DRN-3197681
The complaint
Mr G complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) didnt inform him of a 
corporate action in respect of shares he had purchased which resulted in them losing value 
and him suffering a loss on sale of the shares.
What happened
On 20 April 2020 Mr G purchased a total of 217 shares in Wisdomtree Securities Ltd 1 x 
Daily Short WTI Crude ETF (SOIL) at a price of 121.89 USD per share for 208 shares and 
122.45 for 9 shares. He sold 4 shares on 1 June 2020 for 100.14 USD per share. 
On 30 June 2020 Mr G placed a limit order with a price of 120 USD but his order wasnt 
completed despite the price hitting 120 USD. IISL explained this was because, although the 
market had achieved the price, no electronic quote was available for the trade to be 
executed automatically and that when it attempted to place the trade manually the price had 
moved below his limit price, so the order wasnt executed.  
Mr G subsequently sold the balance of 213 shares on 18 September 2020 for a price of 
71.71 USD per share.
Mr G had noticed a drop in value of his shares before he sold the balance of his shares. This 
was on 3 September 2020 and he contacted IISL about this. He was informed that 
WisdomTree had lifted the stop on creations and provided a link in relation to this which 
showed that on 24 April 2020 it had announced through its website that it was halting 
creations for the shares as well as giving notice through the Regulatory News Service 
(RNS).
Mr G responded to IISL and asked why he hadnt been informed of creations being stopped 
in the first place. IISL responded and said his account was self-managed and as the event 
wasnt a corporate action it doesnt deliver information to each customer. 
This prompted Mr G to complain. He said that that stopping creations constituted a material 
change in the way that SOIL was traded and that IISL would have been notified of the 
change through the RNS and should have passed this information to him. He referred to the 
mobile app it provided which he said had section for regulatory news in relation to SOIL 
through which other information of less importance had been provided to him.
 IISL didnt uphold the complaint. In short it confirmed that stopping creations wasnt a 
corporate event as confirmed by its corporate actions department. It referred to clause 
5.2.15 of its terms of business which sets out what amounts to a corporate event. It said that 
its news information is provided by Morningstar and it hadnt provided information about 
WisdomTree stopping creations for SOIL. It also said it had searched the stock at the 
London Stock Exchange and couldnt find the announcements in respect of SOIL.
There was some further correspondence through which Mr G asked if anyone at IISL had 
been aware of the announcements. IISL confirmed that people had been aware of the 
announcements. Mr G then said that it had an obligation to inform him of any material 
information in relation to an investment decision and had acted against his best interests in 
not providing the information. He also argued that it was a corporate event because it 
involved redemption rights. 
IISL responded repeating that its corporate actions department advised that WisdomTree 
stopping creations for SOIL wasnt considered a corporate event for which it has its own 
definition as set out in its terms of business. It also said that it hadnt been made aware of 
the announcement through its normal information providers. In respect of redemption rights it 
said it would only inform clients regarding this where there was an offer to redeem shares off 
the market for which an election by the client would need to be made.
Mr G then referred his complaint to our service and it was considered by one of our 
investigators, who didnt think it should be upheld. In short, she wasnt satisfied that IISL did 
anything wrong because it hadnt informed Mr G that creations had been halted and she 
noted that this information was available to the general public on WisdomTrees website. 
She also didnt think IISL had done anything wrong in the way it dealt with Mr Gs attempt to 
sell the shares on 30 June 2020.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the assumption by WisdomTree and 
IISL that the halt in creations wouldnt affect the secondary market isnt true. He said this is 
evidenced by the fact his limit order wasnt actioned - as if the buying and selling 
mechanisms had been working normally he would have been able to get an electronic 
quotation and no manual intervention would have been necessary.
Mr G also said that the halt in creations wasnt just on WisdomTrees website but also 
announced via the RNS which would suggest that the announcement was of great 
importance to investors and should have been communicated to them. Even if IISL werent 
informed by its RNS information providers it still had a responsibility to make him aware of 
the announcement.
Mr G said that WisdomTree classified the halting of creations as a corporate action as the 
link address on its announcement makes clear. He also clarified that he wasnt arguing that 
IISL should have informed him in the two-hour window between the announcement and the 
market closing on 24 April 2020. He was saying that it should have informed him in the 
period between the announcement and the restarting of creations in September 2020.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. Mr G then provided a further 
response summarising his arguments. In short he said that the halt in creations was a vital 
announcement for any holder of shares as it would allow them to make an informed decision 
whether to buy or sell. This is shown by it was announced on the RNS and if IISL werent 
made aware of this that is its problem. The event was a corporate action as defined in law 
because WisdomTree labelled it as such and it was in any event a material change to the 
way shares were traded. Mr G has said either IISL hadnt actioned his limit order on 30 June 
2020 properly or the secondary market had been affected by the halt to creations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be helpful if I briefly explained the basic way ETFs operate. In simple terms 
ETFs operate in a primary market and secondary market. The primary market involves 
Authorised Participants (APs) creating and redeeming ETF shares. APs are typically big 
financial institutions. The secondary market is where existing shares are traded on the stock 
market between investors or between the investor and a market maker. Mr Gs purchase and subsequent sale of shares in SOIL was through the secondary market. 
Mr G has argued strongly that IISL should have notified him that WisdomTree was stopping 
creations regarding SOIL and I understand why he feels it should have done so, given the 
apparent drop in the price of SOIL once it restarted creations. However, I am not persuaded 
that IISL were obliged to inform him that creations had been stopped. 
I acknowledge that IISL has confirmed that it was aware at the time that WisdomTree had 
taken this action. Mr G has argued that it was an important announcement in relation to 
those holdings shares as they needed to know this to make an informed decision to buy or 
sell. However, that didnt make it a corporate event and IISL had no general obligation to 
provide information to Mr G about his investments, given he operated a self-managed 
account and the information about WisdomTree was available on its website
What IISL was obliged to do under its terms of business was to use reasonable endeavours 
to provide clients with information about corporate events. I note Mr G has provided a 
definition of corporate action he has obtained from a legal website. But IISL isnt bound by 
that definition but by what is set out in its terms of business. 
Clause 5.2.15 of its terms states as follows:
subject to clause 5.2.24 we will use reasonable endeavours to tell you about any rights 
issue, calls, conversion, subscription or redemption rights and takeover or other offers 
arising from capital re-organisations (Corporate Events) attaching to your investments 
unless we consider it impractical to do so. If you tell us within such period as we specify that 
you wish to exercise any rights arising out of Corporate Events, provided there are sufficient 
Cleared Funds in your Account(s), we will use reasonable endeavours to give effect to your 
instructions but only on such terms as you advise and as are reasonably acceptable to us. 
Otherwise, we will take such action , or refrain from taking any action, as we, in our 
reasonable discretion, determine.
Mr G has argued that the stopping of creations did come within the above clause because it 
involved redemption rights. IISL has said this is where there is an offer to redeem shares off-
market for which an election needs to be made on behalf of a client, which I think makes 
sense. 
But even if redemption rights as referred to in clause 5.2.15 of the terms could be seen as 
being a reference to normal on-market redemptions, the event I am concerned with is 
stopping creations not about redemptions. This is clearly not an event in relation to 
redemption rights for existing shares. I note in any case that the FAQ that accompanied the 
notice that WisdomTree provided on 24 April 2020 specifically stated that redemptions 
wouldnt be affected - the fact that there is reference to redemption in the information doesnt 
mean stopping creations is about redemption rights.  In the circumstances I am satisfied that 
the event the subject of this complaint was not to do with redemption rights.
Mr G has also argued that stopping creations for SOIL was a corporate event as 
WisdomTree considered it as such. He said that it has labelled it as such but it is not referred 
to as a corporate action in the notice on its website or the RNS announcement. The only 
reference to corporate action is in the online address in the link to the RNS announcement 
provided with the notice on WisdomTree website, the address including corp-action.
However, I am not persuaded that the use of corp-action in the link address is enough to 
conclude that WisdomTree was treating it as a corporate action when there is no other 
evidence that shows this.Even if I am wrong and WisdomTree did consider that stopping creations for SOIL was a 
corporate action it still doesnt come within the meaning of corporate event set out in clause 
5.2.15 of the terms of business for IISL. As such I dont think IISL would have seen it as a 
corporate action that it was required to use reasonable endeavours to notify its clients about.
I may have taken a different view if I thought that IISL had been notified that WisdomTree 
was treating it as a corporate action. In that case I think it might be expected that IISL would 
treat it as such, regardless of this not coming within one of the categories of corporate event 
set out in clause 5.2.15 of its terms.
However, in the absence of such notification I dont think it can be said to have done 
anything wrong in not informing Mr G that WisdomTree had stopped creations for SOIL 
when this wasnt something that came within clause 5.2.15 of the terms. I have seen no 
evidence that IISL were informed that stopping creations for SOIL was being treated as a 
corporate action by WisdomTree and it follows that I dont think it did anything wrong in not 
informing him of this.
I have considered what Mr G has said about what happened when he placed a limit order on 
30 June 2020. He argues that either IISL didnt action his limit order as it should have done 
or the secondary market wasnt working  because if it had been he should have received an 
electronic quote and no manual intervention would have been necessary. 
I have seen nothing that suggests IISL didnt action his limit order as it should have done. As 
to why no electronic quote was available for his limit order, its possible that this is for the 
reason he has said - namely that the secondary market was affected by stopping creations 
for SOIL. But I have no way of knowing if this was the reason. And even if it was, and 
WisdomTree was wrong about it having no impact, there is nothing to suggest IISL were 
aware of this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman