DRN-1689608
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC)) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss B was given a SafetyNet facility in September 2015. This was a running credit account 
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
The initial credit limit given to Miss B in September 2015 was £400. The credit limit was then 
increased six times  the last increase being to £910 in January 2017. Miss B stopped using 
the facility in September 2017. 
In October 2017 Miss B informed SNC about her financial difficulties. So, it stopped adding 
interest to the facility and it appears to have come to an agreement with Miss B about 
repaying the facility. Based on the information given to us by SNC it appears an outstanding 
balance remains.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Bs complaint. He thought the checks SNC carried 
out before granting the facility were proportionate and that the information SNC gathered 
about Miss Bs circumstances suggested she would be able to afford the repayments. So, he 
didnt think it was wrong of SNC to offer the facility.
The adjudicator also didnt think the way Miss B used her facility was concerning until
8 February 2016. By this point, the adjudicator didnt think further drawdowns shouldve been 
allowed as he thought Miss B appeared to be struggling to manage her commitments and 
had become reliant on the facility.    
SNC didnt agree with the assessment. It considers that the facility was affordable for       
Miss B when each drawdown was made. SNC also doesnt think there was any objective 
reason to withdraw the credit facility. So, it feels it acted fairly by continuing to offer 
drawdowns and that this was in line with the spirit of regulatory guidance about credit cards. 
Miss B appears to accept what the adjudicator has said.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any  
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were given.Both Miss B and SNC appear to accept that it wasnt unreasonable for the facility to have 
been approved or for the first 21 drawdowns to have been lent (through to February 2016). 
As such, it seems that this lending is no longer in dispute, so I wont be making a finding 
about it.
So instead, this decision will focus on whether SNC did anything wrong when it granted the 
drawdowns from 8 February 2016. But I have kept the other lending in mind when thinking 
about the overall lending relationship between SNC and Miss B.
When SNC agreed the drawdown on 8 February 2016 there was an expectation that it would 
review and monitor how Miss B was using the facility. Indeed, the guidance at the time that 
can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 6.7.2 says;
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties. 
What this means is that it wasnt enough for SNC to just carry out an assessment before the 
facility was approved or where there was an increase in the credit limit. It needed to continue 
to monitor how Miss B used the facility and then step in and provide help when or if it could 
see she was, or was likely, having financial difficulties.
By monitoring, SNC could check whether it was still reasonable for it to believe that Miss B 
would be able to repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period  which is how the 
facility was designed to be used. But if Miss B wasnt using the facility as intended, this could 
indicate to SNC that she was having wider financial problems.
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Miss B to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments, and then when Miss B returned for further borrowing. After all, if Miss B 
was drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from her account this 
ought to have indicated that SNC taking the full payment from Miss Bs account was causing 
her to once again borrow the funds that SNC had just taken. 
Having reviewed the same information that SNC had, I agree with our adjudicator that there 
was clear information which ought to have led SNC to decline Miss Bs request for any 
further drawdowns from 8 February 2016. I think SNC ought to have been reasonably aware 
that by this point Miss B wasnt using the facility in a sustainable manner. Ill explain why. 
The loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation doesnt 
automatically mean that a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. The industry 
regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and that the customer 
should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments 
and without having to borrow further to do so. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Miss B drew down the full credit limit (£400) on 1 September 2015 when the facility started. 
Following a smaller drawdown shortly afterwards, she then repaid the outstanding balance in 
full towards the end of that month. 
In October and November 2015, she continued to take drawdowns and repay the balance in 
full at the end of each month. Although I can see that, on both occasions, Miss B drew down 
further amounts the following day. This also happened twice in December 2016 - a sign that 
she wasnt repaying the outstanding balance sustainably. The monthly amount Miss B borrowed also increased in December 2015 to over £1,500 in total, suggesting she may 
have been becoming more reliant on the facility. 
In January 2016 Miss B took 5 drawdowns before repaying the outstanding balance in full on 
29 January 2016. The following day she drew down a further £730.  
By this point Miss B was borrowing considerably more than her regular income of around 
£1,390. Although I can see she also had credits from a third party of £2,700. From what I 
can see Miss B also received credits into her account from the same party in other months 
although this varied and there didnt seem to be a consistent and regular payment being 
made. And in isolation I dont think this income, which I think SNC could consider (to an 
extent) in its affordably assessment, meant that she was repaying the facility in a sustainable 
way.   
As the adjudicator has pointed out, Miss B also appeared to be relying on short-term loans in 
order to manage her finances. SNC wouldve been aware of this through her bank 
statements. I can see Miss B was generally borrowing increasing amounts. For example, in 
June and July 2015 she borrowed £300, then £750 in October 2015, £1,300 in November 
2015 and £1,000 in December 2015. And shortly before the drawdown on 8 February 2016, 
Miss B borrowed £500. I can also see she continued to make repayments to short-term 
lenders throughout 2016 and into 2017, suggesting to me that she was having problems 
managing her money.   
Looking at everything together, I think there were clear signs that Miss B was having 
financial difficulties, and this was reflected by the fact that she wasnt using the facility as 
SNC intended. So, I agree with the adjudicator that Miss B had most likely become reliant on 
the facility because its most likely she was struggling to maintain control of her finances. 
I think this is something that SNC ought reasonably to have been aware of had it reviewed 
and monitored the facility through the bank statements that it had access to. So, I think that 
by February 2016 there was a clear risk that any further drawdowns were not going to be 
repaid in a sustainable manner.
SNC has said that cancelling the facility wouldnt have been in line with the spirit of 
regulatory guidance about credit cards which raised concern about the cancellation of credit 
cards. Firstly, the SNC facility isnt a credit card and, secondly, in this case I think it wouldve 
been reasonable not to allow further drawdowns and to have allowed Miss B to repay her 
balance over a reasonable period of time  as the facility allowed because SNC shouldve 
been concerned about the way Miss B was using the facility and what it was seeing in her 
bank statements.  
So overall, I think SNC was wrong to allow Miss B to continue to draw down on the facility 
from 8 February 2016
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss B, SNC should:
remove any unpaid interest fees and charges from the current outstanding balance 
and then refund all the interest, fees and charges applied to Miss Bs facility from 8 
February 2016; 
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
then deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the 
above refund is sufficient to repay what Miss B owes, then the remainder of the refund should be paid directly to her.
If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to repay the outstanding principal, then 
SNC and Miss B should try and come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan in 
order to repay what is owed. But Id remind SNC of its obligation to treat Miss B fairly;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file from 8 February 
2016.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Miss B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Robert Walker
Ombudsman