DRN-3289616
The complaint
Miss L complains about the quality of the car she acquired through a conditional sale 
agreement taken out with Moneybarn No.1 Limited t/a Moneybarn in July 2020.
What happened
In July 2020, Miss L took out a conditional sale agreement to buy a used car. She says when 
the car was delivered, there were several issues with it that had not been apparent in the 
photographs shed been sent earlier. Miss L told us:
When the car was delivered to her in July 2020, this was the first time shed actually 
seen the car;
she contacted the dealership within a couple of days because she found a tear in the 
upholstery of the front passenger seat, and it agreed to pay £75 so that the fault 
could be remedied;
a short time later, Miss L contacted the dealership because the air conditioning 
wasnt working properly, and again it accepted there was a fault with it, and it paid 
the costs of remedying the problem;
on 10 August  within two weeks of acquiring the car  Miss L contacted the 
dealership again about damage to the four alloys;
when the car had been delivered it was quite dirty, and it wasnt until shed had it 
cleaned that the damage to the alloys became apparent;
shes received a quote to repair the alloys - £380  but both the dealership and 
Moneybarn wont pay for this work;
she shouldnt have to pay for these repairs as she was misled about the state of the 
car when she signed the paperwork.
Moneybarn rejected this complaint. It said that it doesnt source the vehicles it finances, and 
it was the customers responsibility to thoroughly examine any vehicle prior to finance 
inception. It said that if Miss L had been concerned with the condition of the vehicle at the 
point of purchase, she should have made Moneybarn aware of this at this time.
Moneybarn explained that the damage to the alloys was only cosmetic, and in taking delivery 
of the car, Miss L had accepted the condition of the car at the point of supply.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she though it should be upheld. She 
explained that because the issues with the upholstery and air conditioning had been 
resolved, she was only considering the matter of the damaged alloys.
She said that Miss L told us the car had been dirty when it had been delivered and because 
of this, shed not immediately noticed the state of repair of the four alloys. But she had since 
sent in photographic evidence to support her testimony, and these photographs evidenced 
significant damage to all four alloys.
Our investigator said that although Miss L had signed both the credit agreement and 
handover documents on 25 July, she had not by this point actually seen the car. Shed been 
sent photographs of it by the dealership, but until the car was delivered at the end of July, 
Miss L had not had the opportunity to look at it in any detail. And she found Miss Ls 
testimony about the state of the car to be persuasive  she hadnt noticed the damage to the 
alloys until shed had the car cleaned several days later. She concluded that Miss L had 
likely been misled about the condition of the alloys prior to the delivery of the car. Because of 
this, she said Moneybarn should pay to have the alloys repaired.
Moneybarn said that if the car had been dirty, Miss L shouldve had it cleaned sooner. And 
the fact that shes not yet had the alloys repaired means its likely that theyve since incurred 
further damage, thus increasing the cost of repair.
Our investigator disagreed and sent the photographic evidence to Moneybarn. And she 
asked it to either pay for the repair of the alloys, or approve one of three quotes obtained by 
Miss L.
Moneybarn didnt respond so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to what shes 
already said, and I think shes set out the position very clearly in her view and subsequent 
correspondence.
It's clear that Miss L had not seen the car before she signed the credit agreement; the car 
was delivered to her several days later. So, I dont accept Moneybarns inference in this 
particular case that Miss L shouldve highlighted any issues with the car before she signed 
the conditional sale agreement. I simply do not see how that wouldve been possible.
Miss L raised three issues with the car in the first few days after she took delivery of it  
three things that she says were faulty. Theres no real dispute about the existence of these 
faults, the dealership accepted the first two and paid to have them remedied. And weve all 
seen the photographic evidence of the damaged alloys.
Moneybarn says Miss L wouldve noticed the damage sooner had she cleaned the car 
sooner  but I dont think thats reasonable. I say that because I think its more reasonable 
and more likely that in those first few days of usage, Miss L gradually noticed more about the 
car, perhaps including the fact that it really did need cleaning. And once it had been cleaned, 
the damage to the alloys was visible.
Miss L has been clear and consistent with her testimony and I find it to be plausible and 
persuasive. And Im going to uphold this complaint because Im satisfied that Miss L was 
misled about the condition of the alloys when she acquired this car.
Putting things right
Moneybarn can put things right in one of two ways. It can:
arrange and pay for the repair of the alloys; or
ask Miss L to obtain three separate quotes for the repair of the four alloys - it can 
then authorise and then pay for one of these quotes.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No.1 Limited t/a 
Moneybarn to pay the cost of repairing the alloys.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman