DRN-3292952
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Vitality Health Limiteds decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Ive set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy of which, is 
attached below. In summary, Mr B claimed on his private medical insurance for heart 
palpitations which were later diagnosed as being caused by myocarditis. Vitality noted Mr B 
had suffered with this previously and said that Mr Bs complaint should not be upheld 
because the policy terms classify this as a pre-existing medical condition. I agreed with that 
and so I changed the outcome of our investigators view.
Mr B didnt accept my provisional findings. He didnt provide any new arguments, however, 
he reiterated that the myocarditis was a new condition that hed not previously suffered with 
and that hed been symptom free of heart palpitations for two consecutive years and so 
Vitality should cover his claim. Its now for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to stay with the findings made in my provisional decision. I say that because Im 
not persuaded by Mr Bs arguments in response to it. Ill explain why. 
I should be clear that theres extensive medical history which connects Mr B with on-going 
heart-related problems. Ive seen that hes been treated extensively since 2016 and has 
been under regular care of a cardiologist. The specialist has explained that myocarditis is a 
new condition suffered by Mr B and that it should be covered by the policy. But Im not 
entirely persuaded by that because Ive seen medical evidence from May 2021 which 
suggested, after further investigation, that Mr B may previously had suffered with the 
condition. 
In any event, I dont think its relevant here, because its not the underlying cause of the 
palpitations thats resulted in the declinature for cover, its the symptoms themselves that 
warrant the decline. Mr B had suffered with heart palpitations since 2016. And the way 
Vitalitys terms describe a pre-existing condition to include symptoms, in addition to medical 
conditions, means that theres no cover available. 
Mr Bs policy began on 1 August 2020 but was taken on as a switch moratorium underwritten 
basis, which means the policy effectively began from 1 August 2019. And so, in response to 
Mr Bs argument that hed satisfied the two consecutive years without any symptoms, follow 
ups or investigations, I dont think this happened. I say that because Ive seen that he 
consulted a medical professional about his heart palpitations in May 2021, which was during 
the two consecutive years that he was supposed to be symptom free. Its for these reasons 
that Im not upholding this complaint.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the same reasons explained in my provisional findings.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.[COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION]
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint. Ive decided to change the outcome reached by our 
investigator and not uphold this complaint.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 2 February 2022. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Vitality Health Limiteds decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Mr B had private medical insurance with Vitality. He began suffering heart palpitations in
2016 and sought the advice of his cardiologist. Mr B had suffered with heart-related
problems previously and so has been under the care of the same specialist for some time.
Mr B said the palpitations were caused by a new heart-related problem, thats to say one
hes not experienced before. Mr B said he was diagnosed as having suffered with
myocarditis, which is the basis of his claim.
Vitality said that it declined the claim because theres enough evidence to suggest that this
was a pre-existing medical condition. It accepted this problem isnt related to Mr Bs
hypertension, but it noted that Mr Bs medical records mentioned that hed likely suffered
from myocarditis previously and so it wouldnt cover the cost of this treatment.
Our investigator thought this was unfair. She said that because Mr Ds specialist explained
that this condition isnt related to anything hed previously suffered. And so, because this
was a new problem that hed not experienced previously, she recommended Vitality cover
the treatment costs.
Vitality didnt agree. In summary, it said that Mr D had suffered with palpitations previously
and that there was mention of Mr D having possibly suffered with suspected myocarditis.
And so, its for me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because I think Mr Bs claim is related to a pre-existing medical 
condition. Vitalitys terms describe a pre-existing condition as;
 If you or your insured dependants have a moratorium underwriting basis:
We will not pay for treatment of any medical condition or related condition which in the five
years before your cover start date you:
 have received medical treatment for
 had symptoms of
 have asked advice on or
 to the best of your knowledge were aware existed
This is called a pre-existing medical condition. However, subject to the plan terms and
conditions, a pre-existing medical condition can become eligible for cover provided Mr B
had not:
consulted anyone (e.g. a GP, dental practitioner, optician or therapist, or anyone
acting in such a capacity, for medical treatment or advice (including check ups), or
 taken medication (including prescription or over the counter drugs, medicines,
specialist diets or injections)
For that pre-existing medical condition or any related condition for two continuous years
after your cover start date
Mr B has an extensive history of heart-related problems. Hed previously suffered with
palpitations back in 2016 and again in 2021. I also note hed been hospitalised in 2018
owing to chest pain and had several referrals for heart-related and blood pressure issues in
2016. I accept the argument hes made that the palpitation symptoms he suffered recently
are unrelated conditions, but the policy terms describe a pre-existing condition as anything
that hed suffered symptoms of previously. And so, whether the medical condition, or cause,
is different its not relevant here because of how the policy terms describe a pre-existing
medical condition.
I also note that the most recent condition suffered by Mr B is myocarditis which I accept is
something hed not been diagnosed with previously. But I further note that the specialist
treating Mr B said that there was evidence to suggest that hed suffered with this previously.
Although Mr B may not have been aware of that as he could have been asymptomatic. I
think this further supports my findings that this isnt something that Vitality should cover
because theres evidence suggesting that this is also a pre-existing medical condition and
the terms say that there would be no cover in those circumstances, whether diagnosed or
not.
The investigator commented that the myocarditis is unrelated to Mr Bs hypertension, whichis why she believed the claim should be upheld. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont
agree thats reason enough to uphold this complaint, because of the way the policy terms
describe pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr Bs policy was set up on a moratorium underwriting basis. That meant his pre-existing
medical conditions could potentially have been covered, provided hed gone two consecutive
years without symptoms, but the medical evidence doesnt support that either. And so, Im
satisfied that theres no cover available in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above,
mainly Im persuaded that Mr Bs palpitations qualify as a pre-existing medical condition,
because of the way this is described by Vitalitys policy terms. And so, I dont think theres
cover available in the circumstances. Ill consider any new evidence submitted in response
to my provisional decision, however unless it persuades me otherwise, my final decision will
likely be along these lines.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman