DRN-4095321
The complaint
Mr M complains because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim under his
travel insurance policy for the costs associated with a medical emergency abroad.
Mr Ms complaint has been brought to us by his daughter, as his representative. All 
references to Mr Ms submissions include those of his daughter, where relevant. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf.
What happened
Mr M holds a travel insurance policy, provided by IPA, as a benefit of his bank account.
Unfortunately, Mr M suffered a cardiac arrest and an acute myocardial infarction when
travelling abroad in 2022. He was subsequently admitted to intensive care and incurred
significant medical and other bills.
Mr M made a claim under his policy with IPA. IPA requested details of Mr Ms medical
history from his GP and said the claim was excluded from cover under the terms and
conditions of his policy. IPA said this was because Mr M had a myocardial infarction in April
2005 and an angiography in June 2006 which Mr M hadnt told it about and which it said
were directly linked to the condition claimed for. IPA also said Mr M was taking medication
for hypertension which Mr M hadnt told it about, which was indirectly linked to the condition
claimed for.
Unhappy, Mr M complained to IPA before bringing the matter to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and noted that IPA said it would
have covered Mr Ms pre-existing medical conditions for an additional premium of £54. So,
our investigator said he thought it would be fair and reasonable for IPA to pay Mr Ms claim
but that it could deduct the additional premium which it would have charged from the
settlement.
Mr M accepted our investigators recommendations but said part of a claim for his partners
expenses (who wasnt insured under this policy) remained unresolved. IPA didnt agree with 
our investigators opinion and said Mr M had made a conscious choice not to declare his 
pre-existing medical conditions to it, so it didnt agree that it would be fair for it to settle the 
claim minus the additional premium. As a resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Ms complaint 
was referred to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr Ms complaint in March 2023. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when making my provisional decision about Mr Ms complaint.
Section G of Mr Ms policy provides cover for emergency medical and other expenses in
certain circumstances. But the following is specifically excluded from cover:
1. Any claims arising directly or indirectly as a result of any pre-existing medical
conditions unless you have declared ALL pre-existing medical conditions to us
and we have written to you accepting them for insurance.
The policy defines pre-existing medical condition(s) as:
1. Any past or current medical condition that has given rise to symptoms or for
which any form of treatment or prescribed medication, medical consultation,
investigation or follow-up/check-up has been required or received during the two
years prior to:
a) opening your  account,
b) booking any trip, or
c) upon the annual renewal of your medical health declaration, whichever is the
   later, and
2. Any cardiovascular or circulatory condition (e.g heart condition, high blood
pressure, blood clots, raised cholesterol, stroke, aneurysm) that has occurred at any
time prior to any trip.
Pages 3 and 4 of the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy set out the process to be
followed to declare pre-existing medical conditions to IPA.
Ive listened to two call recordings between Mr M and IPA which took place in November
2021, around the time Mr M booked his trip. During the first of these calls, on 24 November
2021, IPA told Mr M that hed need to call to complete a medical screening if that was
relevant to him. The Confirmation of Insurance Benefits email sent to Mr M on 29
November 2021 also notified Mr M about the policy exclusion relating to pre-existing medical
conditions. In addition, IPA has provided a template copy of a letter which it says is sent to
holders of the bank account which Mr M has every year. This letter provides information
about the pre-existing medical exclusion in the policy and about the process for making a
medical declaration to IPA.
The requirement to disclose pre-existing medical conditions to a travel insurer and undergo a
medical screening prior to travel in order for pre-existing medical conditions to be covered
isnt unusual. And Im satisfied that the requirement for Mr M to notify IPA of any pre-existing
medical conditions which he wanted cover for was clearly and prominently set out to him.
The information which Ive been provided with about Mr Ms previous medical history is, I
think, extremely limited. Ive seen a one-page document entitled Encounter Report which
states that Mr M had an acute myocardial infarction in 2005, and that Mr M was in receipt of
prescriptions in 2021 (when his trip was booked) for medications which are used to treat high
blood pressure.
I understand Mr M disputes that his myocardial infarction in 2005 is directly linked to his
cardiac arrest in 2022 and he says IPA hasnt evidenced that this is the case. According to
Mr M, the myocardial infarction in 2005 was completely repaired with stents in the left side of
his heart and the cardiac arrest in 2022 was confirmed as being unrelated to his existing
stents and was caused by the narrowing of arteries in the right side of his heart only. Its not
for me to reach my own conclusions about Mr Ms medical conditions and/or their causes.
Instead, Ive considered whether I think IPA acted fairly and reasonably based on the
available medical evidence in this case.An insurer is generally entitled to decide the level of risk which it is prepared to accept cover
for in line with its own commercial underwriting criteria, and the fact that Mr M was taking
medication used to treat high blood pressure and had suffered a previous myocardial
infarction is information which IPA wanted to know about, if Mr M wanted cover for these
issues.
Although the available medical information in this case is limited, Im satisfied that the
evidence Ive seen demonstrates that Mr M had a pre-existing medical condition as defined
within his policy, which wasnt declared to IPA. It follows that I think it was reasonable for IPA
to conclude that the exclusion relating to any cardiovascular or circulatory condition that had
occurred at any time applied to Mr M. This means that any claims arising (either directly or
indirectly) from Mr Ms pre-existing medical conditions arent covered under the terms and
conditions of his insurance contract with IPA.
In line with my remit, Ive also thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable for IPA
to accept Mr Ms claim outside of a strict application of the policy terms and conditions
(taking into account any additional premium which IPA may have charged to provide cover
for pre-existing medical conditions). Based on the circumstances of this case, I dont think it
would.
Mr M didnt make any declarations to IPA about his previous medical history and, therefore,
didnt have cover for any claims relating to those issues. So, the risk which IPA was covering
under this policy didnt include claims linked to myocardial infarctions. When making an
independent and impartial decision, I need to be fair to both parties  not just to Mr M. And I
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to now require IPA to retrospectively provide cover
for a risk which it didnt agree to accept before Mr M travelled abroad.
I understand Mr M feels he was repeatedly told by IPA that he had insurance cover during
the telephone calls he made in November 2021. However, Mr Ms medical history wasnt
discussed during these calls, so this doesnt change my decision that Mr Ms claim isnt
covered under his policy. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and I understand he has lost out
financially, but I dont think IPA acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining his claim and I
dont intend to direct IPA to do anything further.
Mr M says part of a claim for his partners expenses also remains unpaid. But Mr Ms partner
wasnt insured under Mr Ms policy, and IPA confirmed this to Mr M before he travelled. Mr
Ms partner made a claim under, and subsequently made a complaint to our service about,
her own travel insurance policy. This isnt something which I have the power to comment
upon within my decision about Mr Ms complaint, which relates solely to whether I think there
is cover for his own claim under his own policy.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. IPA 
accepted my provisional findings but Mr M didnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully read Mr Ms response to my provisional decision and Im genuinely sorry to 
hear about the very difficult circumstances which he has now found himself in as a 
consequence of his claim being declined. Ive addressed below what I think are the key 
additional comments which Mr M has made. I dont agree with Mr Ms submission that Ive made a finding about causation. Instead, I 
made a finding that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for IPA to reach a conclusion that the 
exclusion in question applied to his claim, based on the available medical evidence. 
Even if I accept Mr Ms submissions that he never received the template letter referred to in 
my provisional findings, this wouldnt change my decision that IPA didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably by declining his claim. Mr Ms telephone calls to IPA in November 2021 
werent made for the purpose of making a declaration about his health and the conversations 
werent with the medical screening line, so I wouldnt expect IPA to have asked any 
questions of Mr M about his medical history during those discussions. But, during the first of 
these calls, IPA told Mr M that if he had any medical screening which he needed to complete 
then hed need to call a medical screening line. This information was also set out under the 
heading Important Reminder on the Confirmation of Insurance Benefits sent to Mr M on 29 
November 2021, and Im satisfied that Mr Ms policy terms and conditions clearly outline the 
process which he needed to follow to determine if he needed to make a medical health 
declaration about a pre-existing medical condition which he wanted cover for under his 
policy. I dont think there was anything more IPA needed to do to highlight the policy 
requirements regarding the disclosure of pre-existing medical conditions to Mr M, so the 
onus was on Mr M to make sure he had the level of cover he needed. 
I understand Mr M says there was a time lapse of 18 years between his first myocardial 
infarction and this claim, and that the medications he was taking arent uncommon or 
unusual for a man of his age. I dont dispute either of these submissions. But whats relevant 
here is that IPA wanted to know certain information about Mr Ms medical history if he 
wanted cover for certain pre-existing medical conditions. Im satisfied that IPA clearly and 
prominently highlighted this to Mr M. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances to ask IPA to now pay a claim (or part of a claim) for a risk which it didnt 
agree to provide cover for  that isnt how insurance policies like this one work. I wish Mr M 
all the best for the future and I sincerely hope his current situation improves, but I dont think 
his claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy and I dont think IPA acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining his claim.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman