DRN-3657862
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc provided him with incorrect information when he took 
a new loan.
What happened
Mr J applied to Santander for a loan in January 2022. Part of the new loan was to be used to 
repay an existing loan Mr J also held with Santander.
During the new loan application process, Mr J says Santander told him to cancel the direct 
debit in favour of the existing loan  which he did. But Mr J later received a letter saying he 
needed to pay £428.79 (one months payment) towards the old loan as it had not been 
repaid in full. Unhappy about this, Mr J complained to Santander.
Santander didnt agree that Mr J had been told to cancel his direct debit. It said that its 
normal for the loan amounts (when part of the funds are being used to repay an existing 
loan) to be calculated to allow for a final payment to be made to the existing loan on the next 
due date  in this case, 1 February 2022. But as the direct debit had been cancelled, 
Santander said Mr J owed £428.79 and it didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with the response, Mr J referred his complaint to this service. He said Santander 
had made a mistake as it told him to cancel his direct and that he is now out of pocket by 
£428.79.
One of our investigators looked into it. But - on balance, given the evidence available he 
wasnt persuaded Mr J had been given incorrect information by Santander. And he was 
satisfied that the redemption figure provided on the original loan was given on the basis that 
a further direct debit payment was due. 
Mr J didnt accept this outcome. So, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I know Mr J 
will be disappointed as Ive seen that he feels strongly that he was told to cancel the direct 
debit and that his loan had been repaid in full. So, Ill explain why.  
I think the first thing to set out is that  like the investigator, Ive found that Santander has 
provided sufficient evidence to show that when Mr J was given the redemption figure to 
repay his old loan, the amounts were based on one further monthly payment being made to 
the existing loan. And that payment  due on 1 February 2022, wasnt made as the direct 
debit had been cancelled by Mr J. The investigator has previously set out the details, so I 
wont repeat them here. 
There does seem to be some further confusion as I can see that Mr J has said that £428.79 
was paid to the existing loan in February 2022. And that if he pays it again, hell be out of 
pocket. But Ive seen evidence to show that this payment was returned unpaid as the direct 
debit had been cancelled. 
Overall, having reviewed the breakdown of the loan figures and loan statements, Im 
satisfied that an outstanding monthly payment of £428.79 is due to be paid so that the 
existing loan is fully repaid and closed. 
But Mr J says he was told to cancel the direct debit and - as this was Santanders mistake, it 
is responsible for clearing the outstanding balance now owed. But Santander has disputed 
that Mr J was given incorrect information. So, Ive thought carefully about this. 
I can see that Mr J is concerned that this service hasnt asked the staff member who dealt 
with the new loan application, about was discussed at the time. But as an informal service, 
its not our role to question individual members of staff. However, Santander has provided us 
with evidence of the investigation it completed when looking into Mr Js complaint. And this 
included contacting the staff member for his recollection of the events. I have reviewed what 
the staff member said, and Im satisfied he disputes giving Mr J the wrong information. 
So here, Mr J and Santanders staff member have provided different versions of what was 
said about the direct debit payment for the existing loan. Where there is a dispute about 
what was said, my role is to decide what I think most likely happened given all the evidence 
available to me. 
As mentioned above, Im satisfied that the figures generated for the redemption of the 
existing loan were based on one further direct debit payment being taken on                         
1 February 2022. Santander has also provided its laid down internal procedures for dealing 
with a Contra loan (when a new loan is taken, and part of the funds are used to repay an 
existing loan). This shows that the direct debit is cancelled when the existing loan is closed. 
And that the existing loan isnt closed until 28 days after the final payment is made. So, Im 
satisfied that the procedures dont require the account holder to cancel the direct debit.  
In light of the above - on balance, I think its most likely that Santander told Mr J that the 
direct debit for the existing loan would be cancelled when the final payment had been made 
and the loan had been closed. 
I can see Mr J is unhappy as he feels he is being called a liar. So, I want to reassure him 
that that isnt the case. I appreciate that a lot of information would have been discussed 
when he was in the branch making arrangements for a new loan and repaying his existing 
loan. So, its possible that Mr J simply mis-heard or mis-understood what needed to happen. 
But overall, I havent seen enough to make me think he was given wrong information.
Even if I was persuaded that wrong information had been given, it still stands that one further 
payment is rightfully due to fully repay Mr Js existing loan and Im satisfied that he needs to 
pay it. 
So, I urge Mr J to contact Santander to arrange payment of £428.79 in settlement of the 
original loan and to prevent any further action being taken by Santander. Once this has been 
made, Santander has confirmed the original loan will be closed and further correspondence 
in relation to that loan will cease.
   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman