DRN-1711821
 
The complaint
Miss E complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) provided her with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened 
Miss E complained about two instalment loans she took out with Lending Stream.
Heres a table showing loan details:
 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 04/07/2018 09/08/2018 6 £130.00 £56.16
2 24/08/2018 Not Paid 6 £600.00 £204.13
 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss E and Lending Stream told us about these 
loans. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Es 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Miss E for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the information Miss E provided or 
the information Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Miss E had told Lending Stream. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Es complaint.  
Miss E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
Miss E mainly said that she didnt feel our adjudicator had properly taken into account all the 
evidence which included her other financial commitments at the time as well as her income 
and spending and the fact that shed been discharged from a debt relief order. 
What I've decided - and why Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Miss E with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So 
Lending Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Miss E before providing it. Our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding 
Miss Es complaint. Heres why I say this.
Lending Stream says it agreed to Miss Es application after carrying out proper and 
proportionate affordability checks. This included asking Miss E to declare her income and tell 
Lending Stream what she spent on other monthly outgoings such as food, household bills 
and other payments. 
Lending Stream also asked Miss E about any other credit expenses. On top of this, Lending 
Stream assumed shed have some extra spending as well and made allowance for this when 
working out what it felt Miss E could afford to borrow. 
Lending Stream says the information it gathered about Miss E showed that these loan 
balances shouldve been affordable for her - and in these circumstances it was reasonable 
to lend.  
Ive looked at each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to lend Miss E loan 1. This was her first loan with 
Lending Stream and so I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information Miss E 
provided. This suggested that she was well able to afford this borrowing (even after Lending 
Stream upwardly revised her likely monthly spending). 
There wasnt anything else shown in the checks Lending Stream did that suggested 
otherwise. The defaults on her credit report dated back more than a year earlier. And her 
debt relief order (which is intended to help people manage their debt when theyve had 
money problems) had ended around three months earlier. At this early stage, Miss E didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. 
And I cant see that there was anything in the information Miss E provided or the information 
Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant that Lending Stream shouldve taken 
steps to verify the information Miss E had declared. 
So I dont uphold Miss Es complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Miss E took out the second loan quite soon after paying loan 1  and it was for a lot more 
money than loan 1. But I dont think that was enough to make Lending Stream think that it 
shouldnt have kept lending to Miss E. 
Lending Stream asked Miss E to update the information she provided about her finances 
each time she applied for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable 
for Miss E. 
There wasnt anything to indicate to Lending Stream that Miss E had found it hard to 
manage the loan repayments for loan 1  or that paying for this loan was likely to become a 
problem. 
So I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to uphold Miss Es complaint about loan 2.
Looked at overall, bearing in mind the amount of the total monthly repayments she had to 
make for each of her loans, the questions Lending Stream asked Miss E and keeping in 
mind that these were Miss Es first two loans, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending 
Stream to rely on the level of information Miss E was providing.
Ive taken into account everything Miss E has said, including her comments sent in response 
to our adjudicators opinion. Im sorry she feels our adjudicator didnt investigate the 
complaint thoroughly or explain her view as well as she couldve done. Id like to reassure 
Miss E that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator.
I think its reasonable to say that Lending Stream was entitled to decide Miss Es lending 
applications based on the information it had available at the time. 
And its lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the information it relied 
on when deciding whether to provide these loans.  
I accept that in reality Miss Es financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream says it obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to 
Miss E. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Miss E has been hoping for  but I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman