DRN-1210066
 
The complaint
Mr F says that he was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander). 
What happened
In 1991 Mr F applied for a mortgage with Santander. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy to protect his mortgage repayments if Mr F lost his job or was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he thought the paperwork 
completed at the time made it clear the policy was optional and thought it provided a suitable 
benefit. 
Mr F disagrees. He says it wasnt made it clear the policy was optional and he didnt need 
it. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
The policy was taken out at the same time Mr F got his mortgage. Santander had to make it 
clear the PPI was optional and not a condition of the mortgage. Mr F says this wasnt done 
but hasnt given us much detail about what was said when he took out the mortgage to make 
him think this. But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive 
relied more on what the documents from the time show and what I think is most likely to 
have happened.
Santander has given us a copy of the PPI application form Mr F completed at the time the 
policy was sold. On it I can see that taking PPI is recommended and the application for it is 
entirely separate from the mortgage application. The premium payments were also taken 
separately from the mortgage. So overall I think it is likely Mr F wouldve understood he had 
a choice in taking the policy and that it was separate from the mortgage as that is how it was 
presented in the paperwork. And I think Mr F chose to take PPI because he wanted the 
cover. 
This was an advised sale of PPI. What this means is that Santander not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr F could make an 
informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI 
that the policy was suitable for Mr Fs needs and circumstances.I dont know if Santander took all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr F for the following reasons:
 
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr F says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay and had 
savings he could use to make his mortgage payments if he couldnt work. But the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and savings and for potentially longer 
covering his mortgage payments for up to 24 months per claim if Mr F was too sick to 
work or lost his job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr F in his circumstances 
especially considering he was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments I think 
Mr F wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr F at the time and 
if he decided he no longer wanted the policy he could cancel it. 
 
I also need to consider whether Santander gave Mr F information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if Santander gave all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr F 
has told us about his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI 
policy if hed been given all the proper information at the time of sale.
This means Mr F isnt any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Santander. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman