DRN-1657253
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with CIS General Insurance Limited's (CIS) cash settlement 
proposal following a subsidence claim under their buildings insurance policy.
When I refer to CIS, I'm also referring to any of their appointed agents or representatives. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K noticed some cracks internally and externally to their house in October 2016. 
They notified CIS as they wanted to make a claim under their buildings insurance policy. At 
the same time, Mr and Mrs K appointed a loss assessor (LA) to manage the claim on their 
behalf. 
CIS sent their expert to Mr and Mrs K's house to undertake an initial site investigation. A trial 
pit and boreholes were dug, and soil samples were taken for analysis. The results of the site 
investigation confirmed Mr and Mrs K had a valid claim for subsidence damage, as a result 
of clay shrinkage at the house. This had been caused by an oak tree outside of
Mr and Mrs K's boundary and was confirmed by a subsequent arborist report. 
The oak tree was owned by Mr and Mrs K's local authority, and agreement was needed from 
them to remove the tree. While CIS were in contact with the local authority, they continued to 
monitor Mr and Mrs K's house for movement. It wasn't until October 2017 that the local 
authority agreed to remove the tree.
Once the tree was removed, CIS continued to monitor Mr and Mrs K's house to ensure it 
was stabilising and the cracks weren't getting worse. The monitoring continued until
June 2018, with the agreement of Mr and Mrs K's LA. The final reading showed that the 
house had stabilised, so repairing the house could now be discussed. 
CIS sent their expert to Mr and Mrs K's house to assess the repair work needed and to put 
together a Schedule of Works (SoW). Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with the expert's conduct 
during his visit and told their LA that they no longer wanted to be involved with the expert. 
Because of this, CIS sent the SoW to Mr and Mrs K along with a cash settlement offer of 
£6,586.35 to enable them to complete the work themselves. 
Mr and Mrs K's LA wasn't happy with this. He said the amount was too low and provided two 
estimates that he'd arranged for himself. Both of these estimates were in excess of £23,000. 
The LA said CIS should agree to the cheaper of the two estimates to enable the work to be 
carried out. CIS didn't agree to this as they felt there were additional items included in the 
two estimates that weren't caused by subsidence. They re-confirmed their original offer. 
The LA asked if CIS would be willing to pay for a quantity surveyor to visit Mr and Mrs K's 
house to prepare a further SoW and a report. CIS agreed to this. The surveyor visited and 
provided his SoW with an estimate for the repairs in excess of £26,000. CIS considered 
this and increased their original cash settlement offer to £7,611.35. They also asked the LA 
to provide a report or some commentary from the quantity surveyor to confirm why several additional repairs had been included in the SoW. CIS said that, once that information had 
been provided, it would consider it. 
The LA complained to CIS, on behalf of Mr and Mrs K. He was unhappy that CIS wouldn't 
revise their cash settlement. He was also unhappy with a delay Mr and Mrs K had 
experienced when an email hadn't been replied to in the expected time. CIS didn't uphold 
the complaint in regard to the cash settlement. They explained that the work could be 
arranged for the amount offered, and they were only required to pay Mr and Mrs K the 
amount it would take CIS to have the repairs completed for. They did apologise for not 
replying to the email, and paid Mr and Mrs K £50 compensation for this.
The LA brought the complaint to our service. He said that the cash settlement offered was 
too low and the surveyor's SoW confirmed that. He wanted the cash settlement increased. 
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He said that CIS had asked for additional 
information from the surveyor which hadn't been provided. So, he said their original cash 
settlement offer was reasonable. He also said the £50 compensation for the delay was a fair 
offer.
Mr and Mrs K didn't agree, so they requested a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I won't be asking CIS to 
do anything more. I'll explain why.
CIS have accepted Mr and Mrs K's claim for subsidence. So, all I need to make a decision 
on is the cash settlement they have offered, and whether it's reasonable. And in these 
circumstances, I think it is. 
Mr and Mrs K's building insurance policy explains how CIS can settle claims. They can offer 
their contractors to repair the damage, or they can offer Mr and Mrs K a cash settlement, if 
they'd like to use their own contractors. But CIS only have to offer Mr and Mrs K what it 
would cost CIS to have the repairs completed by their approved contractors. 
Mr and Mrs K's LA feels the settlement offered is too low and doesn't think the work can be 
carried out for that amount. The rates that CIS have agreed with their contractors are 
commercially sensitive and a business decision for them. They don't have to disclose those 
rates to their customers. But our service does expect all repairs carried out to be lasting and 
effective ones. The LA believes that the cracks will only be filled and painted over and will 
reappear in the future. But there isn't anything in the SoW from CIS to suggest that to be the 
case. And were it to happen, Mr and Mrs K would be able to go back to CIS about it ad ask 
that it's rectified. 
The LA also feels that CIS should accept the quantity surveyor's SoW as they agreed to it 
being completed. But from what I've seen from both parties, the surveyor was also asked to 
provide a report alongside the SoW. And this report has never been done. CIS have said 
they are willing to consider if any of the additional works on the surveyor's SoW are 
warranted if the surveyor provides his report to confirm why they have arisen as a result of 
subsidence. I think that's reasonable. But without that report or any other evidence to 
suggest additional work is needed due to the subsidence, that isn't included in the SoW 
completed by CIS' expert, I can't say that CIS are treating Mr and Mrs K unfairly. 
CIS have paid Mr and Mrs K £50 compensation for the delay in not responding to an email. 
That's fair in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs K now need to decide whether to accept the cash settlement offered by CIS, so they can get their house repaired, or they need to ask 
their LA to get the report completed by the quantity surveyor. Whatever they decide, they will 
need to let CIS know directly.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold this complaint. CIS General Insurance Limited aren't 
required to do anything else in regard to this claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman