DRN-3070869
The complaint
Ms B says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms B took out an 18-month instalment loan from Loans 2 Go on 9 September 2020. It was
for £400 and the monthly repayments were £91.42. The total repayable was £1645.56. Ms B 
says she didnt understand the terms and how high the interest rate was due to her personal 
circumstances, and when she lost her job she couldnt afford the repayments.
Our adjudicator found that the loan should not have been given. She said Loans 2 Go had
completed proportionate checks but hadnt made a fair lending decision based on the 
information it gathered. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed saying its checks showed the loan was affordable for Ms B, and the 
majority of the adverse information on Ms Bs credit file was well over a year old and so 
should be considered historic. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Ms B required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Ms B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Ms B. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Ms Bs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Ms B before it approved the loan. It
asked for her monthly income and expenditure. It completed income verification
with a third party to check her minimum income and adjusted her declared expenditure to
ensure it was reasonable. It checked Ms Bs credit file to understand her existing monthly
credit commitments and credit history. I cant see it asked about the purpose of the loan.
From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Ms B had sufficient disposable income
to afford the loan.
I think the checks Loans 2 Go carried out were proportionate given the size and term
of the loan, but I dont think it made a fair lending decision based on the information it 
gathered. 
Loans 2 Go argues that given the nature of the lending it is reasonable to expect to see 
some adverse information on an applicants credit file. And the majority of negative 
information on Ms Bs file was well over a year old and so should be considered as historic. 
I disagree. Whilst I accept some adverse data is not a reason to automatically decline an 
application, I think in this case there were indications that Ms B was most likely still having 
problems managing her money and that her finances were under some stress. So there was 
a risk she would be unable to sustainably repay this loan.  At the time of her application 
Ms B had two unsettled County Court Judgements, the most recent for £789 was registered 
nine months previously. She also had £1,191 in defaulted debt outstanding. And she was 
more than six months in arrears on a public utility account, a priority bill. So I dont think it 
was fair to conclude Ms Bs finances were stable and under no pressure.
As the investigator said, giving the loan also increased Ms Bs monthly credit commitments 
to a significant proportion of her monthly income increasing the likelihood that Ms B would 
struggle to maintain the loan repayments over an 18-month period. I think Loans 2 Gos 
lending decision focused solely on the pounds and pence affordability, and didnt take into 
account whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Ms B. 
It follows that I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give the loan to Ms B.
Putting things rightI think its fair and reasonable for Ms B to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
As Loans 2 Go has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debt back, then
it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Ms B
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Bs loan account will result in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Ms Bs loan account will result in there being an outstanding capital 
balance Loans 2 Go should work with Ms B to agree an affordable repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Bs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman