DRN-4370222
The complaint
Mr S complains about Covea Insurance plcs delays and poor handling of his subsidence 
claim under his landlord property insurance policy. 
Any reference to Covea in this final decision includes its respective agents unless specified 
otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved, so Ive 
summarised what Ive found to be the key points.
In August 2022, Mr S made a subsidence claim on his landlord property insurance. In 
September 2022 Coveas appointed contractors attended Mr Ss property to report 
on the damage. Mr S says he spent several months chasing Covea for the report 
outcome and only received this after raising a formal complaint in November 2022. 
Covea upheld the complaint and offered Mr S compensation which he accepted. 
Covea accepted Mr Ss subsidence claim and Mr S says he was told by Covea that 
mitigation and repair works would take place between January and May 2023.
Mr S says the works didnt go ahead as planned and instead he spent more time 
continually chasing Covea for an update receiving very little or no response. Mr S 
therefore raised another complaint with Covea in April 2023 regarding the poor 
communication and lack of claim progress since he last complained to it. 
Covea accepted its communication had been poor and that it had failed to progress 
the claim as quickly as it should have. It offered £75 compensation to Mr S.
Unhappy with this, Mr S complained to this service. He wanted Covea to ensure the 
works went ahead promptly and to increase the compensation, given the impact he 
says the unresolved subsidence would have on his mortgage and the upset caused.
Our Investigator said that as certain complaint points, such as the impact on 
mortgage payments and ongoing issues with the claim hadnt yet been raised or 
responded to by Covea, they couldnt be considered under this complaint but could 
be raised and potentially looked into separately on Mr Ss request.
In relation to what he could look at, our Investigator told Mr S he would only be 
considering the compensation offered by Covea for its delays and poor 
communication during the time period covered by the second final response letter it 
issued to him (January to May 2023). 
In doing so, he concluded the compensation Covea offered for this period should be 
increased from £75 to £200 to fairly recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr S during that time. And that it should progress the claim in a timely 
manner going forward. 
Mr S accepted our Investigators findings, but Covea didnt respond. The case has 
therefore been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute between the parties, that during the period thats been considered 
in this case (January to May 2023), Covea failed to progress Mr Ss claim in as timely 
a manner as it should have. Its communication was also poor, resulting in Mr S 
having to spend notable amounts of time chasing Covea for responses and a 
resolution to his claim.
I understand that certain specialist reports were required to progress the claim and 
Covea say that delays in obtaining these have affected the overall progress made.
Arguably, subsidence claims can be a lengthier process by nature. But in this case, 
Im persuaded from what Ive seen, that Coveas actions have added to this, causing 
Mr S a level of unnecessary upset, inconvenience and delay. 
Coveas last update to this Service about the timeline of Mr Ss claim is that it was 
liaising with the relevant parties to get it back on track. Covea is required to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it must therefore progress Mr Ss claim in a reasonable 
and timely manner going forward.
Based on the information I have, and without further comment from Covea that 
persuades me otherwise, I agree with our Investigator that in relation to the period in 
question, the £75 already offered by Covea doesnt fairly reflect the impact of its poor 
communication and delays in this case. 
From what Ive seen, Covea led Mr S to believe works would take place during an 
agreed period and it seems this never transpired, with little to no communication as 
to why or when this would likely happen. And by Coveas own admission, the claim 
has moved slower than it should have. 
With all that in mind, Im satisfied that its fair to increase the compensation from £75 
to £200 in total for the time period I can consider in this case as set out above. Covea 
should therefore pay this amount to Mr S if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Covea Insurance plc must pay Mr S a total of £200* compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
*Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman