DRN-2419596
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the information Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) gave 
when they requested a payment deferral (payment holiday) on their mortgage due to the 
coronavirus pandemic. They also complain about delays when they asked Halifax for an 
extension to the payment deferral in June 2020.
Mr M has led the complaint throughout. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a mortgage with Halifax. Mr M asked for a payment deferral on their 
mortgage in March 2020 as his and Mrs Ms income had reduced due to the coronavirus 
pandemic and first national lockdown. 
He asked what impact this would have on the mortgage and was told the future payments 
would increase by around £7 following the three-month payment deferral period. The 
payment deferral was applied for April, May and June 2020. Mr and Mrs M were later told 
that the increase to their monthly payments would be around £40 a month.
In June 2020, Mr M called Halifax to ask for a further payment deferral and was told that it 
was in talks with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), about this and to call 
back later once it had more information.
Mr M complained. He said that the government announced that borrowers could have further 
help and that Halifax was causing unnecessary stress by not giving him a clear answer. 
Halifax responded to the complaint. It said that the delay was caused as it was creating an 
online platform to support the large number of requests and to explain the impact of further 
payment deferrals to customers. Halifax acknowledged it provided incorrect information 
about the impact on future payments in March and offered £200 compensation for this. It 
offered a further £50 compensation for the time taken to respond to the complaint in writing.  
Mr M remained unhappy and referred this complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld so Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Impact of first payment deferral
When a payment deferral is in place, no payments are made and so the mortgage balance 
doesnt decrease like it should. More interest is incurred, which is added to the balance. At 
the end of the deferral period payments resume, but the balance is higher, and the term 
remains the same so payments will increase from what they were prior to the payment 
deferral.
Due to the exceptional nature of the coronavirus pandemic, the guidance issued by the FCA 
permitted lenders to agree payment deferrals to provide borrowers financial relief and for the 
missed interest payments to be added to the mortgage balance and then spread across 
monthly payments once the deferral ends. This is a process called auto-capitalisation. 
Lenders should explain the consequences of this, and if the borrower doesnt want that, 
should agree alternative ways of making up the missed payments.
Ive listened to the call where Mr M asked for the payment deferral and Halifax explained the 
process and said that when payments start again, they will be higher. Mr M asked how 
much, and the adviser on the call said they would do a really really, rough estimate and, 
based on the remaining term of the mortgage and current interest payments, worked out that 
it would cost around an additional £7 per month. This wasnt right. I think its likely that this 
rough calculation only took account of the missed interest payments, rather than the actual 
missed payments over the three-month deferral period, and associated interest. 
But I think Halifax adequately explained the process and said that as there was still a long 
term on the mortgage, Mr M could get in touch later to make readjustments - such as 
extending his term if he found the increase in monthly payments too much. If Mr M has 
alternative suggestions for paying back the deferred payments or would like to explore 
options such as extending the term, he can discuss this with Halifax.
Regardless of how the mistake was made - its clear that Halifax made one when it told Mr M 
his payments would only increase by about £7 per month. Its acknowledged this and offered 
£200 compensation for this. Having thought carefully about this, I think this offer is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Whilst I accept it gave Mr and Mrs M a false idea of the impact of the payment deferral, this 
was a mistake and I dont think that Halifax is bound by this sum it made it clear that this 
was a very rough figure. And payments didnt start again in July as a further three-month 
deferral was taken. In this time, Halifax provided accurate information about the impact of 
the total six-month payment deferral on future mortgage payments. So, Mr and Mrs M are 
now aware of the payments required each month to make this up.
Consent from joint party
Mr M also says that Mrs M would not have agreed to pay an extra £40 when taking the 
payment deferral, and they could have looked at other options. Hes questioned why he was 
able to apply for the deferral without Halifax seeking consent from Mrs M. The guidance 
issued by the FCA was to allow payment deferrals to be taken with minimal formality  
meaning the process should be quick, light touch and designed to support borrowers. This 
was a joint mortgage and so there wasnt a requirement for Halifax to gain consent from 
Mrs M and from the information Ive seen, there were no further reasons for it to contact 
Mrs M before approving the payment deferral.  
I understand the point that Mr M is making  neither he nor his wife agreed to this increase 
of £40 a month and had they known it would be this much, they may have considered other 
options, such as borrowing money from family. I can appreciate why they say this now, but in 
the call, Mr M said they were going to struggle to meet the payments and didnt suggest 
other alternatives. So, I dont think that Halifax treated them unfairly here. Im also aware that 
Mr and Mrs M took a further payment deferral and although this must have been a difficult 
time, Im not persuaded they would have done anything differently if they were told the 
correct increase of around £40 at the time. If they would like to discuss other options to 
address these payments  Mr and Mrs M can contact Halifax directly. Extension of the payment deferral
Following a government announcement to say lenders would be extending help to borrowers 
at the beginning of June 2020, Mr M called Halifax to ask for a further payment deferral on 
his mortgage. Halifax said it was in talks with the FCA and was waiting for instructions from 
senior staff, so asked Mr M to call back later when it had more information. I can appreciate 
this was frustrating for Mr M but this call was made before the guidance was issued, and so I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax not to provide an answer at this point. 
The further guidance was issued by the FCA on 4 June 2020. This guidance extended 
payment deferrals on mortgages by a further three months  for a total of six months. It 
differed slightly to the first as it asked lenders to provide more information about payment 
deferrals and the impact of them on a borrowers mortgage. It also permitted lenders to ask 
for information they consider necessary in order to offer an alternative to a payment deferral 
that is in the customers best interests  provided this did not cause undue delay. 
Mr M made two further calls to Halifax around the beginning of June to ask for an extension 
to his payment deferral and was told to call back once it had more information. It must have 
been worrying not to have a clear answer. Halifax says the delay was due to it putting a 
system in place to try to make this easier for borrowers and provide more information on the 
impact of deferrals in line with the guidance. I dont think this is unreasonable  it seems to 
me that Halifax was trying to streamline this process for customers. 
And given the pressure on lenders and significant call volumes at this particular period of 
time, combined with the challenge of remote working, I think some delay was inevitable. 
Halifax contacted Mr M on 17 June to let him know his request for a further payment deferral 
had been approved.
Ultimately, whilst I dont think Halifax needed to wait for their online system to be up and 
running before giving Mr and Mrs M an answer, they were still within their payment deferral 
in June. And they received confirmation that this would be extended for the following three 
months with enough time before their July payment needed to be paid. So overall, I dont 
think Halifax has treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly here.
Halifax also apologised for the delay in responding to the complaint in writing and paid an 
extra £50 in recognition for this. I think this is fair considering the trouble and upset caused 
to Mr M in chasing up this response. 
Conclusions
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but I dont uphold this 
complaint. Having considered everything, I find the total offer of £250 paid by Halifax is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances and so I wont be directing it to do anything further 
here. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman