DRN-1588241
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited failed under his home emergency insurance 
policy to correctly diagnose the cause of a leak in his conservatory. This meant his property 
suffered further damage, and Mr C and his wife suffered distress and inconvenience.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a conservatory at their house. Within the conservatory, a pipe ran down 
the wall from the house gutters and into the house drainage system. The pipe was 
concealed behind plasterboard boxing.
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs C suspected the pipe behind the wall was leaking and called on 
Aviva under their home emergency policy. Avivas engineer thought the problem lay with the 
gutter. He didnt investigate what was happening at the foot of the downpipe and the drain it 
fed into.
He said the gutters werent covered by Mr Cs policy and so there wasnt anything he could 
do. His report says:
Found guttering down pipe blocked and overflowing in conservatory boxing, checked policy 
and [customer] isn't covered, no further work."
Mr C had his gutters cleaned and examined and no defects were found. In June 2019 he 
experienced a period of heavy rain, and the leaking in the conservatory became a problem. 
He contacted Aviva who sent the same engineer back the following morning. His report of 
this visit is as follows:
[Customer] has gutter downpipes behind boxing in conservatory, downpipe is backing up 
from drainage and spilling over at the top of the downpipe causing damage in the 
conservatory, downpipe loaded from the bottom, advised [Customer] that rainwater guttering 
and down pipes are not covered but the rainwater drainage might be as is a grey area under 
the policy.
Rang [Aviva] and advised [another contractor] has been out previously and stated 
the downpipe not blocked and the top joint is the problem.
But as I stated the whole pipe is loaded from the external drainage which can only happen if 
there is a blockage.
Agent at [Aviva] conceded and booked in for emergency drainage engineer as issue is 
causing damage to the interior of the conservatory and leak is uncontrollable while it's 
raining.
Advised [Customer] that they will get a phone call within 2hrs to book follow on for drainage.The engineer left in the morning, and Mr C spoke to Aviva before lunchtime. It said it couldnt 
arrange for a drainage engineer to visit before the following morning. So for the rest of that 
day and overnight Mr and Mrs C had to try to minimise further damage by collecting water in 
buckets.
A drainage engineer arrived at 9.10 the following morning. Mr C says he identified the 
problem was a drain blocked with moss from the roof. He says the drainage engineer took 
the down pipe off and cleared the drain by drilling down and clearing the blockage using a 
drill and springs. He made a temporary repair where the down pipe entered the drain. Aviva 
later returned and effected a permanent repair. The drainage engineers report says:
Arrived to find internal flooding in conservatory from internal rain water down pipe, drains 
water down then removed down pipe, used drill and springs to clear, cause moss from Roof, 
look see after all ok.
Mr C complained to Aviva. He said the engineer on the first visit had failed to diagnose the 
problem correctly, with the result that further damage was caused, and the plasterboard 
boxing needed to be replaced. He also said the drainage engineer told him he could have 
attended Mr C the same day he reported the further damage.
Aviva didnt accept his complaint. It didnt think there had been any errors on its part in 
attending and trying to resolve the issue.
When its engineer attended in March 2019, he correctly told Mr C that his policy didnt cover 
issues for a downpipe or guttering. Mr C then hadnt made Aviva aware of any further issues 
with the downpipe and guttering until he called on it in June 2019. By this time the damage 
to the plasterboard was already present.
Although it thought the issues were with the downpipe and guttering, it had agreed to clear 
the blockage as a gesture of goodwill.
Aviva said visits were arranged centrally. It didnt agree the drainage engineer could have 
been sent sooner, and it was wrong of him to suggest this.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He thought the two 
incidents in March and June 2019 were linked, and evidence of the same fault. He thought 
the evidence from the engineers reports, and what Mr C had said, was that moss from the 
gutters had come down the downpipe and into the drain where it had caused a blockage.
Although downpipes and gutters werent covered by the policy, blocked drains were. If the 
engineer had correctly identified the issue on his first visit, it could have been dealt with then. 
If it had been, the further damage to the plasterboard wouldnt have happened and  Mr and 
Mrs C would have been spared dealing with the problem of water ingress.
Aviva had dealt with the removal of the blockage. But he thought it should replace the 
plasterboard, or pay for it to be replaced, and pay Mr C £150 as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Aviva had caused.
Aviva didnt accept the investigators recommendation and asked that the complaint be 
reviewed. So it has been passed to me to issue a decision.
My provisional findingsI issued my provisional view to Aviva and to Mr C on 15 January 2020. In it I said that after 
the first visit of Avivas engineer in March 2019, Mr C had asked an independent engineer to 
investigate the issue, which he did on 21 March 2019, at a cost to Mr C of £90. Mr C had 
produced a copy of his report which said:
Took apart rain water down pipe in conservatory to check flows with garden hose. Blocked 
further downstream, possibly towards soakaway in back garden. Left quotation to return with 
100 machine to attempt to restore flows.
I asked the investigator to send this to Aviva and point out that it seemed to support Mr C 
when he said he watched Avivas engineer drill down into the drain below ground level to 
clear the blockage. So although there may have been some blockage of the downpipe, it 
seemed there was also blockage of the drainage below ground.
Aviva responded to say, in summary, that:
the report confirmed the independent engineer took apart the rain water downpipe to 
check the flow;
this visit was after Aviva had told Mr C a few weeks before that the rainwater 
downpipe was not covered;
Mr C then didnt contact Aviva for another 3 months;
when it attended again in June 2019 Avivas engineer stated the problem was with 
the same downpipe; and
the report wasnt conclusive, as the independent engineer didnt resolve the problem 
and Avivas engineer attended after this time.
 
I also asked Mr C why he hadnt gone back to Aviva and shown it the report he 
had obtained. I said he didnt seem to have done anything further, or gone back to Aviva 
until the severe weather in June 2019 worsened the situation.
Mr C said the independent engineer was willing to carry out further investigations, but the 
cost of this work would be over £200. He thought that even if he showed Aviva the report, it 
was unlikely to change its mind that the work required wasnt covered under his policy. Then 
there was a period of dry weather, and he was also out of the country for nearly four weeks, 
before the severe June weather.
I said that having considered carefully all that Aviva and Mr C had said, I found that:
there was a blockage of the drain underneath the downpipe, as well as in the 
downpipe itself;
this blockage was present in March 2019 when Avivas engineer first visited Mr Cs 
house, but he failed properly to investigate the source of the water leak;
clearage of the blockage in the drain underneath the downpipe was covered by Mr 
Cs policy with Aviva;
after the severe flooding in June 2019, the plasterboard was so damaged that it 
needed to be replaced. However, I hadnt seen any evidence that the plasterboard 
would have needed to be replaced if Avivas engineer had cleared the blockage in 
March 2019; and
Mr C didnt go back to Aviva when he received the independent engineers report. 
But given the firmness of the line taken by Avivas engineer, and the other 
circumstances he had described, I couldnt say Mr C had acted unreasonably in not 
doing so.
 I said that Aviva did clear the blockage. But in addition, I thought it was fair and reasonable 
that Aviva should meet the cost of replacing the plasterboard covering the downpipe and 
giving it a coat of undercoat paint (the required work), in accordance with the following 
procedure. I understood that the required work hadnt yet been done.
I suggested Mr C should obtain at least two estimates for the required work and submit them 
to Aviva. If he did so, Aviva should, without delay, select one of the estimates and notify its 
choice to Mr C to enable him to arrange for the work to be done. Aviva should pay for the 
required work promptly upon receiving an invoice for it in accordance with the estimate.
I thought Aviva should also reimburse the £90 Mr C paid for the independent engineers 
report, and should pay Mr C £150 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience Aviva 
had caused him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C accepted my provisional decision.
Aviva responded to say, in summary, that having spoken to its area manager it didnt believe 
the blockage was within the drain section under the downpipe. It said
the downpipe was the only thing that was leaking because of a build up of moss from 
the roof lodged at the bottom of the downpipe;
the damage to the property was caused by the leaking downpipe; and
rainwater downpipes werent covered by the policy.
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence of Mr C, supported by the independent engineer, is in conflict with what Aviva 
says. In such circumstances, I have to decide what is most likely to have happened on the 
balance of probabilities.
On balance, I conclude that its more likely that the blockage did extend down into the drain 
underneath the downpipe. So my findings remain as set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
As mentioned above, I think Aviva should meet the cost of the required work, in accordance 
with the procedure described above, should reimburse the £90 Mr C paid for the 
independent engineers report, and should pay Mr C £150 as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience Aviva has caused him. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Aviva Insurance Limited:
without delay, if it receives estimates from Mr C, for the required work, to tell Mr C 
which estimate it selects, and promptly pay the resulting invoice once the work has 
been done;
 to reimburse to Mr C the £90 he paid for the independent engineers report; and
 
to pay Mr C £150 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
him.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman