DRN-2931675
The complaint
Mr G complains that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros declined his claim for 
subsidence on his home insurance.
What happened
Mr G had home insurance with Ocaso for a property he owns and rents out. In August 2018 
he made a claim for subsidence after the tenant returned from holiday and was unable to 
open the front door due to movement of the structure. 
Ocaso sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and subsequently declined Mr Gs claim. It 
said there were signs that the problem had developed over a long period of time. And its a 
condition of the policy that possible claims should be reported promptly, so it said the claim 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he had made a subsidence claim in 2012 but this had been fully 
repaired at the time. And since then the letting agent had conducted regular inspections and 
found no issues with the property. So he was confident there had been no ongoing 
problems. He made a complaint. 
Ocaso didnt uphold his complaint. It said its loss adjuster had noted a number of problems 
throughout the property that indicated ongoing issues with movement. And it said the tenants 
had told the loss adjuster that they had reported the issues to the letting agent a number of 
times throughout the seven years they had lived there but nothing had been done. It 
therefore said it was satisfied that the issue should have been reported earlier and the policy 
condition hadnt been met. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair. He provided a letter from the tenants that said there hadnt 
been any issues while they lived there. And he provided reports from the inspections the 
letting agent had carried out of the property. He said that showed that the declinature wasnt 
fair. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the evidence provided 
by the loss adjuster showed multiple areas of the property that had signs of movement, so 
he was persuaded that the problem had started before it was reported. So thought Ocaso 
had acted fairly by declining the claim.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, its for the insured to prove there is an insured peril  
something that is covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the claim 
or show that an exclusion or policy condition applies.
In this case Mr G has shown there is an insured peril  subsidence. However Ocaso says 
that the following condition applies:
The Insured shall within 90 days after such loss, destruction or damage, accident or
injury (within 30 days in the case of claims under Section Three (Property Owners
Liability)) at the expense of the Insured deliver to the Insurer a claim in writing
containing as much information as possible of the loss, destruction or damage,
accident or injury or any article or portions of property lost, destroyed or damaged
It says there is damage to the property caused by subsidence that happened well over 90 
days before the claim was made. I need to decide if Ocaso has done enough to prove that 
this condition applies and have acted fairly and reasonably by applying it in this case.
Ocaso has provided a detailed report from its loss adjuster. This includes a number of 
photos from different parts of the property. From the photos I can see that there are signs of 
movement and cracking in numerous areas. These include the kitchen, the rear extension, 
the bathroom, the rear bedroom and the lounge. The loss adjuster has concluded that the 
movement has been ongoing for a long time based on the number of issues and attempted 
repairs. And from looking at the extent of the damage, I understand this position. 
Mr G says that any cracking in the property relates to a previous claim that was dealt with 
and repairs carried out. Ive considered this, but from looking at the report and photos, it 
seems that the problems havent been properly addressed. As while there is evidence of 
some repairs there are still significant problems that remain unaddressed  such as a 5mm 
gap in the kitchen window and distortion to the kitchen drawers that would make them 
difficult to open. It seems likely that if these problems existed when repairs were carried out, 
they would have been addressed. So Im more persuaded that the issues have been 
ongoing and worsening for some time, including after the first claim.
Mr G has provided evidence of inspections that were carried out by the letting agent. And 
while this shows the property was attended regularly, the reports dont give any detail as to 
what checks were completed. From looking at the photos of the property, it seems likely that 
the checks werent thorough, as issues that the loss adjuster has highlighted were clear and 
significant. So the inspection reports arent enough to persuade me that there werent 
ongoing issues before the claim was made. 
Ive also considered the account provided by Mr G from his tenant, which states that no 
issues were raised throughout the seven years they have lived there. This is disputed by 
Ocaso as its loss adjuster reported that the tenants said they had made calls to the letting 
agent a number of times. When we are presented with conflicting accounts, we have to 
decide what is most likely. And from looking at the issues at the property, I think its most 
likely the tenants would have raised the problems. Particularly as some them would have 
made living in the property less comfortable  such as the gap in the window in the kitchen. 
So from what Ive seen, I am persuaded that Ocaso has done enough to prove the policy 
condition applies. And I think it has acted fairly and reasonably by applying it here. So I wont 
ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman