DRN-2703819
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from Simplyhealth Access when trying to
obtain a quote to take out health insurance. Hes also unhappy with its decision not to offer
health insurance to him. He says hes been subjected to discrimination.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021 explaining why I was 
intending to partially uphold it - part of which is copied below:
Mr S says he was entitled to a corporate discount with Simplyhealth through his employer.
He was interested in taking out health insurance so contacted Simply Health in early 2020.
Mr S was told by Simplyhealths representative that she would be able to provide him with a
quote but as hed had similar policies with Simplyhealth previously, she would need to get
confirmation from a manager before proceeding further. Mr S wasnt happy about this.
There were subsequent calls between Mr S and different representatives of Simplyhealth.
And, ultimately, Simplyhealth took the decision not to offer health insurance to Mr S.
Unhappy, Mr S complained to Simplyhealth, who said it didnt offer Mr S the policy in early
2020 based on his previous policy behaviour. Simplyhealth did accept that the service hed
received during some of the phone calls wasnt to the standard it expected, and it apologised
for this.
Mr S says he hasnt been treated fairly. He feels hes been discriminated against by
Simplyhealth because of his race, and because hes disabled.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She didnt think Simplyhealth had acted
unfairly by not offering him health insurance. Although Simplyhealth had acknowledged that
the service Mr S had received during certain calls with its representatives wasnt
satisfactory, it had apologised for this. And our investigator didnt recommend that
Simplyhealth should do anything more.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. So, his complaint has been passed to me to look 
at everything afresh and decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold it.
Not offering health insurance to Mr S:
Simplyhealth says it isnt under an obligation to accept every application it receives for health
insurance. But in order to treat customers (and potential customers) fairly, Im satisfied
Simply Health must consider such applications fairly and reasonably.
Simplyhealth says it decided not to offer Mr S health insurance in early 2020 because Mr S
had been a previous customer and it had concerns about his previous policy behaviour.
Simplyhealth has provided a breakdown of how Mr S has managed his previous policies. It
shows that, in the past:
- hed cancelled direct debits without notifying Simplyhealth;
- hed claimed the maximum entitlements under the policy before cancelling policies;
- the incentives hed received along with the total amount of the claims paid under the
  policy were in excess of the premiums hed paid for certain policies; and
- hed been retained as a customer more than once through financial incentives (such
  as being given vouchers and free months where he didnt need to pay a premium)
  before cancelling the policy.
Simplyhealth has provided us with the criteria it has in place, and which it refers to when
deciding to offer or renew health insurance. This takes account of how policyholders have
managed their policies in the past.
It says Mr S was scored against that criteria taking into account his previous behaviours and
the way in which hed managed his previous policies. And it says Mr Ss score fell
comfortably within its medium category. In such a situation, Ive seen evidence that the
guidance given to staff is to refer the issue to a manager to consider the areas which led to
him being put in the medium category before deciding whether to renew or offer another
policy.
Simplyhealth says that given the areas where Mr S scored highly and him providing evasive
answers to questions, he was asked over the phone led to the decision being taken not to
offer him a further health insurance.
However, Ive listened to the many calls Mr S had with various representatives of
Simplyhealth in January 2020. And Im not currently satisfied that Simply Health has fairly
and reasonably concluded in this particular case that Mr S had been evasive when
answering questions. Ill explain why.
The first call:
Mr S contacts Simplyhealth requesting a quote based on the corporate code hed been given 
by his employer. He confirmed that hed been a customer previously and answered the
questions put to him including his full name and date of birth. Hes also asked to confirm his
current address which he does. And because that address wasnt the one Simplyhealth had
on file, he was asked to confirm his previous address. Mr S proceeded to provide two other
previous addresses which the representative said didnt match the ones it had on its system
either. Mr S confirmed that hed lived at a number of addresses in the recent past and he
couldnt recall them all.
He was then asked for his mobile number, which he provided and this matched the one
Simplyhealth had for him. His email address also matched the one Simplyhealth had on its
system.
So, in the circumstances of this particular case, I dont think Simplyhealth has reasonably
concluded that Mr S had been vague, particularly given the other information hed given
verifying his identity and confirming at the outset of the call that hed held previous policies
with Simplyhealth.
When proposing to make this finding, I note that Mr S was asked how long ago he last had apolicy with Simplyhealth and he replied it was years ago. Simplyhealths representative said
it had only been cancelled the year prior. Im also conscious that Mr S was asked the identity
of his previous employer. And Mr S replied that he was calling from his current workplace so
he couldnt say. He also asked why this was relevant under data protection legislation.
I can understand why Mr S begun to get frustrated during the call about being asked so
many questions to verify his identity when, from his perspective, he had phoned
Simplyhealth with a view to take out a new policy and he was asked a number of questions
to verify his identity because of the previous policies hed held with it.
Simplyhealth has also provided us with a copy of its customer verification process and it
directs staff to ask for three pieces of personal information. Although Mr S wasnt able to
provide an address which matched the one Simplyhealth had on file, he was able to provide
at least four other pieces of information. And Im not currently satisfied that Simplyhealth has
been able to fairly demonstrate why it needed more personal information from Mr S.
Mr S was also told towards the end of the first call that the representative would need to
check with a manager before offering him health insurance with Simplyhealth. And I can
understand why Mr S questioned this in the circumstances and the context of the call. He
was told this was the process that needed to be followed. And when he probed again, Mr S
was told that it was because he was unable to provide a postcode and wasnt willing to
confirm the identify of his former employer.
But Mr S hadnt declined to the confirm the identity of this employer. As Mr S said to
Simplyhealths representative, when asked about his previous employer earlier in the call,
hed replied that he preferred not to say as he was calling from work. And, I think that was
reasonable in the circumstances of this case and it was unfair to use that against him
considering all the other personal information Mr S had given.
The second call:
Mr S called Simplyhealth again and requested to speak to a manager about the service hed
been provided - and that hed been prevented from taking out a new health insurance policy.
He notified the manager that hed been asked for a previous address that he couldnt recall.
And that he had a protected characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 (the EqA) so he said
Simplyhealth should make reasonable adjustments for him, as his protected characteristic
meant he couldnt recollect the information hed been asked to provide.
At that stage of the second call, the manager he spoke to didnt explore with Mr S the nature
of his protected characteristic or why, specifically, he was having difficulty providing certain
information. And by the time the manager did ask about his protected characteristic towards
the end of this call, I can understand why Mr S said hed rather discuss the details with
someone else at Simplyhealth. Thats because, having listened to the call, I dont think
Simplyhealth handled that call well. I understand why it has already concluded that the call
fell below the expected standards.
Im persuaded that the tone used by the manager Mr S spoke to wasnt appropriate; she
showed little empathy and her behaviour wasnt conducive to trying to understand Mr Ss
concerns in order to resolve them. Towards the end of the call Mr S says he was astounded
by the service hed received. Im persuaded that Mr S wouldve been upset and frustrated
by the behaviour of Simply Healths representative during that call.
The third call:
During the first and second calls, Mr S says he was keen to proceed with the policy becausethere was a cut off period to use the corporate code hed been given. He also said during the
first call that he needed some dental treatment. So, he called Simplyhealth after the second
call to see whether he could take out the policy.
At the start of the third call Mr S again explained that he wanted to join that day. He was told
the representative he spoke to during the first call was in a meeting. He explained that he
was calling during his lunchbreak and that hed rather her handle the call as he wasnt happy
with the service hed previously given and had made a complaint.
He provided his date of birth and postcode and he was once again told that this wasnt the
postcode Simplyhealth had for him. Hes asked whether he can remember any of his
previous addresses and Mr S asked whether this was normal protocol. At that point hes told
someone will call him back to which Mr S responded, he only wanted to take out a policy.
The representative then, without warning, reads from a pre-prepared script that Simplyhealth
wont be able to accept his application for health insurance and that it was under no
obligation to do so. Mr S asked why the decision had been taken and was told that Simply
health doesnt have to give a reason.
Conclusions:
Simplyheath has confirmed that its audit team had begun reviewing Mr Ss application after
the first call and had listened to the first and second calls before the decision had been made
not to offer Mr S health insurance. But the calls hadnt been listened to by the audit manager
whod taken that decision; shes relied on the written summary of the calls she had been
given. Simplyhealth has told us that reflected that Mr S had been very elusive with providing
details, in particular his postcode, giving several different ones.
The audit manager has also confirmed that having reviewed Mr Ss policy behaviour alone,
she may have agreed to let Mr S take out another policy with Simplyhealth, with a
recommendation to monitor the policy to see whether Mr S repeated any previous policy
behaviours.
Im currently satisfied that it was Simplyhealths perception that Mr S had been evasive
during the first and second calls, which resulted in the policy not being offered to him; rather
than any previous past behaviours.
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Mr S had been unreasonably evasive about
providing any information during the first and second calls  or when providing his postcode.
So, Im currently persuaded Simplyhealth unfairly and unreasonably declined his application
for the health insurance policy.
Simply Health has accepted that it provided Mr S with poor customer service during certain
phone calls. Mr S believes that what Simply Health has done goes beyond poor customer
service. He felt discriminated against in breach of the EqA.
The EqA sets out the ways in which someone who has a protected characteristic may be
discriminated against by a service provider. A protected characteristic includes a disability 
which is given a specific definition under the EqA  and race.
But its not our role to determine whether Simply Health has breached the EqA  thats the
role of the courts. Although, I am required to take the EqA into account, if its relevant,
amongst other things when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint.
Given the way in which the calls went  and Simplyhealths refusal to give a reason duringthe third call for having his application for health insurance declined  I can see why, from
Mr Ss perspective, he fears hes been discriminated against. And although I dont have the
power to make a finding on whether Mr S was discriminated against under the EqA, I dont
think Simply Health has quite grasped how its actions have made Mr S feel.
Distress and inconvenience:
Mr S says what Simplyhealth did wrong exacerbated mental health issues he had at the
time. Ive seen medical evidence that Mr S was living with depression. But I havent seen
any medical opinion reflecting that the way in which Mr S was treated by Simplyhealth
caused or exacerbated his depression.
Ive also seen evidence that around the time Mr S was dealing with other personal issues
that were likely to be stressful. However, I think its fair to conclude that the way in which
Simplyhealth dealt with his application  and the way in which it handled the phone calls 
wouldve caused Mr S some unnecessary stress and frustration at an already difficult time.
Mr S also says he had to wait around 12 months for a NHS appointment for podiatry
treatment which he wouldve been able to pay privately for and claim back under the policy if
it had been place from January 2020. Ive got no reason to doubt what Mr S says about this
so, Im currently persuaded that he had to wait longer to access this treatment which is likely
to have caused some further unnecessary distress and frustration.
Mr S also says that if the policy had been in place from January 2020, he wouldve been
able to claim for physiotherapy that he needed as a result of being involved in car accidents
in 2020. He says that he was able to access physiotherapy  which he didnt need to
personally pay for  but he wouldve also been able to pay privately for more sessions and
claim back on the policy if it had been in place.
Thats, of course, possible. But Im not persuaded that Mr S wouldve booked additional
sessions as if he needed them, its not clear why he didnt ask for those to be covered as
part of his car insurance claim. And, if he wasnt happy with the physiotherapy sessions he
did have access to, Ive seen no documentary evidence to show that he raised this through
the appropriate channels at the time.
All in all, Im proposing that Simplyhealth pay Mr S £350 compensation to reflect the distress,
frustration and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what it did wrong.
Offering the policy to Mr S retrospectively:
The application was made over a year ago. So, there seems to be little benefit asking
Simplyhealth to retrospectively put the policy into place for Mr S with effect of January 2020
and asking Mr S to pay backdated monthly premiums going back to then. But Mr S says he
would still like to take out a policy with Simplyhealth.
Simplyhealth has provided our Service with copies of two policies that couldve been offered
to Mr S in January 2020 and they are still available now; its usual Simplyhealth plan
available to the general public and one available to staff of his employer.
So, I intend to direct Simply Health to contact Mr S to obtain the necessary information it
requires to proceed with an application for the Simplyheath plan he wishes to take out, if he
still wants to.
Financial losses:Mr S has also provided invoices to support payments hes made for prescriptions, optics,
treatment for his ear and dentistry throughout 2020 and early 2021.
If Mr S had taken out Simplyhealths standard plan (level 4) it wouldve cost him £40 per
month. If hed opted to take the plan which related to his employer, it wouldve cost £29.02
per month for level 4 and £46.54 per month for level 5. And the annual claim limit for each
section varies depending on what level is taken.
Given the invoices Ive seen, Im currently persuaded that the amounts Mr S has paid for
optics, dentistry, and prescriptions (taking into account the annual limits for each of those
categories)  and the ear treatment even if covered - doesnt exceed the amount he
wouldve paid for monthly premium over 13 months (had the policy been place since January
2020). Im satisfied thats the case no matter which level of policy he wouldve opted for.
So, I dont think Mr S has experienced any financial loss as a result of the policy not being
offered to him.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. 
Simplyhealth had nothing further to add. 
Mr S said he accepted my provisional decision in principle. However, he said:
- the £350 I intended to direct Simplyhealth to pay him for distress and inconvenience 
wasnt sufficient to compensate him for the level of distress and hurt he experienced;
- Simplyhealth should refund him for the treatments hed paid for since being denied 
the policy in January 2020;
- £750 would be a fairer settlement; and
- he has undergone physiotherapy after the accidents hed been involved in  and 
continues to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the additional comments received from Mr S. 
Mr Ss further representations havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. I say that because:
- For the reasons set out in my provisional decision  an extract of which is set out in 
the background of this, my final decision - Im satisfied that £350 fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience Mr S experienced as a result of what Simplyhealth did 
wrong.
- The amounts Mr S has paid for optics, dentistry, and prescriptions (taking into 
account the annual limits for each of those categories)  and the ear treatment even 
if covered - doesnt exceed the amount he wouldve paid for monthly premiums over 
13 months (had the policy been place since January 2020). So, I dont think Mr S has 
suffered any financial loss in this respect. And, as such, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for Simplyhealth to refund him for optics, dentistry, ear treatment and 
prescriptions hes paid out for since January 2020 and may have been covered under the policy if it had been in place. 
- I appreciate that Mr S had access to physiotherapy as a result of the car accidents 
hed been involved in. But for the reasons set on in my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded that Mr S wouldve booked additional sessions if the policy had been in 
place since January 2020.
For the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision  I partially uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Within 14 days from the date on which Mr S accepts any final decision and we notify
Simplyhealth of that acceptance (whichever is later), I direct Simplyhealth to:
- contact Mr S to obtain the necessary information it requires to proceed with an
  application for the Simplyheath plan he wishes to take out;
- provide a written apology to Mr S for the way in which he was spoken to during the
  second call;
- pay Mr S £350 compensation for the distress and frustration he experienced as a
  result of the way in which the second and third calls were handled  and not being
  offered medical insurance.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Simplyhealth Access to put things
right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman