DRN-3205567
The complaint
Mr D, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Here is a brief loan table showing the loans approved for Mr D.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Loan 
AmountHighest Combined 
Weekly Repayment
1 19/12/2019 16/06/2020 34 £200.00 £10.00
2 10/03/2020 01/10/2020 34 £300.00 £25.00
3 16/06/2020 01/12/2020 34 £400.00 £35.00
4 01/10/2020 outstanding 34 £300.00 £35.00
5 01/12/2020 outstanding 53 £700.00 £39.50
One of our adjudicators considered that Morses should put things right for loans 3 to 5.
Morses responded and agreed to put things right for Mr D in relation to loans 4 and 5, but it 
did not agree with the uphold for loan 3. This was put to Mr D who replied to say that he 
agreed with our adjudicator and did not wish to accept Morses offer about loans 4 and 5. 
Our adjudicator wrote again to endorse his first view. Morses asked that the unresolved 
complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr D could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of different things, such 
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ds income and 
expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include:
Mr D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr D was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D does not take issue with the adjudicators outcome for loans 1 and 2 and Morses has 
agreed with our adjudicator in relation to loans 4 and 5. So the loan about which there 
remains a dispute is loan 3. It is loan 3 I have focussed on in this decision and I have 
reviewed it within the context of the complete lending relationship.
Loan 3 was applied for when Mr D had already been in debt to Morses for several months 
and asking for £400 was double the amount he had been asking for at loan1. And by the 
dates given and shown on the loan table (above), it seems that the capital from loan 3 was 
used to repay loan 1. So, Mr Ds need for the credit was increasing. Loan 3 would have 
indebted him to a further 34 weeks and loan 2 remained outstanding. So, the cost to him 
would have been higher as he had two loans to repay and it was going to be £35 a week. 
Morses carried out a credit check on 18/12/2019  before loan 1  and having reviewed 
those results sent to us by Morses, I think that it gave Morses enough information to be 
aware that Mr D had had financial issues in the relatively recent past. Mr D had recorded 
against his name several unsatisfied County Court Judgments (CCJs), the latest being just 
three months before loan 1 was approved. So by the time Mr D was increasing his weekly 
spend on credit with Morses and increasing his debt with it at loan 3, then Morses already 
had the information it had gained in December 2019. 
One illustration from that credit search was Total current balances on active accounts 
opened more than 12 months ago, excluding mortgages was just under £6,000. And the 
amount of money Mr D was going to be spending on the Morses loan as a proportion of his 
weekly income was relatively high as I would describe Mr D as being a customer with a 
modest to low weekly income. I appreciate that Morses did the credit search before loan 1 but still it had this information on 
its files when Mr D came to Morses for Loan 3. 
And I note that Mr Ds expenditure Morses relied on when making its decision about loan 3 
was relatively low and did not include anything for food. So, I do not consider its recent 
argument submitted to us persuasive: that the disposable income information it had for Mr D 
was enough for him to be able to afford Loan 2 and 3 together in a sustainable way. I say 
that because I do not think its argument for loan 3 was based on an accurate set of facts. 
Additional debt burden was not what Mr D needed. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 to 5 (of which loans 4 & 5 Morses has already 
agreed to put things right) and Morses should put things right in the following way. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr D at loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr D loans 3 to 5. I understand that Mr D owes Morses money. 
I am planning to direct Morses to do as I have set out here. 
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr D as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mr D having made overpayments then Morses should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr D. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr D. 
E) Morses should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in 
relation to loans 3 to 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman