DRN-2426762
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) has dealt with a claim 
made under his home insurance policy after he discovered a flood at his property.  
What happened
Mr S noticed flooding at his home in November 2019 and made a claim under his Tesco 
home insurance policy. Mr S asked Tesco to send someone to come and inspect the 
damage, but Tesco said it would do so after the Coronavirus pandemic lockdown had eased. 
Mr S was unhappy about this and told Tesco that the visit was an essential one. He advised 
Tesco that he was disabled and that they shouldnt wait for the lockdown to be lifted. 
Mr S is also unhappy about the delays caused when Tesco did arrange to send someone to 
him in April 2020. Hes especially dissatisfied with the service he received from the 
appointed loss adjuster. Mr S says the loss adjuster agreed to contact him every two weeks 
with an update but didnt do this, instead only contacting him a few times over the following 
months. 
As part of the claim, Mr S wanted Tesco to cover damage to the kitchen floor and damage to 
a roller shutter door which he said was caused by the flood. Tesco inspected the damage to 
the kitchen floor, but said that this was due to poor workmanship. It also inspected the door, 
but said it wouldnt be covering this as it thought the damage was due to the age of the 
shutter, and not caused by an insured event. Unhappy with the service hed received from 
Tesco, Mr S made a complaint.
Tesco considered Mr Ss complaint and said it hadnt identified any issues with the service 
the loss adjuster had provided. Mr S disagreed with Tescos final response and so he 
referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt think the damage to the roller shutter 
door was caused by the flood and so wasnt covered under the policy. He also thought the 
level of contact Tesco had with Mr S throughout the claim wasnt unreasonable. But that 
Tesco shouldve arranged a surveyor more quickly during the lockdown. Our investigator 
therefore recommended Tesco pay Mr S £200 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused 
by the delay.
Because Mr S disagreed with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr S said the level of communication from Tescos loss adjuster was inadequate. Ive 
thought carefully about this and looked at the timeline of contact to determine whether I think 
more shouldve been done. Ive also considered Tescos submissions which say Mr S 
indicated he didnt need to be contacted unless there was a meaningful update. Ive also had 
regard for the impact of the pandemic and the difficulties businesses have generally had in 
maintaining a good level of service. 
Having looked at all the evidence, and as theres no recording of the call in which the level of 
contact was discussed, Im afraid I dont agree that the frequency of communication was 
insufficient. I can see that Tesco provided updates at reasonable intervals when Mr S asked 
for them.
In terms of the delays in handling the claim, I can see how these have impacted Mr S. Hes 
disabled and has had to rely on microwave meals, as he didnt have proper use of his 
kitchen during the time it took to arrange a surveyor. There was a delay of around four 
weeks between Tesco becoming aware that the kitchen floor needed an inspection and the 
surveyors visit. And Tesco didnt arrange any alternative accommodation for Mr S. So I think 
Tesco should pay compensation to Mr S in recognition of the impact of that delay, which 
includes the trouble and upset caused due to cooking facilities not being available for Mr S to 
use during that time. I appreciate Mr S has asked for a significant amount of compensation, 
but I dont think the amount hes asked for reflects the impact the delays had on him.
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about the cracks in the kitchen and dining room 
flooring. For me to conclude that certain damage should be covered under a policy, I need to 
be satisfied that the insured event was the main cause of the damage. Mr S has disagreed 
that the damage to the floors was due to poor workmanship and has given his view on this. 
Hes said the flooring only cracked after the flood and that if it was defective it wouldve 
showed signs of cracking in the years prior to the flood. But while I understand Mr Ss point, I 
dont agree with the conclusion hes drawn from this. The evidence Tesco has provided 
shows that although the cracks started to appear following the flood, this wouldnt have 
happened if the flooring had been constructed correctly.
Tescos surveyors report details the problems with the lack of concrete base to the floor and 
the unusual way in which the flooring has been laid. And as I dont have enough evidence to 
dispute that the flooring shouldnt be covered due to poor workmanship, I dont think the 
delays in inspection of the flooring have had a significant impact.
Ive given careful consideration to what Mr S has said about the roller shutter door. The 
quotations hes provided mention briefly the work required but dont comment on the cause 
of the damage. The professional who visited Mr S and confirmed the door was damaged by 
flooding didnt provide a report, so Ive considered this but dont find it persuasive. Im more 
persuaded by the opinion of Tescos surveyor, who said the damage was most likely due to 
the age of the door, as well as the fact that the door and pulley mechanism were badly 
rusted and worn and hadnt been maintained. Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has 
said in relation to the fact that the door can be used normally now except that the split 
gradually increases in length. But Im afraid that still doesnt mean the flood was the main 
cause of the damage and didnt simply highlight an underlying problem with the age and 
condition of the door.
So, all things considered, Im satisfied that Tesco hasnt been unreasonable in declining to 
cover the damage to the kitchen and dining room flooring and the roller shutter door. And I 
dont think the level of communication has been insufficient throughout the duration of the 
claim. But I think Tesco couldve acted sooner to inspect the damage during the lockdown. 
So I agree with our investigator that £200 is fair and reasonable in light of the trouble and 
upset caused because of this delay.
Putting things rightTesco should pay Mr S £200 in recognition of the trouble and upset it has caused due to the 
delays in handling the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Tesco Underwriting 
Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman