DRN-1187023
Complaint
Mr I has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called PDL 
Financial Limited, trading at the time as Mr Lender. Mr I says he was lent to irresponsibly 
and the loans caused him financial problems
To keep things simple Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender throughout this decision.
Background
We now know that Mr I took out 9 instalment loans from Mr Lender between November 2016 
and November 2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Is borrowing with Mr Lender, based on 
the information it provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of loan number 4 onwards. Mr Lender made an offer to otherwise settle the 
complaint but this wasnt agreed to by Mr I. Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking about Mr Is 
complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
I could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr I could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr I could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Mr Lender told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mr I including assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that at the 
time all this information showed that he would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to. Ive thought about this and also looked at the overall pattern of lending history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at 
some point, Mr Lender should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans 
to Mr I. 
Ive taken account of what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, and 
applied it to the circumstances of loans 1  3 in this case. And I dont think its clear enough 
that what Mr Lender would have seen, from its checks, suggested loans 1  3 were either 
unaffordable for Mr I or that the information from the checks it carried out undermined the 
income or outgoings Mr I had himself declared. 
I accept that Mr I may have already been finding managing his money quite difficult at this 
point. However, theres no clear record that the type or depth of credit checks carried out at 
that time, which would have been quite basic, would have exposed these issues. So Im 
afraid I dont agree that Mr Lender knew its lending was unsustainable for loans 1 - 3. I 
therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan number 4, the situation was different and the types of 
financial checks Mr Lender ought to have carried out should have been much more 
comprehensive and searching. Thats because by that point hed been borrowing for a few 
months and was now asking to be lent a much higher amount. So I dont think it was 
reasonable for Mr Lender to just continue to lend money to Mr I without going into greater 
detail to establish that there werent any obvious financial risks emerging. Greater checks 
could have included verifying Mr Is income and expenditure information and establishing if 
he had any other debts at the time.
However, theres no evidence Mr Lender did anything different and I think this lack of 
diligence contributed further to Mr Is money problems. Any reasonable assessment of his 
situation, for example, would have easily shown he was indebted to several other short-term 
lenders at the point of loan number 4. Our experience of short-term lending tells us that 
consumers who have difficulty managing their money in this way are less likely to be able to 
sustainably repay a loan. With this information, I dont think Mr Lender ought to have lent him 
the money for the loan 4 or any others from that point on. I dont think it was responsible to 
do so.
In addition to the above, from the point of loan 6 onwards, there was an additional and clear 
pattern of repeated lending evident in my view. And there was an obvious dependency on 
high-interest, short-term lending evidenced by this, Mr Is sixth continuous loan, without a 
meaningful break, in 20 months. So Im also upholding Mr Is complaint in respect of loans 6 - 9 as Mr Lender repeatedly lent 
to Mr I in an unsustainable manner because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Is indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended time period; 
and
the length of time over which Mr I borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr I, Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges Mr I paid on loans 4 - 9;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 9 and treat any payments 
Mr I made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Is loan 9 account as Ive directed results in Mr I effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Mr Lender should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Is loan 9 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Mr 
Lender can use the total refund for any other outstanding loans to offset this. And if 
there is still an outstanding capital balance then I would remind Mr Lender that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr I for the remaining capital;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Is credit file in relation to loans 4 
and 5;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 - 9 should be completely removed 
from Mr Is credit file.
If any of the debts were sold then Mr Lender must attempt buy back the debt or 
otherwise ensure the above is strictly complied with.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Is complaint and I direct PDL Financial Limited to put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
 
 
 
 Appendix
 
Loan 
Taken OutAmountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment 
Repaid
115/11/2016 £200 £103.73 29/11/2016
218/12/2016 £350 £228.66 09/01/2017
316/01/2017 £500 £239.33 23/01/2017
402/03/2017 £1200 £251.20 01/06/2017
502/06/2017 £1100 £225.31 27/04/2018
613/07/2018 £1150 £333.65 21/08/2018
715/10/2018 £1200 £337.60 24/10/2018
829/11/2018 £1000 £285.11 29/11/2018
929/11/2018 £1000 £213.83 outstanding
 
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman