DRN-3330127
The complaint
Mr S complained that Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr S with a loan as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan 
status
2/6/2021 £1,5000 24 months £181 £4,344 Still active
Mr S said, through a representative, that it was irresponsible of Loans 2 Go to provide this 
loan as it failed to conduct proportionate checks.
When Mr S complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt uphold his complaint but made an offer to 
reduce the interest he would have to pay as a gesture of goodwill. Mr S didnt feel this offer 
went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ss complaint. She thought that Loans 2 Go shouldve 
taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Ss financial situation. But without sight of 
Mr Ss bank statements she didnt feel able to say that a proportionate check wouldve 
shown it was unfair to lend, so she concluded she didnt have enough information to be able 
to uphold the complaint.
Our adjudicator repeated a request for Mr S to send us his bank statements so we 
could assess his complaint further. His representative has asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
So Mr Ss complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law. Having thought about everything, I am not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons.
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the 
borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan 
payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must 
take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the 
loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But 
reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when 
thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other 
expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments 
and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should also 
find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if 
a loan wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr S and thought carefully about the 
following key questions:
- Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ss loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr S about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. It completed income verification with a third party and 
checked Mr Ss credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments 
and credit history. 
Loans 2 Go was satisfied that its independent check showed that it could rely on 
Mr Ss monthly income being at least £1,251. It worked out that Mr S needed to 
spend around £906 each month to cover his regular monthly expenditure including 
what he needed to pay to service his existing credit commitments. 
Loans 2 Go concluded that this meant its loan was affordable for Mr S  and I can see 
that these figures suggested he should have enough surplus cash to pay this loan. 
But I dont think Loans 2 Go thought carefully enough about what the information it 
had gathered potentially revealed about Mr Ss overall financial situation. I say this 
because there was some adverse information shown on the credit checks. The credit 
report Loans 2 Go obtained showed that Mr S already had some accounts in default 
dating back some years and he was in an arrangement to pay a public utility account.
There were no indications of bankruptcy or any county court judgements on his record. 
It looked like his bank account was being well run and he was well within his overdraft 
limit. The defaults dated back a few years so I can understand why a lender might 
have thought these might not be a particular spending priority for Mr S. 
So, overall, I dont think Loans 2 Go saw enough in my view to warrant refusing his 
loan application. But, keeping also in mind the loan term and amount and the 
indications that Mr S had been finding it hard to meet all his contractual monthly repayments, I think Loans 2 Go shouldve been alerted to the need for more in-depth 
checking to ensure it had a proper understanding of Mr Ss finances.   
Im not satisfied that the checks Loans 2 Go went far enough. To my mind, checks 
should have included a full review of Mr Ss financial circumstances and, in particular, 
further verification of his expenditure so it could ensure that the loan repayments were 
affordable over the term of the loan.
But although I dont think the checks Loans 2 Go did before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, thats not enough for me to be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I also 
need to be able to say that if Loans 2 Go had done what I consider to be 
proportionate checks, these would have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr S couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments.
I havent however been provided with any further information to enable me to say 
what Loans 2 Go would have most likely seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. 
So, because of this, I am unable to safely conclude that Mr S was given a loan that 
was unaffordable for him and this is why Im not upholding his complaint.
I think its also fair to say that Mr S seems to have told Loans 2 Go that he wanted the loan 
for debt consolidation  in other words, he would use the loan to repay other debt. I think in 
these circumstances Loans 2 Go might reasonably have taken a view that this suggested 
Mr S was borrowing specifically to help him manage his finances more responsibly  and it 
looked like he ought to be able to afford to do that on the figures it worked out. 
Ultimately, as Ive not been able to see what better checks would have shown Loans 2 Go, 
on this occasion I havent been able to draw any conclusions about this, other than I cant 
fairly and reasonably say that it shouldve realised that the loan was not sustainably 
unaffordable for Mr S.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Loans 2 Go should pay redress for any other reason. 
Mr S hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Loans 2 
Go acted unfairly towards Mr S in any other way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
I expect Loans 2 Go to continue to treat Mr S positively and sympathetically if he is 
continuing to experience financial difficulty. I would encourage Mr S to provide details of his 
financial situation to Loans 2 Go if he still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the 
loan. 
And if Mr S would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if 
he gives us a call. 
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr S but hope setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman