DRN-2099737
The complaint
Miss H complains One Insurance Limited gave her incorrect information when attending her 
car under her Gold Breakdown Membership  a roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In April 2020 Miss H called One Insurance out to look at her car as it wasnt starting. She 
was told the issue was due to her key needing reprogramming. One Insurances technician 
gave Miss H a number for a locksmith  who came out and said there wasnt anything wrong 
with the key and she needed to take her car to a garage. Miss H was charged £45 for the 
locksmiths visit. Miss H called One Insurance and asked them to take it to a garage for her  
but they said because she was at home they couldnt. Miss H then called a recovery service 
to take her car to a garage, who charged her £60, and the garage then charged her £54 to 
diagnose the issue. 
The issue diagnosed was a blown fuse, which Miss H says if shed been told this she could 
have sorted out herself. Overall then, Miss H felt shed paid £159 when actually if 
One Insurance had diagnosed the problem properly then she wouldnt have been charged 
anything. She complained and asked One Insurance to pay her this amount back  she also 
asked for her premiums back for the policy shed paid.
One Insurance said theyd refund the cost of the locksmith which was £45, and said theyd 
pay her a pro-rata refund of the policy which came to £20.52. But said they wouldnt refund 
all the costs, as taking the car to the garage (£60) and fixing the issue (£54) would have 
been incurred even if One Insurances technician diagnosed the issue correctly. Miss H 
wasnt happy with that and asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so  he quoted the policy terms back to One Insurance and said 
it wasnt clear whether someones car could be taken to a garage if they broke down at 
home or not and asked for further clarification. One Insurance said our investigators question 
answered itself. Our investigator still felt the wording wasnt clear though  so he upheld the 
complaint. He felt the cost of the recovery to the garage should be covered but didnt think 
itd be appropriate for One Insurance to pay for the repair itself as that wasnt covered under 
the policy terms. So, recommend One Insurance pay Miss H £60.
Miss H accepted this, but One Insurance didnt. They said its clear in the terms what 
happens, so wouldnt be accepting what he said. Because of this, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Insurance have refunded Miss H the costs of the locksmith, and a pro-rata element of 
her policy as well. And Miss H has accepted our investigators assessment that 
One Insurance shouldnt be responsible for the cost of repairs. Ive not seen any reason to 
disagree with any of this, so Ive focused this decision on the remaining issue to be decided.
One Insurance say their policy terms are clear in Miss Hs scenario  specifically that her car 
wont start at home, and that this means she wouldnt be entitled to recovery to a garage. 
So, Ive looked at the relevant policy terms which say:
If the vehicle registered has broken down in the UK then you are limited to the following:
A. Call out and up to 1 hours roadside help by one of our allowed recovery operators to go 
to the scene of the breakdown and, where possible, carry out emergency repairs
B. If repairs cannot be successfully carried out at the scene of the breakdown, then we will 
pay the cost of recovering the vehicle, driver and up to four passengers to the nearest open 
and suitable garage able to affect a repair, or recovery to your onwards destination, or home 
address (whichever is nearer).
C. If our recovery agent cannot fix your vehicle at the roadside within an agreed, reasonable 
period then you will be offered one of the following options (whichever we think is suitable)
II. The recovery of the vehicle, the driver and up to four passengers to any one 
destination within the territorial limits written down in this cover.
And, within the policy terms, the definition of breakdown is given as An electrical or 
mechanical failure that immobilises the vehicle.
Theres no specific section in the policy terms that set out what Miss Hs cover would be in 
her situation. I understand One Insurance intended for the terms to mean her situation 
wouldnt be covered. But she read it as though she is covered. I think theres some 
ambiguity there.
No definition is given of roadside in the policy  so under point C Miss Hs car breaking 
down at home would appear to be eligible to be taken to one destination of her choice which 
 had the issue been diagnosed correctly  seems likely to have been taken to a garage.
One Insurance have said the inclusion of (whichever is nearer) in point B makes it clear  
but given I think that could be contradicted by point C as Ive explained above  Im not sure 
it does.
And in any event, I think its fair to say the evidence suggests the diagnosis wasnt done 
properly. If it had been done properly, Miss H has said she could have changed the fuse 
herself and wouldnt have incurred the costs she did. The fault is probably something Id 
usually expect a technician to be able to diagnose correctly. 
So, overall, on a fair and reasonable basis Im not sure the terms are clear, Miss H had a 
reasonable expectation One Insurance would cover the £60 recovery service fee  and had 
things been done properly by their technician then it seems Miss H wouldnt have had to pay 
this. Because of that, Im satisfied its appropriate for her to be refunded these costs. If 
One Insurance require evidence of these costs then they can ask Miss H for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and order One Insurance 
Limited to pay Miss H £60 upon receipt of appropriate evidence if required.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman