DRN-2679292
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the service received from Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) in 
the handling of a Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) claim.
Where I refer to IPA, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
Although the policy is a joint policy between Mr and Mrs S, for ease of reading, Ill only refer 
to Mr S.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In 2017 Mr S had some work done to some of the 
roofing at his home by a firm Ill refer to as C. In January 2019 Mr S noticed a leak from the 
roof that C had worked on. He asked C to come and remedy the situation and when he got 
no response he contacted the Legal Helpline (LH) which was one of the benefits of his 
insurance policy. 
Initially the advice from the LH was to write to C again to ask that they respond within seven 
days otherwise Mr S would consider getting the remedial work done by a third party before 
seeking reimbursement from C. Mr S followed this advice and when he still had no response 
he called the LH again.
This time he was given a link to IPAs online form to enable him to make a claim. IPA asked 
Mr S for information which included whether or not hed already contacted his home insurer 
A about the claim. Mr S responded to say he had and referenced his calls with the LH. IPA 
highlighted a policy term which said there is no cover where the claim is covered by a more 
specific insurance. 
On 9 April 2019 Mr S complained, he felt hed received poor service and had been 
continually passed between different departments / insurers without any resolution. He 
asked that his claim be covered (either to repair the damage or to pursue C for a remedy). 
He also asked for compensation for the poor service hed received. 
Although Mr S complaint was made to A, it was passed to IPA (as his LEI insurer) who 
responded on 24 April 2019. They explained the relationship between the numerous parties 
involved but didnt uphold the complaint. They explained why they needed further 
information from Mr S to progress his claim. 
Ultimately it was established that A wouldnt assist with regard to the damage under Mr S 
home insurance policy. So IPA progressed the LEI claim and asked for a solicitor to assess 
the prospects of the claim succeeding. A solicitor concluded that there werent reasonable 
prospects of success which was a requirement for cover under the policy. This legal opinion 
was primarily based on the company C being dissolved in January 2019, meaning that it 
had ceased to exist as a legal entity and so legal action against them couldnt take place. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered it but didnt 
recommend that IPA needed to do anything further. He acknowledged the arrangements 
between the main household insurer and the LEI insurer can be confusing, but he didnt 
think IPA were responsible for poor service to the extent that compensation needed to be 
paid. Mr S disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons, I know 
this will be disappointing for Mr S, so Ill explain why. 
Mr S LEI cover is provided as an add-on to his home insurance. And whilst the home 
insurance policy is branded and provided by A, the LEI section itself is underwritten by IPA. 
It is also common for an insurer such as IPA to use a claims handler to deal with claims and 
complaints on their behalf. This complaint is about IPA, so I can only comment on what they 
or their agents have or havent done. If Mr S remains unhappy with A, he should take this up 
with them, something Im pleased to see our investigator has already offered to assist with. 
In the circumstances here Mr S contacted the LH in February 2019 and after receiving some 
advice he submitted his claim form which IPA received on 21 February 2019. Mr S was 
abroad between 25 February and 9 March 2019 and wasnt therefore in a position to 
respond during that time period. 
Later in March 2019 IPA highlighted that Mr S policy says: There is no cover where The 
claim is more specifically insured They asked Mr S for evidence that A couldnt assist him 
before theyd take things further.  
In broad terms this meant that LEI cover wouldnt be available to Mr S if he were able to 
claim to have the damage to his roof repaired under another insurance policy. I dont think 
this is an unfair or unclear policy term. I also think it was reasonable for IPA to ask Mr S for 
evidence that A couldnt fix the roof for him under that policy before progressing the claim. 
Legal action shouldnt generally be the first port of call in trying to resolve a dispute and I 
think IPA asking for evidence that A couldnt help first was fair. 
Mr S believed he had spoken to A during his calls in February 2019 when he was actually 
speaking to the LH. And whilst I can quite understand how this confusion arose, Mr S hadnt 
spoken to A about whether their insurance could help. On 25 March 2019 Mr S was 
transferred from the LH to a claims handler from IPA who explained why Mr S needed to 
obtain evidence from A before things could progress. 
On 9 April 2019 Mr S made his complaint which, as Ive mentioned above, was responded to 
by IPA on 24 April 2019. Once IPA received confirmation that the policy with A couldnt 
repair the damage for Mr S, they progressed the claim to the next stage which was obtaining 
a legal opinion on the prospects of the claim succeeding. I think this was fair. 
Mr S says that at the heart of his complaint is whether or not he is entitled to legal cover to 
pursue C. But our service cant handle claims, were here to resolve disputes. And I cant 
comment on further aspects of the claim that IPA are yet to provide a complaint response to. 
Im satisfied that up until IPA issued their final response to this complaint, theyd acted within 
the policy terms and fairly. It was reasonable for them to ensure that Mr S wasnt more specifically insured in line with the policy term discussed above. In this complaint, I cant 
comment on the actions of anyone other than IPA or their agents and in that context  I dont 
think IPA are responsible for poor service to the extent that it would be fair for me to direct 
that compensation needs to be paid. If Mr S feels that his home insurer A are responsible for 
failings that resulted in his LEI claim not succeeding, this is something he should direct to 
them. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman