DRN-4221749
The complaint
Mrs H is complaining on behalf of A  a limited company  that Whitefield Insurance 
Services Limited (Whitefield) failed to give accurate information to the insurance company 
that provided As commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Around September 2015 A took out a commercial property insurance policy through 
Whitefield  a broker. Around September 2021 Whitefield contacted Mrs H to say it might be 
able to place the insurance policy with a different insurer on more favourable terms. Mrs H 
agreed to this and Whitefield sent her a statement of facts for her to check the details were 
correct. Whitefield later spoke with Mrs H on the phone and it says Mrs H confirmed the 
details were correct.
Unfortunately a significant fire occurred on As premises, so Mrs H looked to claim for the 
damage on As insurance policy. However, the insurer avoided the insurance policy because 
it said Whitefield hadnt told it that Mrs H had previously been a director of a company that 
had been liquidated and that A had had an insurance policy avoided in 2014.
Mrs H complained to Whitefield as she said it had told her she didnt need to disclose the 
previous liquidation as it had happened more than five years ago. She also said that it 
should have done a full fact find when the policy changed insurers.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as he was satisfied that Whitefield had sent the 
statement of fact to Mrs H to check the details and shed said the information was correct.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised As complaint in a lot less detail 
than Mrs H has presented it. Mrs H has raised a number of reasons about why shes 
unhappy with the way Whitefield has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and 
every point shes raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I 
need to think about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but this simply reflects the 
informal nature of this service. I assure Mrs H, however, that I have read and considered 
everything shes provided.
The relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015. This required the policy applicant to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer so that it had enough information to assess 
the level of risk it was willing to provide and on what terms. 
And if the applicant fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the failure is  
what the Insurance Act describes  as a qualifying breach. For it to be a qualifying breach 
the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the 
consumer hadnt made the breach. 
The insurer has avoided the insurance policy because it says there was a qualifying breach 
and it wouldnt have insured A had it been given the true facts. The insurer is not a party to 
this complaint so I wont comment on whether anything the insurer has done is fair or not. 
My role in this decision is to consider whether Whitefield has acted fairly in fulfilling its 
responsibility towards A as its broker.
As As broker, Whitefield was required to make this presentation on As behalf. So it needed 
to ensure it had all the relevant information the insurer required to give a fair presentation of 
the risk.
I note Mrs H is unhappy that all parties havent been able to show what information was 
disclosed by Whitefield. But this information is contained within the statement of fact. 
However, I also dont need to make a finding on this because there is no dispute Whitefield 
didnt tell the insurer that Mrs H had previously been a director of a company that had been 
liquidated, nor that A had previously had a policy avoided. So the issue for me to decide is 
whether Whitefield failed in its duty to A in not telling the insurer this and, if so, whether A 
has lost out as a result.
Im conscious that Mrs H has provided a lot of testimony and commentary about the 
liquidation. But I can also see that the insurer has separately told this Service that the 
primary issue is that A had previously had a policy avoided. The insurer has said that it 
would not have insured A had the avoidance been disclosed even if Whitefield had told the 
insurer about the liquidation in question. So, while I note all of Mrs Hs comments about the 
liquidation concern, I dont think it was relevant to the insurers decision to avoid the policy. 
Given this, Im not going to comment on this further.
As I said, there is no dispute Whitefield didnt tell the insurer about the previous avoidance. 
Mrs H says Whitefield should have done a full fact find to gather all the correct information 
when the policy started, given it was a new policy. I agree that it needed to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the information it presented to the insurer was correct. But I also dont think 
it was unreasonable for it to take into consideration the information it had been provided 
before. So, I dont think it had to contact Mrs H to do a full fact find and it was entitled to use 
the information it had been given before to present the risk to the new insurer. With this in 
mind, Ive thought about whats happened previously and whether it should have reasonably 
been aware from previous communication with Mrs H and her late husband during the time 
Whitefield has been arranging insurance for A that it had had a policy avoided.
Whitefield has provided previous statement of facts. I can see in the first policy it arranged 
for A in 2015 and in subsequent policies, it has set out on the statement of fact that A had 
not had any insurance policies cancelled before. So it seems that it wasnt aware before 
about any policy cancellations. I cant know the precise content of any conversations 
Whitefield may have had with either Mr or Mrs H in 2015 because it was eight years ago. But 
Whitefield has sent out statement of facts every year since 2015 at each renewal and I 
havent seen anything to show that they were told the information about previous 
cancellations was incorrect.
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show that Whitefield was aware that A had had an 
insurance policy cancelled before. In addition to this, as As director, it was also Mrs Hs 
responsibility to ensure that the information Whitefield had presented was accurate. 
Whitefield sent a copy of the statement of fact to Mrs H and Im satisfied its likely it did 
speak with her and she confirmed the information on the form was correct.I naturally sympathise with the situation Mrs H has found herself in. I can only imagine how 
distressing this matter has been for her. But I havent seen anything to show that Whitefield 
has acted unfairly in exercising its duty as As broker.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H  on behalf 
of A  to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman