DRN-2184646
The complaint
Mr J says he never asked Allay Claims Ltd to act for him in a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) claim. And the signature they had wasnt his.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr J was told by his lender that hed a successful PPI claim, and the 
amount of compensation hed receive. A few days later Mr J was asked by Allay to pay their 
fee for his successful claim. Mr J said hes never asked Allay to act on his behalf in making a 
PPI claim. And complained to them.
Allay said Mr J made an online application in June 2019 for them to carry out a free PPI 
check with his lenders. They said hed also signed a letter of authority (LoA) authorising 
them to make a PPI claim for him, should any PPI be found. In July 2019 Allay said they told 
Mr J that PPI had been found. And hed completed a PPI questionnaire (PPIQ) which they 
took as his instruction to pursue his claim, they submitted his claim to his lender in the same 
month.
In September 2019 Mr Js lender told them his claim was successful. Mr J hadnt cancelled 
the agreement hed made them within the 14-day cooling off period. And as his claim was 
successful, Allay said their fee was due. 
Mr J wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us. He said the 
signature Allay had wasnt his. And he hadnt authorised them to pursue a PPI claim for him. 
He also said hed made a claim direct with his lender.
Our investigator said Allay had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with their terms and 
conditions. He said Mr J had more likely than not authorised Allay to act on his behalf and he 
hadnt cancelled the agreement. He said Allay could charge their success fee.
Mr J didnt agree and reiterated that the application was fraudulent. And that Allay had also 
added a taxable element into their fee calculations. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this  complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, we arent handwriting 
experts, that would be for a criminal court to decide. Were an informal dispute resolution 
service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means were impartial and look at both 
sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story because of who they are. 
We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. Where there is a different 
version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision on what I think most likely 
happened  the balance of probability.
I can understand Mr Js frustration as he is adamant, he hasnt asked Allay to act for him in 
making a PPI claim with his lender. So, Ive considered whether Mr J authorised Allay to act 
for him in submitting a PPI claim. And if he did, whether he let them know he no longer 
wanted them to work for him. And to see whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions with Mr J.
Mr J doesnt dispute he asked Allay to carry out a free PPI check for him. Allay has shown 
an online application for a free PPI check was made in June 2019. The personal details in 
this application correlate with the personal details Mr J has given this service. The 
application also needed details of Mr Js lenders, and these details were also provided. A 
LoA would have been generated by the application, populated with the supplied information. 
I know Mr J doesnt think he added his signature. But the free PPI check cant be submitted 
without one. And as the application was submitted, Ive no reason to doubt a signature was 
added at this time. The supplied information is specific to Mr J and the application would 
have been made for his benefit to seek redress for a mis-sold PPI policy.  So, on balance I 
think it would have been Mr J who completed and submitted the on-line application. 
Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in submitting the LoA Mr J had 
agreed to them. Allays terms and conditions say:
We will carry out a free PPI check. We will notify you once PPI has been identified and 
submit your complaint to the lender following your instruction. Your instruction can be given 
by completing the postal Claim Questionnaire, submitting the Claim Questionnaire online or 
over the telephone with Allay. For Plevin (excessive commissions)claim(s), your signed and 
dated Letter of Authority is your instruction to submit the claim. If the claim is successful, our 
normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will apply.
In July 2019, I can see Mr Js lender told Allay theyd identified a PPI policy that hed taken 
out. Allay sent a  Fantastic News  message to Mr J, telling him that PPI had been found. 
And to make sure he didnt lose the opportunity to make a claim for PPI before the deadline 
for making such claims was reached (29 August 2019) theyd submitted his claim to his 
lender.
Allay has also shown after being told Mr J had PPI they sent him, on 17 July 2019, a PPIQ 
through a link for him to complete. And the completed PPIQ was returned 18 July 2019. The 
information included in this questionnaire was also specific to Mr J. So, Ive no reason to 
doubt the information was supplied by Mr J and that Allay would have taken this as Mr Js 
instruction to submit his claim.
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. To cancel your contract with us, either call Customer 
Services on 0191 462 0000, email your cancellation request to cancellations@allay.co.uk, 
download a Cancellation Form from our website www.allay.co.uk or write to us at The 
Processing Centre, Trafalgar Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 2LA.
Allay has shown they submitted the PPIQ to Mr Js lender on 22 July 2019. If I calculate this 
date as being the point at which the 14-day cooling off period began Mr J had up to 5 August 
2019 to cancel his agreement with Allay. And if Mr J was certain he hadnt asked Allay to 
work for him, he could have upon being told about PPI being found taken this opportunity to 
ask Allay about their involvement. And to cancel it at no charge. Mr J said  he wasnt able to respond to the emails he received from Allay, as they were no reply . But the above terms 
and conditions show that this wasnt the only communication channel open to Mr J. Allay had 
given a telephone number and an address for him to write to. I cant hold Allay responsible 
for Mr J not using either of these options. And I dont think it was enough by Mr J not 
engaging with Allay to consider this as him cancelling his agreement with them. I cant see 
any evidence that despite opportunities for Mr J to speak to or get in touch with Allay, it 
wasnt until after his claim was successful that he questioned Allays involvement. 
I can see Mr Js lender got in touch with him in August 2019 to verify information they had. 
But this was after Allay had already submitted his claim. I havent seen any evidence that 
Mr J directly asked his lender to investigate a mis-sold PPI policy for him before or after this. 
And Mr Js lender wouldnt have looked at the mis-selling complaint without a claim being 
made before the 29 August 2019 deadline for making such claims.
In September 2019, I can see Mr Js lender told both him and Allay his claim for the mis-
selling of a PPI policy was successful. I think this shows they saw Allay as Mr Js sole 
representative. So, Im persuaded that Mr J authorised Allay to act on his behalf.
The agreement Mr J had with Allay was based on a No Win No Fee. This means Allay 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually 
undertook. Any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We are entitled to receive 24% (inclusive of VAT where applicable) of redress recovered 
relating to all accounts with your lenders, no matter if received after the initial
settlement, whether the redress was received in whole or part by way of loan/arrears 
reduction, refund of premiums, and/or in cash. This fee is calculated before any
applicable tax payment/deduction for which you are liable (gross amount).
Mr Js claim was successful, and Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr J agreed to 
and reflect the fee cap thats in place for PPI claims.
I know Mr J will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at the evidence provided 
I think, on balance, Allay had been authorised to act on his behalf to pursue his claim for 
mis-sold PPI.  And he didnt cancel his agreement with them within the 14-day cooling off 
period. So, I think Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in what they have done, and they 
can charge their success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman