DRN-1795751
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a number of packaged 
bank account. His account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-paying Silver account in April 2008
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account in October 2009
Downgraded to a fee free Classic account in May 2010
Upgraded to a Silver account in August 2010
Upgraded to a Platinum account in January 2011
 Hes used a Claims Management Company (CMC) to make this complaint. 
What happened
Lloyds said that we cant look at the complaint that relates to the first Silver account and both 
Platinum accounts. But Lloyds said that we can look at the sale of the Silver account that 
was taken out in August 2010. One of our adjudicators looked into this and agreed that the 
complaint about the sale of the first Silver account and both Platinum accounts were brought 
too late. Mr R did not object to this.
A different adjudicator investigated the sale of the Silver account taken out in August 2010 
complaint already and she did not think that this account was mis-sold. Mr Rs representative 
did not agree with this and therefore this complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
This decision will only be looking at the sale of the Silver account that was taken out in 
August 2010.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Rs complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to Mr R. Id like to explain why I think thats the case. 
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr R was given a fair choice to take out the Silver 
account. I can see that Mr R had held a free account with Lloyds prior to this upgrade, so I 
think that he would have been reasonably aware that Lloyds did free accounts and they were 
an option for him.
In fact, based on Lloyds notes at the time of the sale, Mr R specifically requested the Silver 
account. Given that he had held a Silver account in the past and previously had held a fee-
free account, I think that overall, he asked for this account knowing that he did not have to 
have it. Also as it appears that he actively chose to upgrade to the Silver account, this 
strongly suggests that he was attracted to some of the benefits that the account came with.
Lloyds and Mr R have said that the Silver account was recommended to Mr R. Due to this 
Lloyds had to ensure that the account was right for him. 
In this instance the major benefits that the account came with were European travel 
insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. I note that Mr R has said that he 
did travel, did not own a car and did not own a smart phone. But the notes from the sale 
suggest that Mr R was intending to register a mobile phone once he bought a new one. So, I 
think that its possible he couldve found the travel insurance and mobile phone insurance 
benefit useful. This is the cheapest account that was available that had these benefits. 
Therefore, I dont think that Lloyds recommendation was inappropriate.
I accept that Mr R may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with, but I cannot see anything specific that he was not told that I think 
wouldve altered his decision to take out the account. 
Mr R may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe he hasnt benefitted from the account as 
much he had hoped and expected when he initially took it out. And given what he may have 
read and heard about packaged accounts, I can understand why he might now believe this 
account was mis-sold. But I dont think he was misled into taking it. 
So I want to reassure Mr R that having looked at everything provided and thought about 
what hes said, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account taken out in August 2010. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman