DRN-2763907
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Saga Services Limited recorded an incident on the renewal 
documents for his motor insurance policy. He wants this changed. 
What happened
The wheel of Mr Ss car sheared off and flew over a hedge. A roadside assistance company 
attended and described the incident as Wheel had sheared off. But when Mr S received his 
renewal documents, he found that Saga had described the incident as hit parked TP or 
immobile property. Mr S thought the damage may have been caused by potholes and he 
thought Sagas description was inaccurate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Saga 
was limited in how it could describe the incident and she thought it had chosen the most 
suitable description. So she didnt think it needed to change this.
Mr S replied that he thought Saga should have a free text option to record incidents 
accurately. He thought this would benefit insurers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S feels that recording the incident accurately would benefit insurers 
as they would then have a better understanding of the causes of incidents. But I can see that 
Saga has a limited list of incident descriptions that it uses and doesnt have a free text 
option. Sagas systems and processes are not something that this service would normally 
interfere with as they are a legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement. So Im not able 
to tell it to change how it chooses to record incidents.
What I have considered is whether Saga used the most appropriate option to record the 
incident. And Ive considered whether its done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly in 
this. 
Saga said Mr S didnt hit another vehicle, and so it recorded the incident as hitting an 
immobile property. Ive looked at the list of descriptions Saga had to choose between, and I 
think the one it chose was the most suitable. I think it most closely of the limited choices 
describes what occurred. So I cant say Saga did anything wrong in this. 
Saga said the descriptors are available on its website or the investigator can send Mr S a 
copy if he so wishes.
Mr S has also raised concerns about how his insurer dealt with his claim. But I cant consider 
those here as the insurer is a separate business to Saga. I can see that the investigator has 
forwarded Mr Ss complaint to the insurer and asked it to respond to Mr S directly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman