DRN-3107754
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund transactions carried out on her 
account that she didnt authorise. And shed like a refund. 
What happened
Mrs S has an account with HSBC. 
Mrs S explains that between October 2019 and July 2020 a significant number of 
transactions totalling over £20,000 were carried out without her consent to a high street store 
Ill call S. 
HSBC looked into Mrs Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. They concluded that Mrs S was 
liable for the transactions  they thought she likely carried them out or consented for a third 
party to do so. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with HSBCs response so complained to our service.
On initially being allocated Mrs Ss complaint, our investigator wasnt sure which transactions 
on her HSBC account she was disputing. She tried to make contact with Mrs S, but wasnt 
successful so decided to issue a view without Mrs Ss comments. Our investigator concluded 
that Mrs S most likely authorised the disputed transactions. However, Mrs S contacted our 
service and explained that she actually disputed different transactions. She explained that 
shed hadnt carried out any of the payments to S and all the payments to S from around 
October 2019 to the middle of June 2020 werent authorised. Mrs S also explained that she 
didnt carry out any transactions online. 
Our investigator contacted HSBC for more information regarding the transactions to S. And 
on being provided with the audit trail our investigator was satisfied they were carried out by 
chip and PIN and contactless on two different debit cards. Our investigator thought Mrs S 
should be held liable for the transactions  in summary she said:
Theres no explanation for how a fraudster obtained Mrs Ss PIN.
The transactions were carried out across two cards.
The fraudster would have needed to take and replace Mrs Ss cards on several 
occasions. 
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In response she said:
When she visited an ATM machine there was a camera and it took a photograph of 
her card and PIN. 
The transactions were carried out online and she doesnt do any shopping online. 
As Mrs S didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, HSBC can hold Mrs S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests
that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mrs Ss genuine cards and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case, the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017, say that is not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC to 
hold her liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mrs S consented to the transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude that Mrs S 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
Mrs Ss genuine card and PIN was used to carry out the majority of the disputed 
transactions. Mrs S has explained that she used an ATM machine outside a shop 
and a camera took a photograph of her card and PIN. I accept that its possible 
Mrs Ss PIN was captured by a camera in an ATM  however Ive not seen any 
evidence to support this. If Mrs S also had her card returned to her, as she describes, 
I find it surprising that a fraudster would take a photograph of the PIN. I say this as 
from the evidence Ive seen both of Mrs Ss genuine cards were used for the 
disputed transactions  therefore her card cant have been cloned in the way she 
describes.
The disputed transactions occurred over a 9 month period, and on two separate debit 
cards. This means that a fraudster would have needed to obtain both of Mrs Ss 
cards without her knowledge. 
Theres also a significant amount of genuine spend in between the disputed 
transactions  this means that a fraudster would have needed to take and replace 
both of Mrs Ss cards on numerous occasions without her knowledge. I think this is 
unlikely. 
Mrs S also received a refund of £140 from S in October 2019. I cant see how a 
fraudster would benefit from claiming a refund or take such a risk in returning the 
goods.  
Mrs S also responded to our investigators view by advising that she doesnt shop online. As 
Ive already explained all the transactions Mrs S has disputed were carried out, in person via 
Chip and PIN or contactless. Therefore Mrs Ss response doesnt change my conclusions. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mrs S but for the reasons Ive outlined above, I think on 
balance she likely consented to the transactions and Im satisfied that HSBC are entitled to 
hold her liable for the transactions. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman