DRN-3262569
The complaint
Mr R complains about charges he was invoiced for, by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited (MBFS), when he returned a car early that he had taken possession of under 
a hire purchase agreement (agreement) in 2017.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr R entered into an agreement with MBFS for a new car costing 
£14,861.96.
Under the terms of this agreement, everything else being equal, Mr R undertook to pay a 
deposit of £317.59, 48 monthly payments of £230.00 and, in the event he wanted to keep 
the car rather than returning it, a payment of £5,035.00  making a total repayable of 
£16,392.59 at an APR of 3.9%.
Under the terms of the agreement Mr R also had the right to end the agreement at any time, 
with MBFS, in return, being entitled to the return of the car plus at least half the total amount 
payable under the agreement of £8,196.30 and anything to fairly compensate it for damage 
to the car that was deemed beyond fair wear and tear.
In early 2021 Mr R, as he was entitled to, ended the agreement, and returned the car to 
MBFS.
After the car had been returned (and inspected) MBFS invoiced Mr R for excess milage 
travelled and for four items of damage (a missing tyre sealant at £60 and damage to three 
alloys at £330 [£110 per alloy])
On receipt of the above Mr R complained to MBFS to say that although he accepted he was 
liable to pay the excess mileage charge, he didnt agree with the damage charges totalling 
£390 (£330 plus £60).
MBFS considered Mr Rs complaint and agreed to remove the £60 missing sealant charge, 
but it said it stood by the remaining damage charges of £330.
Unhappy with MBFS response to his complaint, Mr R referred it to our service.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He said that as Mr R wasnt 
disputing the excess mileage charge, the missing sealant charge had been waived by MBFS 
and Mr R wasnt disputing the three alloys were damaged, just the cost for the same, he had 
restricted his consideration to whether MBFS was entitled to charge Mr R  and seek 
recovery from him  the sum of £330 at £110 per alloy. And he was satisfied that it was.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr R isnt disputing MBFSs right to charge him for excess mileage, that MBFS 
has agreed to waive the £60 charge for the tyre sealant and Mr R accepts three of the alloys 
were damaged (beyond fair wear and tear), I, like the investigator, have restricted my 
consideration in this case to whether MBFS acted fair and reasonably in charging Mr R £330 
for the three damaged alloys.
Now I accept that Mr R could have had the three alloys repaired for a lessor sum than MBFS 
charged him. But it was open to Mr R to have any damage repaired himself (to a satisfactory 
standard) before the car was returned. 
MBFS are entitled to charge for damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear and the fact 
that repairs can be carried out more cheaply elsewhere doesnt mean that MBFS charges 
are unreasonable. Similarly, theres no obligation on MBFS to carry out the repairs. 
If the repairs arent carried out this is reflected in the reduction of the cars value when it 
comes to be sold at auction, for which MBFS should be compensated. I would also add that 
despite what Mr R might believe to the contrary, Im satisfied that any damage not repaired 
by MBFS would have had an effect on the resale value. 
So, taking everything into account Im satisfied that the charges of £330 are reasonable and 
MBFS need neither reduce, nor waive, them.
For the sake of completeness, I would add that MBFS right to charge for damage  on the 
return of the car to it  is derived from the terms of the agreement Mr R signed in 
November 2017. And Im satisfied that this right remained available to MBFS regardless of 
what Mr R says about what he was sent, should have been sent, was advised or wasnt 
advised by the dealership to which the car was returned to, the content of MBFS website 
and what he did, or didnt sign, on retuning the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited is entitled to seek 
recovery from Mr R £330 for what it says was damage to three alloys.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman