DRN-2911282
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc unfairly declined his application for a new business 
bank account, which meant he couldnt then apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr F held a personal account with Bank of Scotland. On 3 February 2020 he began 
operating his business through that account. Later, when Mr F applied to open a business 
account with Bank of Scotland to enable him to apply for a Bounce Back Loan, the bank 
declined his application. 
Mr F complained to Bank of Scotland about their decision. They told him his business 
account application was declined because it didnt meet their criteria. They said Mr Fs 
personal account needed to show business-related credits by 3 March 2020 and because it 
didnt, the application couldnt be accepted. 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service. He believed the timeframe the bank needed to 
see such credits was too short and declining his application for that reason was unfair. Mr F 
has told us he has since successfully obtained a Bounce Back Loan with another provider. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. She said Bank of Scotland were free to 
require that Mr F enter into a business relationship with them before it would consider a loan 
application from him. And she didnt think the bank had declined Mr Fs business account 
application unreasonably, because thered been no business-related credits in his personal 
account within the timeframe required by the bank. That being the case, she didnt think the 
bank was able to verify that Mr F met the minimum turnover requirement of £8,000 under the 
Bounce Back Loan eligibility criteria.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators conclusion and has asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He explained that the only eligibility criterion he didnt meet was the 
absence of any business credits before 3 March 2020 - but said since hed not been using the 
account to trade for more than a month and generally invoices were paid on a 30-day 
turnaround, it was unfair to decline his application on that basis. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators conclusions for broadly the same reasons.
I start by saying I dont think Bank of Scotland treated Mr F unfairly when they required him 
to open a business account before he could apply for a Bounce Back Loan. 
As the investigator noted, under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules, banks had some 
discretion to decide the basis on which they would accept applications, including whether to 
require that applicants have a business relationship. Bank of Scotland required existing 
customers who didnt have a business relationship to open a new business account to 
establish such a relationship. 
Bank of Scotlands account opening criteria at the time of Mr Fs application required that 
business credits had been made to the personal account prior to 3 March 2020. It was a 
matter for the bank to decide such criteria  and this doesnt seem unreasonable, as a 
means of verifying customers eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, which required 
applicants to have been carrying on business on 1 March 2020. 
Mr F didnt meet the criteria. His account showed no business credits before 3 March 2020. 
Whilst I understand Mr Fs disappointment that there was insufficient time for such credits to 
appear in his account., I dont think I can fairly say the bank treated Mr F unfairly when they 
declined to offer him a business account on the basis his application didnt meet their 
criteria. 
I note Mr F has been able to obtain a Bounce Back Loan from another provider. But this 
doesnt automatically mean the decision Bank of Scotland made at the time to decline his 
application was wrong or unfair  and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it was.
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman