DRN-4452688
The complaint
Miss G is complaining about Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance 
(Oodle). She says they acted irresponsibly when deciding to lend to her as the agreement 
was unaffordable. 
What happened
In November 2019, Miss G took out a hire purchase agreement with Oodle to finance the 
purchase of a car. She borrowed £4,000 - the cash price of the vehicle. The agreement 
required Miss G to make an initial payment of £187.67, 58 monthly payments of £136.67, 
and a final payment of £187.67 (including an option to purchase fee of £50). The total 
amount payable was £8,300.20. 
In July 2023, Miss G complained to Oodle, saying they should never have lent to her. She 
said her credit report at the time would have shown she had missed three payments to a 
debt collector and had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) against her. So, she said, it should 
have been obvious that she was struggling with her finances. 
Oodle didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. They said shed told them her income at the time of 
the application was £16,500 per year and shed been in her job for over three years. They 
also said she was a private tenant and had been at her address for 22 years. They said they 
used Office for National Statistics (ONS) data and Miss Gs credit file to validate her income 
and estimate her expenditure and calculated that she would have net monthly disposable 
income of around £207 from which to make the payments of £137 per month. On this basis 
Oodle felt the loan was affordable.
Miss G brought her complaint to our service, saying Oodle had the wrong information about 
her employment  instead she was in short-term employment on variable income and was 
also on benefits. She still felt Oodle hadnt done proper checks when lending to her. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Gs complaint but didnt uphold it. Although he felt 
Oodle hadnt done proportionate checks he said he didnt have enough information or 
evidence about what Miss Gs financial circumstances were at the time of the loan. So he 
couldnt say Oodle shouldnt have lent to Miss G. Miss G thought she had provided enough 
information and asked for an ombudsmans decision  and the complaints come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Oodle carry out proportionate checks?
Oodle said that before deciding to lend to Miss G, they checked her credit file, verified her 
income using credit reference agency data, and estimated her expenditure using ONS data. 
Whether or not this was proportionate depends on many factors including the size and term 
of the loan, and what Oodle found.  
Looking at Miss Gs credit report, Oodle could see she had a CCJ recorded in March 2019, 
for an amount of £264. Theyd also have been able to see Miss G had three defaulted 
communications accounts, all of which defaulted in 2016. Miss G also had an unsecured 
loan which defaulted in September 2018.
The details Oodle had from Miss Gs application showed she was a tenant earning a gross 
annual salary of £16,500. I appreciate Miss Gs disputed the information about her 
employment and earnings but Ive seen the electronic application Oodle relied on and I cant 
say they shouldnt have used this information. Oodle said they verified Miss Gs income 
using data from one of the credit reference agencies. These sorts of checks look at the total 
receipts into bank accounts. Having seen Miss Gs bank statements, I can understand why 
Oodle were able to verify Miss Gs income this way  though Miss G has since said some of 
the receipts into her bank accounts were for the benefit of her mother.
CONC allows firms to use statistical data in their affordability assessments unless they have 
reason to suspect that a customers non-discretionary expenditure is significantly higher than 
that described in the data. In this case, Miss Gs recent default and CCJ suggested that she 
might be in financial difficulties  and therefore that her non-discretionary expenditure might 
be higher than described in the data. In addition, the loan was for a period of five years, and 
Miss G had a relatively low stated income. So Im not satisfied it was proportionate for Oodle 
to rely on the statistical data. I think they should have done more to understand and verify 
Miss Gs income and expenditure.
If Oodle had done proportionate checks, what would they have found?
Proportionate checks would have involved Oodle finding out more about Miss Gs income 
and expenditure to determine whether shed be able to make the repayments in a 
sustainable way.
Weve asked Miss G about her income and expenditure at the time of her application but its 
been difficult to build up a clear picture. In her initial complaint to Oodle she said her income 
was £667 per month, non-discretionary expenditure was £440 per month and payments to 
creditors were more than £200 per month. But looking at Miss Gs bank statements for 
August 2019 to October 2019 Ive not been able to verify these amounts.
Instead, what I can see is that Miss G was receiving earnings into her account which 
averaged around £350 per month. And she was receiving benefits totalling around £1,360 
per month. Miss G has told us some of these benefits were for her mother  its difficult to 
identify this on her statements but shes said it was £383 each fortnight. That would have left 
Miss G with income of £944 per month. So Im satisfied that if Oodle had carried out 
proportionate checks theyd have been able to verify Miss G had income of her own of at 
least around £950 per month.
Turning to Miss Gs expenditure, shes given us no information about her living costs other 
than what Ive set out above. Looking at her bank statements, Ive not been able to identify 
any significant payments for housing, council tax or utilities, although she was paying around £50 per month to a social landlord. In addition to this, she was spending around £80 per 
month on phone and TV costs, £135 on road tax and car insurance, and around £450 per 
month on food and fuel. Its not clear to what extent any of this expenditure was on behalf of 
Miss Gs mother. For simplicity Ive assumed that these were all Miss Gs costs, and that this 
is what shed have told Oodle if theyd asked her about her non-discretionary expenditure at 
the time. In total, then, this meant Miss G had committed and non-discretionary expenditure 
of around £715 per month, leaving around £235 from which to make the £137 payments 
each month to Oodle.
Miss G said she was also paying creditors. Ive seen no evidence of that on her bank 
statements and her credit report shows only defaulted accounts at the time (apart from £17 
per month for her phone which Ive included in my analysis above). Miss Gs defaulted 
balances totalled £900 at the time of her application. Paying 5% of that each month would 
have allowed her to repay the balances within a reasonable timeframe  and would have 
meant her paying £45 per month. If Oodle had taken that figure into account theyd still have 
calculated Miss G had disposable income of over £50 per month. Whilst I appreciate this 
isnt a large sum, Im satisfied in the circumstances it would have been enough for Oodle to 
decide the loan was affordable for Miss G.
In summary, although I appreciate it will be disappointing for Miss G, Im not upholding her 
complaint. Im not persuaded Oodles checks were proportionate in the circumstances, but I 
havent seen enough evidence of Miss Gs financial circumstances at the time to say Oodle 
wouldnt have been able to fairly lend to her if they had done proportionate checks.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint about Oodle Financial 
Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman