DRN-4084094
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly granted him two credit accounts 
that he says he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr S entered into agreements with NewDay to have access to credit with two separate credit 
card accounts. The first, an Aqua account, was opened for him in December 2018 with a 
credit limit of £600. The credit limit was then increased several times, reaching £5,050 in 
April 2022. The second account, an Amazon credit card, was opened for him in February 
2019 with an initial credit limit of £500. This was increased to £1,500 in July 2019. 
I understand that the Amazon credit account is now closed with no outstanding balance left 
on it. 
Mr S says that NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened each 
of these accounts. He says if it had, it would have seen that they werent affordable for him 
as he didnt have enough income to make the repayments and was experiencing financial 
difficulties. 
NewDay didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment 
to check Mr Ss financial circumstances before granting him each of the two accounts. 
Our adjudicator recommended that both accounts be partially upheld, from the point when 
the credit limit on the Aqua card was increased to £2,100 in November 2019. NewDay didnt 
agree and said that Mr S appeared to be managing to repay both accounts and was not 
financially overstretched. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Before granting these two accounts, NewDay needed to look into Mr Ss financial situation. 
Account openings
At the time of granting the Aqua account in December 2018, Mr S had an annual declared 
income of around £15,000. This worked out as being a take home pay each month of around 
£1,150. Ive seen that at this point he had around £3,000 in other unsecured lending. The 
checks NewDay carried out didnt show evidence of him getting into financial difficulty 
elsewhere, such as having defaults on other lending or having to take out pay day loans. But 
given that Mr S was already amassing a significant level of borrowing elsewhere, relative to 
his income , I think it would have been proportionate for NewDay to carry out more checks in 
order to better understand Mr Ss financial situation. This might include finding out more 
about Mr Ss regular living costs and any other non-discretionary spending.
At the time of granting the Amazon account, Mr S stated that he now had a lower annual 
income, being £13,000. This worked out at just over a £1,000 per month in take home pay. I 
think again it would have been proportionate for NewDay to carry out better checks in order 
to have a fuller understanding Mr Ss financial situation. I say this especially since there 
appears to have been a relatively rapid escalation of his level of committed credit elsewhere 
in a short period of time, having increased to £6,800.  
Credit limit increases 
In July 2019 NewDay granted credit limit increases on both cards  on the Aqua card up to 
£1,350 and on the Amazon card up to £1,500. So by then Mr S had total available credit with 
NewDay of £2,850. Given that  I can see from NewDays credit file information that Mr S by 
this point already had around £6,600 in other committed debt, I again think NewDay ought to 
have done more so as to take a proportionate look into his financial circumstances. I cant 
say exactly what NewDay would have found as Mr S didnt provide our adjudicator with 
details of his daily expenditure, for example by way of bank statements. 
In November 2019, NewDay again increased the credit limit on Mr Ss Aqua account, from 
£1,350 up to £2,100. That means Mr S now had a total available credit with NewDay of 
£3,600. He also had other external credit of around £8,400 with NewDay. At that time, Mr S 
owed £1,700 on his Aqua account and £1,500 on his Amazon account. Putting all this together, Mr S owed just short of £12,000 in unsecured debt at that point. Were Mr S to be 
able to afford to make sustainable payments of say 5% of what he owed he would have had 
to find about £600  more than half his income - from his net salary of around £1,000, to be 
able to meet those payments. I think that demonstrates that by this point, whilst its quite 
likely that Mr S had been starting to struggle with meeting all his credit payments in 
July 2019, by November 2019 it can definitely be seen from the available information about 
his financial situation that he was no longer able to pay off the total of what he owed on a  
sustainable basis. 
It follows that Im in agreement that by November 2019, the level of credit granted by 
NewDay to Mr S had become unsustainable. And I think that having the use of the total 
available NewDay credit of £3,600 was very likely not be enough to leave Mr S with sufficient 
means to meet his essential living costs, committed expenditure and other unsecured debt 
repayments. 
NewDay has pointed out that in November 2019 Mr S was paying off three loans by way of 
relatively low payments. But I dont consider that alone as being enough to show that 
NewDays lending was likely to have been affordable to Mr S in the longer term. He had 
other non-discretionary costs he still had to meet, such as a monthly insurance payment of 
£89. I also think that borrowing at a low repayment rate can also be suggestive of Mr S 
already getting into difficulty with his finances. I also dont think that the fact Mr S was able to 
make payments above the minimum and didnt incur late fees or other charges with his 
NewDay credit is in itself enough to demonstrate that Mr Ss level of borrowing was likely to 
have been sustainable. 
I therefore agree that by November 2019 NewDay ought to have been aware that Mr S was 
not in a position to take on and manage this additional credit. 
Putting things right  what NewDay needs to do
Rework Mr Ss Aqua and Amazon card accounts to ensure that all interest and 
charges should be removed for balances over £2,850, being the total of the 
previous credit limit increase for the two accounts. All late payment and over-limit 
fees should also be removed; and
Rework both accounts removing all interest and charges that have been 
applied. 
If an outstanding balance remains on either of the two accounts once these 
adjustments have been made, NewDay should contact Mr S to arrange an 
affordable repayment plan for the account. Once Mr S has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file 
from 3 November 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. NewDay 
should also remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file from 
3 November 2019. HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I therefore partially uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to pay compensation in 
respect of the Aqua and Amazon card accounts as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman