DRN-3270162
The complaint
Mrs U complains that a car she took on hire purchase from FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd 
did not meet the specifications she was promised. She wants to reject it.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs U ordered a new car from a dealership. She was replacing a 2016 car 
of the same model and has explained that she wanted her new car to have the same 
features as her existing model. They included parking sensors and automatic lights and 
wipers. She discussed her requirements with the dealership, took a test drive and then 
placed an order. The order form indicated that the expected delivery date was at the end of 
April 2020.
The order form also listed the options that Mrs U had chosen for the car. Some options were 
individual items and some came as packs of upgrades to the basic model. The options Mrs 
U chose included:
Function pack 2;
Parking pack;
Black line pack;
Beats audio system; and
Mud flaps.
Delivery was delayed beyond the end of April 2020 and Mrs U collected the car in June 
2020, when she entered into a hire purchase arrangement with FCA. When she collected the 
car, however, Mrs U found that it did not have all the features she was expecting. It did not 
have automatic lights or wipers. In addition, she said that the parking sensors would start 
when there was nothing near the car; the hill start function did not work properly; and the 
mud flaps had not been fitted. She returned to the dealership. It said that the car was the 
one she had ordered and had the features she had chosen. Mrs U referred the matter to 
FCA. It said much the same as the dealership had. In summary:
Automatic headlights and wipers were available in the optional Visibility Pack. Mrs U 
had not selected that option.
The parking sensors were not faulty but were sensitive.
The mud flaps should have been fitted and it was willing to arrange this.
The hill start function would work if the start/stop function were disabled.
Mrs U referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought that Mrs U had been told that the car would come with automatic lights and wipers 
and that Mrs U had been induced by that statement into buying it. He therefore 
recommended that Mrs U be allowed to reject the car and that appropriate refunds be made, 
with interest. FCA did not accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion, issued a provisional 
decision. I set out below my provisional findings:
In my view there are three main issues I need to consider in this case. They are:
Did FCA, through the dealership, supply Mrs U with the car she had ordered and paid 
for?
Did the dealership mislead her about the car? and
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
Depending on the answers to those questions, I must then consider what, if anything, FCA 
should do to put things right.
Did FCA supply Mrs U with the car she had ordered and paid for?
The order form set out the make and model of the car that Mrs U ordered and the optional 
extras she had chosen. FCA and the dealership say that, if Mrs U had wanted automatic 
lights and wipers, she needed to choose the Visibility Pack option. I have seen a copy of the 
manufacturers brochure from the time (published in November 2019) which supports that. 
Automatic lights and wipers were not a standard feature but were included in the Visibility 
Pack. Mrs U did not order that pack.
Mrs U did however order a Beats audio system, an upgrade on the Uconnect system listed 
in the brochure as standard specification. She says however that the car was fitted with a 
Kenwood system. The investigator noted that the Beats and Kenwood systems are similarly 
priced. Ill discuss the effect of that when I consider appropriate redress, but in this respect I 
do not believe that Mrs U received what was agreed.
FCA and the dealership have acknowledged too that the car should have been fitted with 
mudguards. The dealership offered to fit them.
Did the dealership mislead Mrs U about the car?
The investigator thought that the dealership had told Mrs U that the car would have 
automatic lights and wipers. Mrs U says that she was told her new car would have the same 
features as the car she took on a test drive. It seems however that the specification may 
have been changed at around that time, so that features that were standard changed from 
time to time.
I note however that the November 2019 brochure did not list those features as standard on 
Mrs Us model, but it did list them as part of the Visibility Pack, available as an option. I have 
no doubt that they were a feature on the car Mrs U took for a test drive and on her previous 
car. I think it likely too that she was told her car would be the same as the car she took for a 
test drive. I dont think however that should be taken to mean that it would have all the same 
features; indeed, that could not have been the case, since Mrs U was able to choose from a 
wide range of optional extras.
But, even if I were to take a different view on that point, I believe that I would then need to 
consider what Mrs U would have done if she had been told that automatic lights and wipers 
were not standard but had to be bought as part of the Visibility Pack. I believe its likely that, 
rather than deciding not to go ahead with the deal, she would have added that pack to her 
order. That would have cost an additional £750.
Was the car faulty?Mrs U says that the parking sensors go off too frequently. The dealership says that they are 
operating as they should. It says too that the hill start function works best when the start/stop 
function is disengaged. That is, the issues that Mrs U has identified are not defects but 
features of the model. I accept of course that Mrs U may think that the car should be better 
designed. If, however, it is functioning as it was designed to function, I do not believe I can 
fairly say that the car is faulty.
Remedies
I have identified two areas in which I think there was a breach of the contract between FCA 
and Mrs U  the radio system and the mud flaps.
As far as the radio system is concerned, it appears that Mrs Us car was fitted with an 
upgraded system, but not the one she ordered. However, I have no reason to believe the 
two systems were significantly different or that Mrs U had any reason to prefer one 
manufacturer over the other. So, whilst this was technical breach, I am not persuaded at this 
stage that it has caused any loss to Mrs U or that it merits any compensation.
The dealership has agreed to fit the mud flaps, and I believe that is a reasonable resolution 
of that particular issue.
I did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs U did not accept my provisional conclusions. She said that she had not been given the 
opportunity of inspecting the car before she took it away and that the dealership had been 
told immediately about her concerns. The dealership had tried to activate missing functions 
but had been unable to do so. After several days it had said that it was not possible to retro-
fit the features Mrs U required. She says she has not been able to use the car and that she 
has been placed into financial difficulty as a result of what has happened.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue here appears to have arisen because the manufacturer changed the exact 
specification of the model that Mrs U ordered in the months before delivery. Of particular 
relevance is the fact that automatic headlights and wipers had been standard on the 
previous model but by the time her car was assembled were an optional extra. The car she 
ordered was however the car that was delivered  at least in the sense that it was the 
newest model with the upgrades she had specified. The only way she could have had 
automatic headlights and wipers would have been if she had been supplied with a model 
which was not the most up-to-date or if she had paid an additional £750 for the Visibility 
Pack. 
I have no doubt that Mrs U genuinely believed that automatic headlights and wipers were 
included as standard. I think it likely too that the dealership did not point out  and very 
possibly was not aware of the details of  the change in specification in or around early 
2020. I note that the order was placed in January 2020 with the expected delivery date in 
April. 
I am not persuaded however that it would be fair to make an award in Mrs Us favour as a 
result of the change in specification. As I have indicated, I think the car that was delivered 
matched the order. But in any event, I do not believe that Mrs U has suffered any loss. An identical car with the Visibility Pack may be worth slightly more than hers, but would have 
cost an additional £750. A 2019 model would not have been the same in other respects. 
I do not believe that the car was faulty, as Mrs U suggests. The matters which she thinks are 
unsatisfactory are features of the cars design  whether or not Mrs U thinks they should be. 
I note what Mrs U says about the radio system. It seems that the manufacturer changed the 
system on later 2020 models. I am not aware that one system is any better than the other, 
and some reviews suggest that the newer system is an improvement. I note that the 
dealership offered to fit mud flaps, in line with the order that Mrs U placed. She has also said 
that she paid for a cargo mat, which was included in the new specification. That was 
however included in the invoice. 
Finally, I note that Mrs U has said she has been unable to use the car. The concerns she 
has with it though do not in my view mean that it is unusable. Nor does it seem to me that 
the cars specification has contributed to any financial difficulties she may have. She is 
paying what she agreed to pay under the hire purchase agreement.     
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd 
to take any further steps to resolve Mrs Us complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman