DRN-3076950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Santander UK plc mis-sold them a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs E in 2003 in connection with 
additional borrowing on a mortgage theyd arranged with Santander in 2002. The policy 
provided Mr E with cover if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Es needs?
- Did Santander give Mr and Mrs E the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policy? 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs E are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs E say Santander encouraged them to buy the PPI and didnt give them a proper 
choice about taking it. They say they didnt realise the policy had been added to their 
account. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs E and 
Santander when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place nearly 
twenty years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Santander hasnt been able to provide much information from when the policy was sold, 
which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed. But the policy was sold by 
phone, and from what we know about Santanders phone sales at the time the bank 
wouldve made the optional nature of the policy clear to Mr and Mrs E. 
On balance I think its unlikely Santander wouldve added the PPI to Mr and Mrs Es account 
if they hadnt agreed to buy the cover. So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs 
E have told me, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that Santander didnt make them 
aware the PPI was optional.
Santander accepts that it advised Mr and Mrs E to take out the policy and it doesnt look like 
it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
- theres nothing to suggest that Mr E wasnt eligible for the cover. 
- Mr E says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because 
of sickness or accident, and that he already had an accident, sickness and 
unemployment (ASU) policy in place with another provider. Mr E also says he and 
Mrs E had some savings and that Mrs E had life cover. Ive noted all of the other 
means Mr and Mrs E have referred to.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Es employer sick pay and would do 
so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs E to 
use Mr Es employer benefits and their savings to cover other expenses. 
Mr E hasnt been able to provide a copy of the existing ASU policy he says was in 
place. Thats understandable given the amount of time thats passed. Hes provided a 
copy of a bank statement which he says shows a direct debit payment to the policy 
provider. But even if there was another policy in place, I cant be sure that it wouldve 
paid out on the same terms as the PPI, or provided the same benefits. So I cant 
safely say that the PPI was a duplicate of the policy Mr E says he already had.
Mrs Es life cover wouldve paid out on death, whereas the PPI covered accident and 
sickness. So again, Im not persuaded that the PPI was a duplicate of Mrs Es 
existing cover.
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs E would have had some use for the policy, despite their 
existing arrangements. 
- Mr E wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he and Mrs E needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs E 
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs E took out the policy knowing they 
would have to pay something for it, and it seems the policy was apparently affordable 
and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have made a 
different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr E wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman