DRN-3305165
The complaint
Mr A, through his representative, complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant) lent to him 
irresponsibly. He said it should not have given him such a big loan.  
What happened
In October 2015 Mr A was approved for a £5,000 loan repayable at just over £220 each 
month for 36 months. In July 2017 the loan was sold to a third party due to consistent 
failures to pay. 
Information Avant has supplied to us indicates that Mr A wanted the loan to consolidate 
other debts. Recently it has sent us a document listing those other debts which it says Mr A 
wanted to consolidate. 
Avant has information which states that Mr A had been self employed by a home-credit 
company as a salesman for seven months at the time he applied in October 2015. He had 
said he earned £1,600 a month. Later this figure seemed to alter to £2,371 a month and I will 
come back to this later in my decision. 
Avant had information that Mr As outgoings were £800 which included rent, car bills and 
some other items which did not seem to include credit commitments as it was not itemised 
as that on the information sent to us. And Avant had carried out a credit search which 
indicated in two different parts of that report at least that Mr As total monthly payments on 
all accounts excluding mortgage currently active was £572. 
After Mr A had complained, Avant sent its final response letter (FRL) and did not uphold his 
complaint. After it had been referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service, one of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that the information Avant saw from the 
checks it had carried out was concerning. And our adjudicator thought Avant should have 
done more before deciding to lend.
Avant then wrote to us to say that it wished to defend the complaint further and asked for it 
to be referred to an ombudsman. Avant sent a document indicating that the consolidation of 
Mr As other loans would have been beneficial to him: The loan for debt consolidation would 
remove all existing debt the customer had and provide a new monthly payment at £220, 
taking the customer's credit spending per month from 24% of their income to 9.3%.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Avant complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr A would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Avant to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr As ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr A undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr A. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Mr A was applying for £5,000 repayable over 36 months and as such I think that 
proportionate checks ought to have included a full financial assessment of his circumstances 
before lending. It was a large loan sum and spread over a significant period. I note what 
Avant did obtain, but I do not think that it went far enough. Alternatively, having obtained the 
information it did not apply that knowledge appropriately.
The first item I reviewed is the income and expenditure information. Mr As income was 
noted as £1,600. For a full financial review by Avant before lending, Id expect Mr As income 
to have been verified in some way. Mr A had told Avant he was self-employed and had been so for a relatively short period  
about seven months. My view is that a relatively new role self-employed individual usually 
requires a higher level of research to check that Mr As drawings from his self-employment 
was a regular figure. And what it was he could draw. And account notes do not show that 
Avant was having much success. Some of these are duplicated here and I have removed 
Avant employee names where necessary.  
Unable to automatically detect a Yodlee employer match. Manual review is required. 
Oct 7, 2015 10:03 PM by System
lvm for employer explanation cant not verify employer by yodlee Oct 8, 2015 12:51 
PM by
I understand that Yodlee is an automated process. 
One way to have verified this income would have been to ask to see Mr As records on his 
self-employed status and the drawings for the previous few months. Another could have 
been to have reviewed his bank statements. I think the latter option was what Avant was 
planning to do as there is an account note which says:
Note: Loan processing  IA  In Progress - Unable to verify income \\customer needs 
to submit 30 day bs.  Oct 8, 2015 4:51 PM by
I think its reasonable to interpret bs as bank statements as I know that is a verification 
route for lenders. 
Another note for the next day suggests that Avant had not been able to get hold of Mr A 
and/or had not received those bank statements and had had to use another route: 
VER: updated Yodlee to 'Verified Income amount from Income stated source' Oct 9, 
2015 1:59 PM
This suggests that Avant had approach the income stated source which I take to be the 
home credit business for which Mr A worked as a salesman. But Ive no other information 
about this. And so its not conclusive for me. I mention it here to show the history of the 
verification process as revealed by the Avant account notes Ive been sent.
Using additional information we have on our files from Mr A, I have seen that Mr As home-
credit employer was able to provide a list of payments made to him from early 2013 to early 
2014 (52 weeks) and the total had been around £10,000 across the whole year. 
From this I know two things: that Mr A could get that self-employed record of payments if 
Avant had asked him, and that in early 2014 he was earning around £10,000 a year. That 
does not translate to be £1,600 a month Avant had recorded as Mr As income in 
October 2015. And I accept that its feasible Mr As income had increased to £1,600. 
But what it does indicate to me is that the £2,371 a month figure Avant appears to have 
proceeded with as Mr As income seems less likely.  Another concern which, in my view demonstrates that Avant knew there was a discrepancy 
between the £1,600 monthly income figure and the £2,731 is revealed in this account note 
duplicated here: 
Email customer and inform them of new terms available, issue loan if customer does 
not respond by end of day. Cust claimed £1,600.00 of income on app, specialist 
verified £2,371.00 of income via Yodlee, which is £771.00 difference. Loan contract 
is valid: existing loan contract is for £5,000.00, 36 months, 39.8%, new terms 
available are £5,000.00, 36 months, approximately 40%. Oct 9, 2015 1:59 PM
This note suggests that Avant was content to issue the loan even if Mr A did not respond. 
Avant had noticed the discrepancy of £771 between what appears to have been offered as 
an income of £1,600 for which earlier Avant had noted that it needed bank statements to 
verify, and the new figure from a system check. And yet Avant seemed content to proceed. 
I do not know whether Mr A responded by end of day on 9 October 2015. 
Even if I am wrong on this interpretation of the account notes, the implications of not being 
sure on his income was significant. And I say this because Avant had calculated affordability 
on figures which were:  income £2,371, regular expenditure £800, plus £572 for other credit 
commitments plus the Avant loan of £220 = £1,592 (not including food). So according to 
Avant that would have left him with £779 each month. 
But using the same figures on a £1,600 monthly income (excluding food) does not indicate 
affordability at all. Mr A would have been left with £8 each month.
So, using Mr As bank statements I have looked to see if his income from his self-employed 
salesman work amounted to £2,371 each month. And I do not think it did.  
Additionally, when considering the verified monthly income and credit commitments showing 
on the credit file search, Mr A had to pay a significant portion of his monthly income towards 
the combined monthly consumer credit payments. And I say this having used the higher 
figure of £2,371 plus the known credit commitment spend of £572 plus the £220 a month 
Avant credit cost. So the total credit cost of £792 with a possible income of £2,371 would 
have been 33% of his overall income. As the commitments were potentially such a 
substantial portion of his income, Im of the opinion that its unlikely he wouldve been able to 
make his repayments in a sustainable manner.
Avant has, after our adjudicators view had been received, relied on the consolidation of 
loans ultimately being beneficial to Mr A. Avant said that the £572 credit commitment liability 
would not have been paid and it would have been replaced with its £220 each month, 
therefore reducing the customer's credit spending per month from 24% of their income to 
9.3%.
Its theory may be correct but I can see from bank statements Ive received from Mr A for the 
start of the lending period that the full £5,000 was paid to Mr A directly. So, Avant did not pay 
down any of Mr As debts directly which I know can be done. Avant did not appear to have 
ensured that the money was going to be used for what Mr A said it was for: loan 
consolidation. And in fact, within a few days, Mr A appears to have made several small 
payments to several high cost instalment loans, taken cash, made betting and gaming 
transactions amounting to £960 and paid for a holiday costing over £2,000Whilst I appreciate that Avant did not have control over what the money was used for after it 
was paid to Mr A, if it is seeking to use the defence that Mr A would have been in a better 
position after taking its loan than before, then Id also expect to have seen evidence that 
Avant did control what the capital funds were used for. I have seen no evidence of this 
nature and so I reject Avants argument. 
And on Avants own submissions, that reduction in credit commitment from 24% to 9.3% was 
clearly an important factor for it before approving the loan. On that part I agree. But it did not 
then go on to ensure that the outcome for Mr A was going to be the reduction to 9.3%. 
Instead Avant paid the full £5,000 to him. 
Overall, I do not see satisfactory evidence that it carried out full check of verifying Mr As 
self-employed drawings or income. Its unclear where and how the £2,371 income figure was 
arrived at. But it chose to proceed with that figure and so even if I accept that Avant was 
content it had verified that income figure satisfactorily, still there is the additional element of  
the level of indebtedness it knew Mr A was entering into by taking on its loans as well as his 
existing credit commitments of £572 a month. 
Avant was very aware of Mr As indebtedness to other lenders, and that Mr As monthly 
commitment needed to reduce. Avant has said that by offering him its own loan it was 
assisting him to do that. But I do not think it achieved that aim. It lent to him without the 
necessary checks and safeguards a responsible lender would make. And I think that on 
Mr As higher income figure of £2,371, that left him with a £792 a month credit commitment 
which I consider would have been too high for Mr A.  
I think Avant ought not to have lent to Mr A. 
Putting things right
Its fair and reasonable that Mr A should pay the capital sum of the loan back, as he has had 
the benefit of it. But I think Avant should repay all interest and charges from the amount paid 
under the loan agreement.
I understand that Avant has sold the outstanding debt and so Avant should buy it back if it is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Avant is not able to buy the debt back then 
Avant should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Avant should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the  
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr A as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on this loan. If this results in Mr A having made 
overpayments then Avant should refund those overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Avant should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr A. 
Avant should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in 
relation to the loan. Avant does not have to amend Mr As credit file until it has been 
repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant to deduct tax from this interest. Avant should give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that for all the reasons I have given, I uphold Mr As complaint and 
I direct that AvantCredit of UK, LLC does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman