DRN-3053385
The complaint
Mrs G, in her capacity as executor of the estate of Mr S, has complained that Sun Life 
Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) sold Mr S a whole of life policy 
which wasnt suitable for him.
What happened
In June 1988 a representative of a company  now known as Sun Life  sold Mr S a 
Designer policy, which was a protection and savings plan. The policy cost Mr S £40 per 
month and provided him with £10,000 of life cover for the whole of his life, as long as the 
premiums were maintained. Mr S withdrew £2,300 from the plan whilst it was in force before 
replacing this policy with a Financial Foundations plan, another form of whole of life cover, in 
May 1995. Mr S made some changes to the benefits, increasing the cover it provided, but 
this plan lapsed in June 1997 due to non-payment of premiums.
A claims management company (CMC) helped Mrs G to bring a complaint about the sale of 
the policies. The CMC said that whole of life cover wasnt appropriate for Mr S, instead, it 
thought Sun Life shouldve recommended term assurance, which was a cheaper alternative.
Sun Life agreed that a term assurance policy was most likely more appropriate for Mr Ss 
recorded needs in 1995. So, it offered a refund of premiums plus interest, based upon the 
amount Mr S shouldve paid for the term assurance instead. However, it thought the policy 
sold in 1988 was suitable as Mr S wanted life cover for family protection.
Mrs G accepted the offer made in respect of the second policy, but the CMC referred her 
concerns about the first policy to our service. The CMC added that the policy wouldve 
become unaffordable following reviews in later years and this wasnt explained to Mr S.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Mr Ss need for life cover didnt 
end at the point his children would no longer be dependent on him. He thought it was likely 
that Mrs S (Mr Ss wife) would also suffer financial detriment if Mr S were to pass away. So, 
he didnt think the policy was unsuitable for Mr Ss needs. The investigator also thought that 
the features of the plan were most likely explained to Mr S at the time.
The CMC asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. It said Mrs S would not 
be financially dependent on Mr S beyond retirement as the mortgage would have been 
cleared by then and the children would have been independent well before then. The CMC 
said term assurance shouldve been discussed as an option, and in the absence of evidence 
of this, it didnt think the sale of the plan was justified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
The CMC states that the Designer policy, which provided cover for the whole of Mr Ss life, 
wasnt suitable for his needs. It says term assurance wouldve been more suitable for Mr S 
because his children wouldnt have been dependent on him for more than another 10 years 
and his wife wouldnt have been dependent on him past retirement. So, Ive considered the 
available information from the time of the sale to determine what Mr Ss needs and 
objectives were, and whether the Designer policy met that need. However, I should say that 
the information available from 1988 is very hard to read and given the time that has passed, 
it is surprising that any paperwork remains at all. So, where the information is lacking or 
incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I think most likely happened.
I should also say that there are a number of ways in which a customers objectives may be 
achieved. And with hindsight, one way may seem more appropriate than another. However, 
my role is to determine whether the policy recommended by the adviser was a suitable 
means of meeting Mr Ss objective at the time.
Generally, term assurance  which provides life cover for a fixed of time  is suitable for 
those who have a specific liability in mind which they wish to provide cover for, such as a 
loan or mortgage, that would need to be repaid over a particular time period. Here, the 
evidence shows Mr S was seeking life cover for family protection  so there isnt an obvious 
amount or period of time over which Mr S would need this cover for.
The evidence Ive seen, which includes a client questionnaire, shows Mr S was married, with 
three children aged 19, 18 and 8. It also shows that Mr S considered all of his children were 
dependent on him. So, while the CMC states that Mr Ss children wouldnt have been 
dependent on him for more than 10 years at that point  presumably because his youngest 
child was aged 8 and would be 18 in 10 years time  that isnt supported by the evidence. It 
appears that Mr S still considered his eldest children to be dependent on him and so wanted 
to provide for them over the long-term.
The questionnaire shows that Mrs S was also working at the time, but earned less than 
Mr S. I dont know what liabilities wouldve remained in the event of Mr Ss death, but I think 
its fair to say that Mrs S wouldve been under significantly more financial pressure if hed 
died before retirement. So, by taking out life cover, Mr S was seeking to relieve this burden 
on Mrs S.
The CMC says that Mrs S wouldnt have been dependent on Mr S beyond retirement as their 
mortgage wouldve been repaid. But again, Mrs S would still have had financial 
commitments and would clearly have found them more of a burden on her own. Although it 
is recorded that Mr S had a work pension, and there would have likely been some provision 
for Mrs S here, I still think Mrs S wouldve found an additional sum in the event of Mr Ss 
death useful. And, on balance, I think Mr S wanted his family to be provided for in the event 
of his death, whenever that was.
I also think that the Designer plan provided additional benefits that Mr S couldve found 
useful. He was actually able to withdraw over £2,000 from the plan to help him with some 
bills whilst maintaining the life cover it provided. He wouldnt have been able to do this if term 
assurance had been recommended instead. Furthermore, he could make changes to the 
benefits, including adding extras throughout. So, the policy provided flexibility which also 
wouldnt have been available through a term assurance plan. On balance, I think these extra 
features most likely appealed to him.
The CMC says that the long-term affordability of the plan wasnt considered by the adviser 
and Mr S wasnt told the premium was reviewable. The policy initially cost Mr S £40 per month and I havent seen anything to suggest it wasnt 
affordable for him at the time. Im aware the policy was discontinued in 1995, but that doesnt 
appear to have been based on cost  Mr S replaced the policy with another.
Sun Life has sent us a copy of the product brochure, which Im satisfied wouldve been given 
to Mr S. Although this doesnt expressly state that premiums could go up in future, it does 
explain how cover is paid for. It says that Mr Ss contributions are used to purchase units in 
investment funds. It goes on to explain that the cost of the life cover is taken from the unit 
value of his account and that the value of units can rise and fall, depending on investment 
performance. The brochure also says that it guaranteed to maintain Mr Ss chosen level of 
cover for five years. So, I think it is implicit that after that five-year period passed, changes 
might have to be made to either the cover provided or the premium.
It also seems likely this was explained in the illustration and policy schedule given to Mr S. 
Although copies have been provided, they are illegible. But based on my experience, this 
type of information would usually be provided on these documents. So, on balance, I think 
Mr S wouldve most likely understood the premium could go up in future and that this had 
been taken into account when he accepted the recommendation to take the policy out.
In light of the above, I dont think the Designer plan was unsuitable for Mr Ss needs in 1988.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service Im required to ask Mrs G, as 
representative of the estate of Mr S, to accept or reject my decision before 
11 November 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman