DRN-4196678
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money he lost in a 
scam.
What happened
Mr D says that on 24 January 2023 he transferred £250 to a seller who advertised a vacuum 
cleaner and air purifier on an online marketplace. He was supposed to receive the items the 
following day but when he didnt and the seller stopped responding to his messages, Mr D 
realised he had been scammed. Mr D contacted Santander to report what had happened on 
26 January 2023.  
Santander considered Mr Ds claim under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) but didnt provide a refund. It said Mr D was 
presented with a warning and confirmed that the payment was genuine and also that he 
didnt complete enough checks before making the payment.
Mr D was unhappy with Santanders response and brought a complaint to this service. He 
said he thought hed used a secure method of payment and didnt know that fake bank 
accounts could be opened to receive scam funds. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that Mr D didnt complete enough checks to ensure the seller was legitimate and that the 
price, particularly when taking into account that it included delivery, was too good to be true.
Mr D was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for a final decision  so his 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for my considerations is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of his account, Mr D is liable for transactions hes carried out himself. 
But Santander are signatories to the CRM Code and also have a longstanding obligation to 
be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions which might indicate their 
customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr D was tricked into making the payment. But this isnt 
enough, in and of itself, for him to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The CRM Code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. It is for 
Santander to establish that Mr D failed to meet his requisite level of care under one of the 
listed exceptions in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that:
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
Did Mr D have a reasonable basis for belief when he made the payment?
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Santander has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Mr D made, are enough to support its position 
that it can choose to rely on an exception to reimbursement. I dont think Mr D had a 
reasonable basis for believing the seller was legitimate. Ill explain why.
Whilst I appreciate Mr D was buying the two items on a marketplace and that private sellers 
may sometimes sell items for less than their market value, I think the price of the items Mr D 
was buying was too good to be true and ought reasonably to have led Mr D to believe 
something wasnt right. 
It seems that the seller quickly agreed to a price reduction even though the items being sold 
were already very cheap. The messages Mr D has provided show the vacuum cleaner alone 
was being sold for £200. I dont have any details about the purifier but when Mr D suggested 
buying both items for £250 the seller agreed. 
The seller advised that the vacuum cleaner Mr M was buying was new. Ive looked online for 
the cost of the same item and seen prices at around twice the amount Mr D paid for this item 
and a purifier together. The purifier was second hand so its harder to gauge the price, but 
Ive seen another second-hand version of the same model for over £200. And the seller also 
agreed to next day delivery within the total cost of £250. 
So I think the price wasnt believable and note that Mr D was aware of the cost of the items 
he was buying and that he had concerns. When Mr D discussed the air purifier with the 
seller, he confirmed hed looked at the item online, so he would have known the value of it. 
And in his chat with the seller, Mr D noted that he had checked online and seen that the 
vacuum cleaner cost £400 plus. Mr D went on to ask if there was anything wrong with the 
one the seller was selling. The seller explained that there wasnt, but she wanted to get rid of 
it quickly. I find it unlikely a legitimate seller would have been prepared to make such a loss 
in the interest of a fast sale. 
Mr D has also said he didnt complete any checks in respect of the seller before making the 
payment. There were simple checks he could have undertaken to help to satisfy himself he 
was dealing with a legitimate seller, like checking the sellers profile. 
I also think the online warnings Mr D was provided with when he created the new payee 
ought reasonably to have led him to be more cautious about making the payment. Mr D was 
given advice and asked specific questions to help Santander to provide appropriate 
warnings.  
When he made the payment Mr D was provided with a warning that said,
Buying goods
If youve been asked to pay without seeing the item, this is a known scam technique.
Criminals post fake adverts and ask for upfront payment. If you havent seen the item in 
person, this could be a scam. 
Please always complete checks to make sure the item and the seller are genuine.
I consider this warning should have resonated with Mr D and led him to take more care 
before making the payment. 
Recovery
Ive been provided with evidence which shows that Santander contacted the bank that 
received Mr Ds funds very soon after the scam was reported. Santander was later advised that no funds remained. So I consider Santander acted reasonably in trying to recover Mr 
Ds funds. 
Overall, Im sorry Mr D has lost money in a cruel scam but cant fairly ask Santander to 
reimburse him. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman