DRN-3296253
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, declined his mortgage 
application.
What happened
Mr L has an interest-only mortgage with a different lender, with a remaining term of around 
ten years. He says hes a mortgage prisoner because hes paying an unfairly high rate of 
interest, his lender doesnt offer new interest rates to its customers, and hes unable to re-
mortgage elsewhere.
In October 2020, Mr Ls lender sent him a letter saying that it couldnt offer him a new 
mortgage, but recent rule changes around affordability meant he may be able to get a 
cheaper mortgage with another lender. It invited him to complete a questionnaire to confirm 
whether he might be eligible to apply under the new rules, and pointed him to sources of 
further information and advice.
Mr L went through this process soon afterwards and consulted a mortgage broker. Through 
the broker, he applied to Halifax for a re-mortgage. He wanted to borrow the same amount 
he owed to his existing lender (just over £66,000), but he wanted to switch to paying his 
mortgage on a capital and interest repayment basis, over a longer term of 25 years. He 
applied for an initial fixed interest rate of 1.8% for the first five years. He paid a non-
refundable fee of £399 to the broker.  
Halifax declined Mr Ls application, saying his credit score didnt meet its requirements. Mr L 
complained. 
Halifax gave Mr L some more information about how it credit scores applications, and said 
its decision to decline his application didnt mean it had received adverse information from 
credit reference agencies or that he was a bad payer. But it maintained that he didnt meet 
its risk profile.
Mr L was still unhappy, so he got in touch with us. Our Investigator found that Halifax had 
assessed Mr Ls mortgage application in line with its usual process under its mortgage 
prisoner scheme. He said it was entitled to decide to decline the application, and he didnt 
think it had treated Mr L unfairly  and Mr L could re-apply if he wanted, either to Halifax or 
to another lender.
Mr L asked for a review. He said hes trapped on his current mortgage paying far too much, 
and he needs a better deal  which he can easily afford. He felt he had been treated very 
unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I know Mr L is unhappy with the interest rate he has been paying his existing 
mortgage lender  but thats not a matter I can look at in this decision. This complaint and 
this decision are about Halifax, and its decision to decline Mr Ls mortgage application. 
Mr L made his mortgage application to Halifax in 2020 under new rules which the financial 
services regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), introduced in late 2019. The FCA 
brought in these rules in order to help people like Mr L, who cant take a new rate with their 
existing lender, switch to a new lender to access better deals. The rules are set out in the 
FCAs handbook (which is available online), at MCOB 11.9. When it introduced those rules, 
the FCA said they were aimed at borrowers who are up to date with payments and cannot 
switch when it might benefit them to do so. This is because they have loan and/or borrower 
characteristics that are outside current lender appetite.1
Under these rules, lenders can  but arent obliged to  apply a modified affordability 
assessment to eligible applicants. To be eligible, borrowers need to meet certain criteria.
Mr L met those criteria: he wasnt applying to borrow any more money, he was up-to-date 
with his mortgage payments and had been for the previous 12 months, and he wanted to 
switch to a new interest rate deal on his current property.
On top of that, the loan-to-value ratio on Mr Ls mortgage was well below 75%, and there 
were no loans other than the existing first charge mortgage secured on his property. Mr L 
had also applied to Halifax for a mortgage on a capital and interest repayment basis  
meaning that the mortgage would be paid off by the end of the term  instead of on an 
interest-only basis as his mortgage is currently. The new Halifax mortgage he wanted would 
have been over a longer term, but the lower interest rate  1.8% initially instead of the 5.3% 
he was paying at the time  would have meant he was paying around £50 less each month. 
The rule says a borrower can switch repayment type, if doing so is more affordable  
reducing the interest rate and extending the term would make a repayment mortgage more 
affordable than Mr Ls existing interest-only mortgage. 
Mr L was confident he could have afforded this new mortgage arrangement, having never 
been in arrears on his existing, more expensive mortgage. 
However, the FCAs new rules for borrowers like Mr L dont mean he is entitled to a better 
rate or to re-mortgage to a new lender. That is still subject to the new lenders criteria and 
assessment of an application. The rules allow a new lender to apply a less strict assessment 
than it would apply to other new applicants  but dont require an application to be accepted.
Halifax had decided that it would apply a modified affordability assessment to applications 
from borrowers unable to switch rates with their existing lender  even though the FCAs 
rules dont oblige it to do so. Ive looked carefully at its records of Mr Ls application, and Im 
satisfied that it did apply its modified affordability assessment. This meant that it applied a 
lower stress test to how much Mr L could afford to pay in future, if interest rates were to rise, 
than it would have applied to an application from someone who was not applying under the 
new rules.   
However, Halifax says that Mr L didnt meet its credit score requirements, and Ive seen that 
its records reflect that. Mr L has shown that his credit score with one of the credit reference 
agencies is good, in a range from very poor to excellent. That, though, is simply that 
particular agencys way of scoring Mr L based on the information it has; Halifax gave Mr L its 
own score based on the information it had  as it has explained to Mr L. It scores 
1 Mortgage Prisoner Review, FCA, 29 November 2021 applications in a different way to the credit reference agencies  looking not at general credit 
position, but at factors it considers particularly relevant to a mortgage application. It was 
entitled to do that, and I find nothing to indicate that there were any mistakes or unfairness in 
the way it did so in Mr Ls case.
I also find nothing to indicate that Halifax treated Mr L any differently to other people 
applying to it through this route. And it assessed Mr Ls application against its standard 
criteria as well, but that didnt change its decision to decline the application. 
The rules the FCA introduced at MCOB 11.9 were intended to make it easier for borrowers 
like Mr L to switch to better deals. But, in practice, lenders can still exercise their commercial 
discretion when considering applications made by borrowers under the new rules. That is 
what Halifax has done here, and theres no basis on which I can conclude that it was wrong 
to have done so. It didnt treat Mr L any differently to other applicants with similar 
characteristics, it followed its usual process, and it applied the relevant criteria. It follows that 
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Halifaxs decision doesnt prevent Mr L from making a fresh application  either to a different 
lender or to Halifax again. Each lender has different lending criteria and risk appetites, and 
they wont all be the same as Halifaxs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman