DRN-3135887
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled his mortgage application in 
2020.
 
What happened
Mr C applied to HSBC UK Bank Plc for a mortgage - through a broker - and paid a fee of 
£999. HSBC issued a mortgage offer in July 2020. 
The house Mr C wanted to buy fell through and he found another property. Mr C amended 
his mortgage application and sent it to HSBC in August 2020. 
In October 2020 HSBC said Mr C wasnt eligible for a mortgage as theyd changed their 
lending criteria for self-employed borrowers in light of the coronavirus pandemic. HSBC 
required proof the business they were relying on to verify the borrowers income was not 
adversely affected by the pandemic, and Mr C hadnt provided that.
Mr C was unhappy HSBC allowed him to continue with the house buying process for over 
eight weeks without letting him know theyd changed their lending criteria. He says if hed 
been told, he would have put the purchase on hold or cancelled it and avoided the 
associated costs. 
In December 2020 Mr C had an email from HSBC that said if he didnt draw down the 
mortgage by mid-January 2021 hed need to reapply. He was confused about whether 
HSBC had made him a mortgage offer or not.
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, so he brought it to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think HSBC had treated Mr C unfairly. Since Mr C didnt accept our investigators view, Ive 
looked at everything afresh to come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr C was disappointed when HSBC turned down his mortgage application 
when theyd previously made him an offer. But things had changed since hed made his 
original application, which I think HSBC were entitled to consider in coming to a decision 
about whether to lend on the new property.
HSBC are required, under relevant mortgage rules, to consider whether the mortgages they 
offer to their customers are affordable. Theyre also entitled, from a business point of view, to 
consider the risks theyre prepared to take in lending. As a responsible lender, it was 
reasonable for HSBC to review their lending criteria in light of the pandemic given the 
uncertainties it brought about property values and customers incomes. In doing so, they 
changed their criteria about the evidence they required before lending to self-employed 
customers. In light of this, and since Mr C was buying a different property and borrowing 
more, HSBC were right to reassess Mr Cs application before issuing a new offer. 
HSBC communicated with Mr Cs broker and asked for supporting financial information. 
From what Ive seen, they gave his application fair consideration, as Id expect. Ultimately 
though, HSBC werent satisfied Mr C had shown the mortgage was affordable and there 
hadnt been an impact on his business due to the pandemic. And they were entitled to make 
a business decision about whether they would lend to Mr C. 
Mr Cs unhappy HSBC didnt let either him or his broker know theyd changed their lending 
criteria and allowed him to continue the process of buying the property. HSBC say they told 
direct customers about changes. But where customers, like Mr C, had appointed brokers, 
their lending criteria were available through their intermediary website. Given the rapidly 
changing situation due to the pandemic, I think HSBC could reasonably expect the brokers 
to keep up to date and let their customers know of any changes that might affect their 
applications. I think HSBC did enough to keep Mr C updated through his broker in the 
circumstances. 
HSBC acknowledge it took around a month for Mr Cs application to be passed to their 
underwriter to review. They point out the timescales were also available for Mr Cs broker to 
access via their intermediary website. And I can see they were liaising with Mr Cs broker 
about the information they needed to assess his application during September. I dont think 
the time HSBC took was unreasonably long, especially given the impact the pandemic had 
on businesses  they had to adopt new ways of working, handle applications for payment 
deferrals and deal with increased demand for mortgages due to the stamp duty holiday 
introduced by the government. 
The £999 fee Mr C paid HSBC was to cover their costs of reserving funds for Mr C at the 
fixed interest rate he was looking to take for his mortgage. HSBC made clear the fee 
wouldnt be repaid if the mortgage didnt go through. I wouldnt have expected HSBC to 
refund it to Mr C in the circumstances, although I understand they may have done. 
I can understand Mr C was keen to get on with buying his house, given the previous property 
had fallen through. But until HSBC had considered his new application, there was no 
guarantee theyd make him an offer. So, any moving costs he incurred before an offer came 
through were at his own risk. 
HSBC told Mr C the email he received about the mortgage offer expiring related to the July 
2020 offer, which hadnt been cancelled and that theyd arranged for that to happen. HSBC 
explained to Mr C why that offer wasnt valid for the new property. Whilst I understand 
receiving the email will have been confusing, I think HSBC took appropriate steps to explain 
things to Mr C and put things right.
I acknowledge Mr Cs frustration and strength of feeling about what happened. But, bearing 
everything in mind, and whilst I understand this outcome will be disappointing for him, I dont 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman