DRN-2507867
The complaint
Mrs G complains that the Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) handled her 
withdrawal from an investment unreasonably.
What happened
On 18 March 2020, Prudential provided information to Mrs Gs financial advisor about the 
value of her investment. The investment was divided into units, whose value changed each 
day. The value given used the 18 March unit value. 
Expecting shed get the value on the statement, Mrs G decided to withdraw her funds. Her 
financial advisor sent an online withdrawal request to Prudential at around 4pm that day. 
Prudential say that because the request was received after mid-day on 18 March, the 
amount Mrs G received was calculated using the unit value from the next working day  
19 March. Theyve also said that the unit price went down at the end of the day on 18 March, 
due to a sudden drop in share prices, linked to the Coronavirus pandemic. 
This meant Mrs G received less than shed expected. She raised this with her financial 
advisor, who complained to Prudential  and then to us  on her behalf.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and found Prudential hadnt done anything wrong. 
He felt their online process had been clear that the withdrawal would be calculated using the 
following days unit value, because it was completed after mid-day. He felt that was a 
reasonable way for Prudential to run the withdrawal process. 
Mrs G disagreed. She felt the value she was told using the 18 March unit value should have 
been what she got when the withdrawal was submitted on 18 March. And her advisor argued 
more could have been done to tell Mrs G that the unit price was being lowered, so she could 
have tried to cancel the withdrawal before it was completed. 
Because the complaint hasnt been resolved, its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mrs G, but Ill explain how Ive come to my decision.
Ive looked at the statement Mrs G got on 18 March. I can see this gave a value before 
withdrawal, which I understand was calculated using the 18 March unit value. 
I do appreciate some of what Mrs G is saying. The time on the statement document appears 
to be after mid-day. So Mrs G, at that point, wasnt able to get the figure as detailed on the 
statement. I can see how it would have been clearer if the statement had highlighted that the 
figure could change, as the value for the withdrawal would be calculated using the following 
days unit value. 
With that said, I note theres no guarantee given on the statement to say Mrs G was going to 
receive the value it showed. And Prudential have shown us the final screen from their online 
process for requesting a withdrawal from an investment. This explained that requests made 
after mid-day would be valued using the unit value for the next working day. This warning 
reflects what Ive seen in the policy provisions document for the investment, specifically term 
4.2.1.b)i. 
And I find Prudential couldnt reasonably be expected to give a revised figure at the time 
Mrs G asked for the withdrawal. Their process used the unit value for the following day, 
which hadnt been set when Mrs Gs request was submitted. 
So I find Prudential did enough to make it clear  in the terms of the policy and before 
Mrs Gs withdrawal was completed  that the unit value for 19 March would be used for 
valuing the withdrawal made after mid-day on 18 March, rather than the figure given in the 
statement. 
I can also appreciate why the change that happened to the unit value between 18 and 
19 March was a surprise to Mrs G. The process being followed is again in the policy 
provisions document  part 3.3.6.7.c)  which explains its an adjustment thats only made in 
certain circumstances. If those circumstances hadnt happened often in the past, Mrs G 
might not have been aware they could happen on 18 March when she requested the 
withdrawal. 
But just because it didnt happen often, doesnt make it unreasonable for Prudential to make 
the adjustment. Particularly as it was designed to be part of the investment scheme, and 
explained in its policy document. I accept that the Coronavirus pandemic created a sharp  
and somewhat unforeseeable  change to the performance of the investment fund. And I 
accept the circumstances met the criteria set out in the policy terms for Prudential to make a 
change to the unit value. So I find it was reasonable for Prudential to adjust the unit value. 
Prudential have said that the unit value for 19 March was set at the close of play on 
18 March. This makes sense to me. For the rate to reflect all of what happened on 18 March, 
it could only be set at the end of that day. It unfortunately meant that Mrs G didnt know what 
rate she was committing to when she requested the withdrawal. But it also means Prudential 
couldnt know either. So I find its reasonable that they didnt say exactly what Mrs G was 
going to receive when she submitted her request. 
Finally, Ive thought about the point made by Mrs Gs advisor  that an earlier announcement 
of the change to the unit value would have given her more chance to cancel the request. But 
again, the online process was quite clear on this point. The final screen Ive seen stressed 
that the request to withdraw funds couldnt be reversed once submitted. 
Mrs Gs advisor has talked about an email saying Prudential could be contacted if a request 
made hadnt actually come from the customer. But that reads to me as more of a process for 
combatting fraud, rather than allowing a customer to change their mind about something 
Prudential had warned couldnt be reversed. So I dont agree this shows the withdrawal 
could have been reversed at some point after it was requested. 
My finding is that Prudential did enough here to explain that the withdrawal would be 
calculated using the unit value that they used. Mrs G, through her advisor, chose to commit 
 irreversibly  to the withdrawal before it was possible to know what that rate would be. 
While I sympathise with Mrs G for the unwelcome surprise this caused, I cant see thats been caused by Prudential doing something wrong, or something that didnt fall within the 
terms of the policy they provided. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman