DRN-2114818
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mortgage Intelligence Ltd (MI Ltd) mis-sold him a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2009.
What happened
In 2009, Mr H bought a PPI policy for a mortgage called Paymentcare. This policy was 
created for Abbey (now part of the Santander Group).  Mr H says the policy was mis-sold 
because he was not eligible to buy it because he did not have and was not about to get an 
Abbey mortgage in 2009. 
MI Ltd said it explained to Mr H on its PPI Illustration that he did not need to have an Abbey 
mortgage to be eligible for Paymentcare. So MI Ltd rejected his complaint.
Our adjudicator also thought Mr H was eligible to buy the Paymentcare policy and so did not 
uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to 
be looked at again.
Mr H added the following main points;
He did not have an Abbey mortgage in 2009, he was never about to get one and has 
never held one;
He did not buy a mortgage through MI Ltd with the PPI policy;
He did have a mortgage at the time with another lender - that property was rented out 
and the rental income covered the propertys mortgage repayment.
MI Ltd has agreed it is responsible for looking at this complaint for Mr H, so for ease, I will 
refer to MI Ltd in this decision as the seller.
I issued my provisional decision in July 2020 where I explained why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld because I did not think Mr H had satisfied the eligibility criteria for the PPI 
policy. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and invited them to 
comment or produce new evidence for me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr H 
did not add any further comments. MI Ltd added some points including:
It was not aware the policy was for rented out property as it would have affected his 
eligibility;
Mr H withheld information about his rented property at the time of the PPI sale;
The policy is still live, and Mr H is still paying the PPI premiums  MI Ltd queries that 
if Mr H thinks he is not eligible for the policy, then why has he continued to pay the 
premiums?
I have considered these points further below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the available evidence very carefully, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Before considering anything else, MI Ltd should have checked that Mr H was eligible to buy 
the Paymentcare policy. MI Ltd said it did not appear that it sold a mortgage to Mr H with the 
PPI. It concludes he was eligible to buy the Paymentcare policy.
 
Mr H said he didnt buy the PPI to support a mortgage and at the time, there was no product 
relating to the PPI. He only bought the unemployment cover for his general expenses in 
case of redundancy.
I have been referred to the terms and conditions of the policy which would have been sold in 
2009 - around the time of Mr Hs PPI sale.
The policy lists the following eligibility criteria (I have emphasised some key words):
You are eligible for this insurance if at the start date you:
Are aged 18 years or over but under 65
Work at least 16 hours per week and have done so for at least the last six months
Live in the UK
Are paying or about to pay an Abbey mortgage, and
Are up to date with your monthly repayments, if you have an existing mortgage 
agreement.
Mortgage agreement is defined as:
Your mortgage agreement with Abbey or any other lender on residential property, which 
has priority over any other charge on the property. Residential property means a property 
permanently and solely occupied by you and your immediate family as your main home.
So I think the policy eligibility criteria include a requirement that a consumer either had to 
have an Abbey mortgage or was about to buy one and also had to have an existing 
mortgage with another lender on residential property.
However, that does not apply to Mr Hs situation. Mr H said he did not have an Abbey 
mortgage, he wasnt about to buy one in 2009 and MI Ltd didnt sell him an Abbey mortgage 
 so the first part of this condition for eligibility was not met.
 
He also confirmed he already had an existing mortgage agreement with another lender, but 
this does not make him eligible for Paymentcare either. I say this because the definition of 
mortgage agreement says the mortgage with another lender has to be on a residential 
property permanently and solely occupied by Mr H. And Mr H said the property was rented 
out to pay for the mortgage. So he either lived there with tenants  which means he did not 
solely occupy it, or he lived somewhere else - which means it was not his main home. So as 
the second part of the condition about an existing mortgage agreement was not met, I dont 
think Mr H was eligible to buy the Paymentcare policy.
MI Ltd said its PPI illustration for Mr H said clearly You do not need to have a mortgage with 
Abbey to be eligible for Paymentcare. MI Ltd accepted that the full terms and conditions of 
the policy contradicted this statement  and the illustration also clearly said it should be read together with the terms and conditions of the policy. I think a consumer would probably find 
the contradiction in the illustration and the policy terms both unclear and confusing.
But MI Ltd went on to say it had contacted Santander who confirmed that Mr H did not need 
to hold an Abbey or Santander mortgage to be eligible for Paymentcare. I can assume that 
must be correct as the eligibility terms say the consumer can be about to buy an Abbey 
mortgage, which means he clearly would not need to have one at the time of the sale. So I 
dont think Santanders confirmation changes my conclusions.
 
I also think Mr H may have been unable to start a claim on this policy. I say this because the 
policy states he needs to have a mortgage account number to make a claim. I dont think he 
would have given his existing mortgage account number because he told us the mortgage 
was covered by the rental income - so it doesnt appear Mr H had a mortgage account 
number to trigger the claims process.
MI Ltd recently added it did not know the policy was for rented property as this would have 
affected Mr Hs eligibility (as I have identified above), so it concludes Mr H withheld 
information from them. However, Mr H said he took out the policy for unemployment cover in 
case he was made redundant and he said it wasnt attached to a particular product  so it 
doesnt seem that Mr H is saying he wanted the policy for his existing mortgage. In any 
event, Mr H also said he did not have an Abbey mortgage, has never had one and nor was 
he about to get one, so he still does not satisfy all the eligibility criteria to buy this policy. So I 
dont think MI Ltds submission changes my view to uphold this complaint.
MI Ltd also recently queried why the policy is still live when Mr H thinks he is not eligible for 
it. I can reasonably assume he realised he wasnt eligible for the policy when he made his 
complaint in 2019. It is his choice if he continues to pay the premiums, because if his 
complaint was rejected, then he would at least still have a valid PPI policy in place. So I do 
not think it is appropriate for me to decide against Mr H for continuing to pay his PPI 
premiums after he made his initial complaint.
So having looked at the available evidence and MI Ltds new comments very carefully, I do 
not think Mr H was eligible to buy this PPI policy. So I am upholding this complaint. Eligibility 
is a fundamental requirement for all PPI sales, so I do not need to consider any other 
grounds of the complaint.
Putting things right
Mortgage Intelligence Ltd should put Mr H in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI.
My final decision
My decision is to uphold this complaint and to make the following award against Mortgage 
intelligence Ltd.
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Mortgage 
Intelligence Ltd should:
Pay Mr H the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Mortgage Intelligence Ltd can 
take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mortgage Intelligence Ltd to take off tax from this 
interest. Mortgage Intelligence Ltd must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman