DRN-3384593
The complaint
Miss K complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo), didnt do enough to prevent her loss when 
she sent money to five accounts held at Monzo as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide an 
overview of some key events here.  
In July 2020 Miss K fell victim to a social media investment scam. As part of the scam, 
Miss K made several payments from two different bank accounts she held with two different 
providers, to five accounts held at Monzo. 
Miss K made the following payments from her bank accounts to the following five accounts 
held at Monzo: 
Account 1:
Time Date Amount
08:00am 22 July 2020 £680
11:00am 22 July 2020 £500
17:04pm 22 July 2020 £400
Account 2: 
Time Date Amount
15:15am 24 July 2020 £500
Account 3:
Time Date Amount
20:07pm 24 July 2020 £650
Account 4:
Time Date Amount
16:13pm 26 July 2020 £600
16:30pm 26 July 2020 £600
12:18pm 27 July 2020 £1,200
Account 5:
Time Date Amount
14:50pm 27 July 2020 £1,500
After Miss K became aware of the scam, she complained to her banks and also raised 
concerns about Monzo, where a number of the receiving bank accounts were held. She has 
also complained to a different banking service provider where another receiving account was 
held but this has been considered under a separate reference with our service.  
Both of Miss Ks banks are signed up to the lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). Monzo, while not a signatory, has also agreed to 
abide by the principles of the CRM Code. 
The CRM Code sets out what is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made 
which includes a consideration of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when 
making the payment. And it also sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, 
detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts 
from being opened, or used, to launder the proceeds of APP scams. Where there is a failing 
by either the Sending Firm or Receiving Firm, they may be required to reimburse the 
customer. And the customer may also be required to share some responsibility for the loss if 
it is determined that they also failed to meet their requisite level of care under the CRM 
Code. 
Miss K, was reimbursed 50% of her losses from the two banking service providers she sent 
the payments from  as they considered it could have done more in the circumstances, but 
also felt Miss K should share some responsibility. Our service looked at Miss Ks complaint 
about her banks (as the Sending Firm) under two separate references and considered the 
reimbursement of 50% to be fair in both cases.
Miss K says Monzo, as the Receiving Firm, should also share some responsibility and is 
unhappy that it couldnt recover the money for her. Miss K feels Monzo should have allowed 
the receiving accounts to be put into a negative balance in order for her to be reimbursed her 
losses.
 
Monzo didnt agree that it was liable for any remaining loss Miss K incurred. It said it had 
complied with regulatory obligations and followed its internal procedures correctly. It also 
advised that once it was notified of fraud it took the appropriate actions. 
Monzo was able to recover £1.85 from one of the accounts, as that was all that remained. 
Unfortunately, it wasnt able to recover any funds from the other accounts as all the funds 
had already been moved on or withdrawn.
Miss K referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into things and 
didnt recommend that Monzo needed to do anything further. Overall, she was satisfied 
Monzo had met the standards required of it under the CRM Code and wasnt responsible for 
Miss Ks losses as it couldnt reasonably have done more to prevent her loss. She was also 
satisfied it had responded appropriately to the notifications of fraud and explained she 
wouldnt expect it to take an account into a negative balance as Miss K had described. 
Miss K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it helpful to set out from the outset that this decision focuses solely on the actions of 
Monzo  as the Receiving Firm of the accounts where Miss K made payments to. Miss Ks 
complaints about her two different banking service providers, as the Sending Firms, have 
been reviewed under two separate complaint references with our service. And her other 
complaint about the actions of another banking service provider, as the Receiving Firm, has 
also been considered under a different complaint reference. I know this will not be the outcome Miss K was hoping for and that it will come as a 
disappointment to her but Im not upholding her complaint about Monzo. I do recognise 
Miss K has been the victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that what has happened has 
had a significant impact on her. But I dont believe Monzo has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in its answering of this complaint. I am satisfied Monzo has met its requirements under the 
CRM Code and therefore isnt liable for Miss Ks losses. I will now explain why. 
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Monzo, are required to conduct 
their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to 
comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing of 
terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through 
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the 
relationship). 
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as 
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had 
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or 
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October 
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of Practice). 
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations 
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might 
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule. 
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Monzo have agreed to 
abide by the principles of. 
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following: 
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.With all the above in mind, and in deciding whether Monzo has met the standards required 
of it under the CRM Code, Ive looked at whether it opened the receiving accounts correctly, 
whether there was anything in the way the accounts were being used that should have given 
Monzo any cause for concern and finally; once notified of the fraud did it act appropriately 
and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of the above, 
whether Monzos acts or omissions fairly resulted in Miss Ks loss. 
I think it is important to point out that while Monzo has provided our service with information 
about the receiving bank accounts  it has done so in confidence. This is to allow us to 
discharge our investigatory functions and Monzo has provided that which is necessary for 
the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service cant share any 
information about the beneficiaries, the receiving bank accounts or any investigation and 
action Monzo subsequently took. This said, I would like to assure Miss K that I have 
reviewed in detail and considered all the information provided to me before reaching my 
decision.  
The account opening process
In considering whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when 
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly 
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the 
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account. From the 
information provided, Im satisfied that Monzo carried out checks to verify the identity of the 
named account holders and did its due diligence when opening the beneficiary accounts in 
this case. There wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted Monzo 
that the accounts it was opening would later be used fraudulently. So Im satisfied Monzo 
has taken reasonable steps to prevent the accounts being opened for criminal purposes and 
it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Miss Ks loss when opening the accounts.
Account activity
A bank has a duty to follow their customers instructions and make payments as directed in 
line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the account. 
The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which 
may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Having looked at the account history of all five beneficiary accounts, I cant safely say overall 
that the account activity would reasonably have stood out to Monzo as suspicious or so out 
of character for the accounts and what might be expected for the accounts in question. I can 
see there was no notification of fraud on the accounts prior to Miss K making her payments 
into the accounts. It follows that Ive not seen anything that fairly and reasonably suggests 
Monzo had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse to execute its customers payment 
instructions.
So overall, Im satisfied Monzo has demonstrated its taken reasonable steps to detect 
accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also dont think 
Monzo ought to have had concerns that meant it ought to have intervened in this particular 
case, so I cant fairly or reasonably say it could have prevented Miss Ks loss in this way 
either. 
Did Monzo act in a timely manner once notified of the scamThe Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied Monzo took the necessary 
actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, only £1.85 of Miss Ks 
funds remained in one of the beneficiary accounts which was returned to Miss K. And no 
funds remained in the other beneficiary accounts as they had already been moved on / 
withdrawn from the accounts.
 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, Monzo 
responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards. And I 
dont think I can fairly say Monzo didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP fraud.
While Miss K was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that Monzo met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Monzo couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of her money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable to reimburse Miss K for her remaining loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman