DRN-2565268
The complaint
Mr A complains that Leeds Building Society withdrew an offer of a new interest rate on his 
holiday let mortgage.
What happened
Mr A has a holiday let mortgage with Leeds. His previous fixed rate was coming to an end, 
and Leeds wrote to him to advise him of this and let him know what new rates were 
available.
Mr A got in touch with Leeds, which advised him to use an online portal to select a new rate. 
Mr A did so, and chose a rate of 2.19%.
Leeds sent Mr A out a rate switch offer, which he signed and returned. But it realised that the 
2.19% wasnt in fact available to Mr A  that was a rate for standard buy to let mortgages, 
not holiday lets. It later sent out an offer for a 2.7%, but that rate wasnt correct either.
Mr A says that Leeds told him several times that it had accepted it had made a mistake, but 
it would honour the 2.19% rate  only for it to then refuse to do so. He said he had made a 
decision to pay a £125,000 lump sum to another mortgage rather than this one in the belief 
he had the 2.19% rate - had he known he would be paying a higher rate, he would have paid 
it to this mortgage instead.
Leeds upheld his complaint. It said it should never have offered those rates to Mr A, and he 
should have been offered a rate from its range for holiday let mortgages. It said it couldnt 
implement the rate he had selected because that wasnt available for his mortgage. But it 
would allow him to select a new rate from the appropriate range. It offered £250 
compensation, and it agreed to keep the mortgage on the previous fixed rate of 2.35% until 
we finish our review of his complaint  even though that rate has now expired. 
Mr A wasnt happy with that. He didnt think the compensation was enough. He said he had 
lost out by paying the lump sum to the other mortgage instead. And he wanted Leeds to 
honour the offer it had made. He said its mistakes had compounded the losses he had made 
when his holiday let business was shut down in the coronavirus lockdown.
Our investigator thought Leeds had made a fair offer to settle the complaint. So Mr A asked 
for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Leeds made a mistake here. The initial letter set out the correct rates that were 
available to Mr A. But when he logged into the portal, he was able to select rates meant for 
standard buy to let properties.
Its not unreasonable that the rates are different for normal buy to lets  with tenants in 
continuous occupation  and holiday lets, which tend to be more seasonal and not have 
fixed tenants in place. Holiday let mortgages are therefore more risky to the lender, and 
thats reflected in the price the borrower pays for them.
The problem here was not that there were different rates, but that Mr A was able to select a 
rate for which he with his mortgage was not eligible  and that Leeds then issued several 
offers based on the wrong rates and then withdrew them.
Mr A wants Leeds to honour the rate it offered to him, and I can understand why he wants 
that, since its a lower rate than he would otherwise have got. 
However, I dont think that would be a fair resolution to this complaint. When something goes 
wrong, the fair way to put it right is to put the complainant back in the position they would 
have been in had nothing gone wrong  not to entrench the mistake.
Had nothing gone wrong in this case, Mr A would only have been able to see the holiday let 
rates set out in the letter when he logged onto the online portal, and would have selected 
one of those. He was never eligible for the standard buy to let rates and shouldnt have been 
able to select one.
That means I think it was fair that Leeds wouldnt honour the incorrect rate. But it did make 
the mistake that allowed Mr A to select the rate, and so should also put right the losses the 
mistake caused Mr A. But Im satisfied its done that. 
Its allowed his previous fixed rate to continue even though its expired, rather than letting the 
mortgage revert to the standard variable rate, allowing him to pursue his complaint in the 
meantime. I think thats fair. 
And it means that Mr A has continued to benefit from a fixed rate that is lower than the 
holiday let rates that were available at the time of the mistake  and lower than the rates 
available now. That also means that Mr As mortgage interest rate was lower than it should 
have been throughout the lockdown period  Leeds isnt responsible for his losses caused 
by the lockdown, but this means that his losses are less than they would otherwise be. 
But given my finding that Leeds need not honour the incorrect rate, its fair that the fixed rate 
lapses and Mr A now selects a new rate for which he is eligible.
Ive considered whether there are any other losses that flow from Leeds mistake. But Im not 
persuaded that there are. Mr A has made a lump sum payment to another mortgage which 
he says he would have paid to this mortgage instead had he known the true position. Mr A 
has given us evidence of this payment in the form of a mortgage statement. That mortgage 
was a buy to let coming to the end of a fixed rate of 1.55%, and when it reverted to the 
standard variable rate of 4.49% Mr A redeemed it in full. 
The lump sum payment was made at around the same time Mr A was in discussion with 
Leeds  and before Leeds responded to his complaint confirming it would not honour the 
2.19% or 2.7% rates. However, Im not persuaded theres a direct financial loss here. 
Firstly, the other mortgage was at that time on the 4.49% SVR  and while Mr A may have 
been able to get another fixed rate to replace the one that had expired if hed kept that 
mortgage, thats not certain. And if he did get another rate, I dont know what rate he would 
have got or the fees that would have been payable. 
Secondly, the lump sum was enough to pay off the other mortgage in full, but wasnt enough 
to pay off this mortgage  so Mr A might have preferred to pay that one off in full even if Leeds had been clearer about the rate. There may be other reasons  such as managing 
income, tax and other factors  for moving from one mortgage to two which outweigh any 
interest saving, if there would be a saving. 
And I must bear in mind that Leeds error means that Mr A has now been on the previous 
2.35% fixed rate for a year longer than he should have been  that represents a substantial 
saving in itself, which would have to be offset from any potential financial loss.
Im not therefore persuaded that Leeds mistake caused Mr A a quantifiable financial loss. 
But he has been inconvenienced and upset by what happened. Leeds has offered 
compensation of £250, which I think is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I think Leeds Building Society has made 
a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint, and I dont require to take any further 
action to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman