DRN-3672098
The complaint
Mr S complains Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) refused to raise a chargeback or Section 
75 claim following a disputed tour booking transaction. He asks for a refund of the of the cost 
of the trip and compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
What happened
On 26 October 2021, Mr S booked a holiday tour package with a company Ill call M. He 
paid £198 for two people. He understood the trip to include bed, breakfast and evening 
mean and a city day tour. 
Mr S was disappointed with his holiday experience. He found he had to pay £54.46 for his 
evening meal as it wasnt included in his booking and he says the city tour was more akin to 
half a day rather than a full day as he expected. He complained to M, and says it offered a 
full refund, but he never received it.
He then raised a chargeback and Section 75 claim with Sainsburys as he had paid for the 
trip on his credit card. Sainsburys raised a chargeback on Mr Ss behalf but it was declined.
IN its final response dated 5 January 2022, Sainsburys explained it couldnt raise a Section 
75 claim as the cost of each individual trip was below the minimum limit of £100. It had gone 
on to raise to a chargeback but could find no evidence that Mr S had paid for services he 
didnt receive and so it declined a refund.
Mr S asked Sainsburys to reconsider. It looked at things again for Mr S but reached the 
same conclusion. Disappointed, Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr S. She didnt uphold his complaint. She found that 
Sainsburys couldnt consider a Section 75 claim as the amount Mr S paid for the holiday 
meet the minimum threshold. She also looked carefully at the evidence provided with regard 
to the booking itself and found nothing to suggest Mr S had paid for services he didnt 
received. She didnt agree to any compensation for trouble and upset as she found 
Sainsburys had acted fairly and reasonably in responding to his complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I appreciate 
Mr S will be disappointed, Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say what I think is more 
likely to have happened based on the information available to me.
 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Its important to say that Mr S has brought his complaint against Sainsburys and so Im going 
to consider if Sainsburys has done anything wrong in terms of its consideration of his 
complaint and the decision it reached.
Our investigator has clearly set out in her decision the rules and regulations that apply to 
both chargeback and Section 75 claims.
With regard to Section 75 claims the minimum amount that can be considered under the 
regulations is an individual transaction cost of £100. Because Mr S booked the holiday trip 
for two people at a cost of £99 each, Sainsburys correctly informed him the claim didnt 
meet the minimum requirement. Im satisfied that Sainsburys were correct in providing Mr S 
with that information.
Sainsburys then went on to raise a chargeback. A chargeback is a debit or credit card 
transaction that is reversed by the cardholders bank when they dispute a transaction. 
Theres no guarantee that the cardholder will be permanently refunded  this depends on 
whether the supplier successfully disputes the chargeback.  
The investigator set out the different criteria that must be met dependent on the scheme. In 
Mr Ss case the applicable scheme was Mastercard.
The relevant criteria stipulate for a chargeback to be successful one of the criteria below 
must apply:
Goods or services were either not as described or defective
Credit not processed
I understand from the representations Mr S has made that he expected to receive dinner, 
bed and breakfast and a full day tour. In order for me to say Sainsburys have incorrectly 
applied the criteria I would need to see evidence that this was the case and Im afraid I 
havent seen anything to lead me to that conclusion.
The invoice states bed and breakfast and although Mr S has provide a screenshot to show 
this could be included and reference to other bookings which did include an evening meal, 
there is nothing on his booking form to support the trip he booked included anything other 
than bed and breakfast. So, Im persuaded that as there is no evidence to the contrary that 
applies directly to the booking Mr S made, Sainsburys were unable to successfully process 
the chargeback.
In terms of the city tour, Im afraid the same applies. Mr S may have assumed the tour would 
be for a specific duration, but there is nothing within the documentation I have reviewed that 
gives a detail about the tour itself, other than there is a visit to the City. The reference to the 
trip is one of wither 2 days or a short break and so I cant agree that Sainsburys have 
made an error in determining there was no available evidence to suggest M hadnt provided 
the services as detailed on the booking form.Mr S has also said that M offered to refund the full amount he paid, but that wasnt 
forthcoming. Sainsburys require merchant documentation to support that a credit is due in 
order to process a chargeback. Mr S said M gave him this information over the phone, this 
wouldnt be classed as documentation.
I have no doubt that Mr S and whoever else was present during that conversation felt that 
was the outcome of the telephone call. But I wasnt present, and so cant be certain of what 
was said, M evidently did not provide a refund which resulted in Mr S approaching this 
service.
In my view Sainsburys correctly requested documentation to support confirmation that a 
credit was due, again I cant say it acted unfairly or unreasonably when Mr S was unable to 
provide the necessary documentation.
I appreciate Mr S has found this matter to extremely frustrating but in the absence of the 
necessary evidence to support a successful chargeback Im not able to uphold his complaint 
or make any award.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman