DRN-3858627
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) valued his car after it was 
declared a total loss. 
What happened
Mr D was involved in an accident, so he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
West Bay accepted the claim, declared Mr Ds car a total loss and said a fair market value 
was £4,198. They said they'd reached this amount by consulting three motor trade guides. 
As Mr D asked to keep the car, they also made him aware of the salvage value.
Mr D didnt think the suggested market value was fair and would have preferred for repairs to 
have been completed instead. He said to repair the car himself, the market value would 
need to be increased to £7,000. He also highlighted the fact his car had optional extras 
including a leather interior which made it unique. So, he said his car hadnt been valued 
fairly. 
West Bays position remained the same in their final response. However, they clarified that 
the optional extras which they valued at £145 ( allowing for depreciation) had been taken 
into consideration. As they said this amount had been added to the £4,053 average value 
suggested by the three motor trade guides totalling £4,198.
An investigator at our service then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He reviewed 
the three valuations West Bay relied upon and checked a fourth motor trade guide, before 
concluding West Bay hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr D disagreed, so Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has said he would have preferred for his car to be repaired instead of declared 
a total loss. However, under the terms of the policy West Bay were entitled to choose 
the most cost effective settlement option. They've also provided an engineers report 
which shows the necessary repairs were uneconomical compared to the value of the 
car. So, under the circumstances Im satisfied they acted fairly by declaring the car a 
total loss and giving Mr D the option of purchasing the salvage. 
The policy terms define market value as  the cost of replacing the car with another of 
the same make, specification, model, age, mileage and condition as the car 
immediately before the loss or damage happened. West Bay were therefore 
required to apply this term fairly to Mr Ds claim.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. However, like most insurers 
our service often finds the motor trade guides persuasive. This is because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and they show likely selling prices at 
the month of loss. The guides also allow for the specifications of most cars to be 
taken into consideration. This is particularly helpful, as factors such as the age and 
mileage of a car can have a big impact on its value. If a guide value is significantly 
higher or lower than the others, we may think its reasonable to ignore it. Its also 
possible to request bespoke valuations to check the impact of optional extras.
West Bay relied on three motor trade guides to reach a fair market value for Mr Ds 
car. The guides valued the car as follows £3,944, £4,040, and £4,175. The average 
value was therefore £4,053. Having checked these guides, Im satisfied West Bay 
acted fairly by relying on them and used the correct details for Mr Ds car. Im also 
satisfied none of the values should be treated as an outlier. So, it was reasonable for 
West Bay to offer Mr D the average amount. Ive also checked the additional trade 
guide the investigator used and note that it indicates a similar value to the rest of the 
guides.
West Bay increased the above valuation by £145 to reflect the fact Mr Ds car had 
optional extras. They reached this figure by pricing each optional extra individually 
and allowing for depreciation. The main way Id expect an insurer to account for 
optional extras is by considering how they impact the market value of the car, rather 
than pricing them individually. However, Im satisfied West Bays approach hasnt 
disadvantaged Mr D. I say this as when our investigator requested a bespoke 
valuation from one of the trade guides, he was advised that due to the age of the car, 
the optional extras dont impact its value. I dont find this to be unusual as the added 
value associated with optional extras can depreciate significantly over time. So, while 
I appreciate Mr D feels strongly that West Bay havent valued his car fairly, especially 
given the optional extras, I dont agree. 
Its my understanding Mr D didnt cash the settlement cheque as he wanted to wait 
for the outcome of this complaint first. If the cheque has since expired, West Bay will 
therefore need to reissue it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman