DRN-2856760
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund a cash withdrawal he says he didnt make 
from his account.
What happened
Mr C disputed making a cash withdrawal of £160 on 1 September 2020 at a Post Office 
counter. He says hed been told before that it wasnt possible to access his account in this 
way. He has reported this to the police as TSB asked him to do but is unhappy that TSB 
hasnt done more to look into this.
TSB said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The withdrawal was made using Mr Cs card 
and the correct PIN was entered. There was no clear way in which someone else could have 
done this. It had recommended Mr C contact the police as it couldnt access CCTV 
information from a third party. TSB said it would co-operate with any police investigation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the genuine 
card was used for this withdrawal. Mr C had told him that he lived alone and kept his card 
secure and hadnt written the PIN down. No one else could have accessed his card or PIN 
and a fraudster would likely have tried to take out more money. The TSB website made clear 
that his account could be accessed in this way through a Post Office. It was reasonable for 
TSB to ask Mr C to refer this matter to the police for further investigation and it had no 
authority to obtain the CCTV.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He didnt accept his card had 
been used, said he had been unable to deposit money to his account through the Post Office 
and is unhappy that TSB hasnt done more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if it wasnt authorised   
Mr C wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr C either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card?
Ive seen copies of the audit log for this payment that shows that the chip on the genuine 
card was used for this withdrawal and so the correct PIN entered. Weve not seen evidence 
of it being possible for a chip to be cloned for everyday use. I know Mr C says it wasnt 
possible to access his account in this way at the Post Office. I cant resolve what he was told 
by a third party in a complaint about TSB. But Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that it 
was possible at least to make a cash withdrawal from his account in this way and as our 
investigator says this is in line with what TSB says on its website.
The issue I need to decide on is whether Mr C consented to this payment. I wont be able to 
say exactly what happened but Im thinking about what is most likely. Mr C hasnt identified a 
way in which someone else could have obtained his card and PIN especially as he kept his 
card secure and hadnt told anyone his PIN. Had someone taken his card without him 
knowing and somehow discovered his PIN Id have expected that person to try and take out 
as much money as fast as possible. Here there was more money available in Mr Cs account 
and an overdraft facility. And Mr C said he had his card and so someone whod taken it 
would also have needed to go the risk of replacing it  also without him knowing.
I know Mr C thinks that CCTV would help  and thats what TSB told him to contact the 
police to obtain. But it isnt retained indefinitely and even if available doesnt always resolve 
whether the person taking out the money was acting with authorisation or not. But it isnt 
something Id expect TSB to obtain from a third party.
I know Mr C is going to be very disappointed when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis 
to find that he didnt consent to and so authorise this payment. That means that TSB hasnt 
made a mistake in holding him responsible for it and so I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman