DRN-3160124
The complaint
Ms W complains that following a claim made under her home emergency policy, an engineer 
sent by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) caused further damage to her boiler.
What happened
Ms W contacted IPA In February 2021 to report that her boiler was leaking. A contractor was 
sent out and located the leak. A few days later the boiler was repaired and left in good 
working condition.
However, the day after the repair took place, Ms W contacted IPA again because the boiler 
had stopped working. A contractor was sent out and found that the fault was with the Printed 
Circuit Board (PCB) which had failed and needed to be replaced. 
IPA calculated the cost of repair but said that based on that cost and the age of the boiler, it 
was beyond economical repair. Ms W was unhappy about this and said that IPAs engineers 
had caused the damage which led to the PCB failing. She made a complaint to IPA about 
this, providing evidence from her own engineer to support her claim.
IPA considered the complaint and said that its engineer hadnt opened the PCB housing, so 
couldnt have caused it to fail. Ms W disagreed and said the engineers were the only ones 
who had worked on the boiler, so she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
there wasnt any evidence to show the PCB had come undone as a result of work carried out 
by IPAs engineers.
Ms W didnt agree with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has now come to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms W says the boiler stopped working after it had been repaired, when she pressed the 
button on the front of the boiler. Shes provided evidence from her own engineer which says 
the user interface circuit board had been pushed on to the main circuit board when the 
button was pressed, causing the circuit boards to short out.
Ive considered this, alongside evidence from IPA about the jobs that were carried out by its 
engineers. The first job carried out was on 10 February, when the hydro block was replaced 
as it had been found to be leaking during a previous inspection. On 12 February the 
engineer found that the PCBs had indeed come into contact with each other and shorted out. 
The engineers comments, however, suggest that the PCBs may have come loose when the 
button was pressed too hard, pushing the PCBs together. It was also suggested that this 
may have been done in frustration by the customer, due to there having been several 
problems with the boiler. There are further notes to suggest that other repairs had been 
carried out on the boiler in the previous year, so its possible that other engineers had also 
worked on the boiler. 
Whilst IPA cannot provide evidence that the damage was caused by either the customer or a 
third party, I also dont consider that Ms Ws engineer has been able to demonstrate that 
IPAs engineers caused the problem.
But Im more persuaded by the information Ive seen which indicates that the PCB housing 
wasnt opened by IPAs engineers during the first two visits. I think this is plausible as the 
work that was carried out was replacement of the hydro block, which was not related to the 
PCB. So I think its unlikely the engineers opened the PCB housing before it failed. In light of 
this, theres not enough evidence that IPA has acted unfairly, so I wont be requiring it to 
compensate Ms W for the cost of her new boiler and any related costs.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms W, as I know this isnt the answer shes hoping for. IPA has 
offered an amount towards the new boiler which its said shes entitled to under her policy. 
So if she can provide it with an installation report and an invoice on letter headed paper then 
they should be able to assist her further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman