DRN-3199971
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy UIA (Insurance) Limited declined his escape of water claim. 
Reference to UIA includes any agents acting on its behalf during the claim. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said UIA fairly relied on its 
experts report to decline Mr Fs claim on the grounds the damage to his property happened 
gradually.  
Mr F disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said this was a single 
unforeseen leak which caused damage to his property. Mr F said he was only aware of the 
leak when he made the claim because a plumber had recently told him the leak came from a 
crack in a waste pipe under the bath.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. And for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr F so Ill explain why below. 
Ive read and considered the whole file including the various points Mr F has made to this 
service and in response to our investigator. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think 
is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
I have to decide whether UIA has fairly declined this claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Fs policy. This service isnt a claims handler, so we rely on expert evidence 
which is available to decide whether or not a claim has been reviewed fairly by UIA.  
Mr Fs policy terms and conditions have a general exclusion, which is typical in most 
insurance policies, that says no cover is provided for wear and tear or anything that happens 
gradually. And UIA is entitled to rely on the advice of its technicians when it assesses 
whether to accept a claim or not. 
Its clear there was an escape of water at Mr Fs property and this water passed through the 
ceiling of his kitchen. But I have to be satisfied the damage was caused by a one-off incident 
and not over time. 
UIAs expert attended the property and put in his report that Mr F told him that water damage 
to the kitchen artex ceiling and walls was noticed three months before the claim was made. 
UIAs expert has also noted that Mr F said he contacted a plumber at the time who couldnt 
find a leak in the bathroom above the kitchen, and that Mr F had made no further attempt to 
rectify the damage. UIAs expert concluded when he visited Mr Fs property that because of 
this information, the claim wouldnt be covered under the policy as the damage had been 
ongoing for months. 
Mr F has provided a copy of a report from an independent plumber who said the leak was 
coming from a crack in the waste pipe under the bath. And that he submitted the claim as 
soon as he was aware of the leak, and how it had happened. So, Mr F said it was an 
unforeseen event which is therefore covered by his policy. 
Ive reviewed the full file including the photos of the damage and Ive listened to a call Mr F 
made to UIA when reporting the claim. As a result, Im not satisfied UIA has unfairly declined 
this claim. Im more persuaded by the report from UIAs expert. The photos support the 
experts opinion that the damage has occurred gradually. And I note from the call Mr F made 
to UIA, in April 2021, that he said hed been having some leaks from the bathroom into the 
kitchen for the last three months and that he had delayed reporting the leak. 
Mr F has made various points in relation to why it took him so long to report the claim. Ive 
considered those carefully, but for the reasons Ive explained above, Im more persuaded by 
the evidence provided by UIA that this leak, and the subsequent damage, occurred gradually 
and so isnt covered under the policy. 
So, Im not going to ask UIA to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman