DRN-3086078
The complaint
Mr A complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) didnt allow him to buy 
shares in a particular stock. And that it failed to execute his limit orders.
What happened
Mr A has an execution only ISA account with IISL. He says that he wanted to buy some 
shares, which Ill refer to as P. He received an error message and contacted IISL. He says 
Interactive Investor had wrongly categorised P shares as a PRIIP (Packaged Retail and 
Insurance-based Investment Product). He says that by the time IISL corrected its error and 
he was able to trade, the price had moved against him. He wants IISL to apologise, to allow 
him to buy P shares at the close price on the day before he wanted to trade; or to 
compensate him for the lost opportunity to profit from the shares.
He also complains that IISL has made other errors, such as failing to execute his limit order.
IISL said the assets it makes available to trade on its platform are at its discretion. But it 
acknowledged it should have done a more thorough check on the stock when Mr A first 
contacted it. It credited his account with £31.96 to cover the commission costs of his next 
four trades.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought IISL 
had acted fairly and reasonably and agreed with it that the assets it makes available to trade 
on its platform are at its discretion.
Mr A didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
IISL didnt meet its obligations under COBS 11.2 to provide best execution. It didnt 
provide the best possible result for him because, by the time it corrected its error, the 
price of P shares had risen
IISL didnt exercise discretion in making P shares available on its platform. It made an 
error in listing it as a PRIIP which prevented him from buying it.
Its clear from his trading history that he actively invests in these types of stocks and that 
he didnt enjoy the opportunity to do so because of IISLs error. Opportunity cost should 
be applied here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the following 
reasons:
IISL isnt obliged to make all financial instruments available to trade on its platform. Its terms 
say:
We have sole discretion as to which financial instruments are available to trade on our 
platform from time to time (2.2)
And
. We may, at our reasonable discretion, refuse to accept any order or instruction from 
you.. (3.1)
When Mr A contacted IISL to ask why he couldnt buy P shares IISL told him it was due to 
regulatory reasons covering PRIIP stocks. It was only after Mr A contacted it again to query 
this that it carried out further investigation and decided it would allow P shares to be traded 
on its platform.
It seems more likely than not that IISL had mis-categorised the stock as a PRIIP stock. But it 
may still have chosen  at its discretion  not to make P shares available for trading on its 
platform for other reasons. So it doesnt follow that IISL needs to compensate Mr A for not 
having the stock available to trade.
IISL apologised to Mr A that hed needed to contact it more than once and that, if it had 
carried out a more thorough investigation when hed first contacted it, the stock may have 
been available to trade sooner.
I dont find that Mr A made a financial loss here. He says that, by the time he was able to buy 
the shares, the price had increased. But he didnt decide to buy at that higher price, so hes 
not made a financial loss which requires compensation.
Mr A says he should be compensated for the opportunity cost. In other words, he lost the 
opportunity to profit from the share price movement. I think IISLs terms are clear on this 
point. They say:
We shall not be liable to you for any Indirect losses which you suffer, except in the case of 
our wilful default or fraud. Indirect loss includes, for example, loss of profit, loss of 
opportunity, loss of business and any other indirect losses. (13.3)
And I dont find IISL acted fraudulently or with wilful default here. It follows I dont find it 
needs to compensate Mr A for the loss of opportunity to trade P shares.
Mr A says IISL did not fulfil its regulatory obligations because it didnt provide the best 
possible result for him. And hes referred to the FCAs Conduct of Business rule 11.2. This 
rule is about businesses obligations to provide best execution. But this only applies once an 
order has been accepted. So I dont find its relevant here because IISL didnt accept an 
order for Mr A.
Mr A says IISL made other mistakes, including failing to execute limit orders. Hes not 
provided any details about this and Im satisfied from what IISL has told us that his limit 
orders have been executed in line with the agreed terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman