DRN-3147472
The complaint
D, a limited company complains that PrePay Technologies Limited charged it for a feature it 
didnt agree to. 
D is represented in this complaint by Mr B, a director.
What happened
PrePay Technologies Limited provides D with an account called Tide. For ease of reference, 
I will refer to PrePay Technologies Limited as Tide in this decision.
Mr B says that after receiving a popup notification from Tide, he somehow clicked on it and 
signed up to a new feature that was offered at a free introductory rate. Mr B says he didnt 
agree to this and didnt have any agreement to read.
Mr B received a welcome email from Tide together with one saying it was sorry to see him 
go. Tide then charged D £10 plus VAT for the feature because it hadnt cancelled the free 
introductory offer in time. So, Mr B complained to Tide on behalf of D.
Tide said the feature was free of charge until 31 July 2021. And that as D didnt cancel in 
time, the feature was charged in line with its promotional literature.
The investigator recommended that Ds complaint be upheld. He asked Tide to refund the 
fee and pay D £50 compensation.
Tide hasnt responded to the investigators recommendation, so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have come to the same outcome as the investigator recommended and I will explain why.
Although Tide says that it sent D the appropriate emails, the only ones Ive seen are the two 
that D gave to us. One thanks him for signing up and the other  sent on the same day - 
says Tide is sorry to see him go and that the subscription for the feature has been cancelled. 
So, I can understand why Mr B didnt realise that Tide was going to charge D for the feature.
I also dont have much information about what Mr B wouldve seen at the point he clicked on 
the popup notification about the feature. Its not clear to me whether he knew that D had to 
cancel and if so by when. 
The uncertainty over how the feature was presented to D at the point of sale, together with 
the email confirming it had been cancelled mean that I dont think it was fair of Tide to 
charge D a fee for the feature. 
In the circumstances, I consider it reasonable to require Tide to refund the fee to D. I also 
consider Tide should compensate D for some of the time its director Mr B had to spend 
sorting this out, as it wouldve meant diverting him from running Ds business. The £50 
award recommended by the investigator is modest but as I dont have evidence to suggest 
that Mr B had to spend a significant amount of time trying to recover the fee, I think the 
amount is fair.
Putting things right
If PrePay Technologies Limited hasnt already done so, it should refund any fees that 
D paid for the feature; 
and pay D £50 compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, PrePay Technologies 
Limited should take the steps outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman