DRN-3137712
The complaint
Ms P complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc mishandled the settlement of her loan account.
What happened
Ms P took out a loan in September 2019 for a sum of £1,830. She has raised a number of 
complaints with Hitachi and she has brought a previous complaint to this service about the 
loan. This was determined by one of my colleagues and my decision concerns only the 
following matters   
The requirement that the loan be settled by phone because Hitachi hadnt arranged 
for Ms P to have online access to her account.
The call to make the payment was not made by Hitachi at the agreed time.
Having been told there was nothing further to pay Ms P was sent an email notifying 
her she owed £91.
Ms P has given this service background information about the health issues she faces and 
the impact that that Hitachis handling of the loan has had. I have taken these into account in 
my consideration of her complaint.
Hitachi issued a final response letter apologising for an email being issued showing she 
owed £91 and said that it had sent a separate communication on 20 July confirming the 
agreement has been settled. It said that it had endeavoured to assist her in getting online 
access. As for the call not being made at the specified time Hitachi said it was unaware that 
this would cause the level of distress Ms P stated. It apologised for the errors.
Ms Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. Ms P didnt agree and said that she had made a request to Hitachi not to 
communicate by phone as a reasonable request under the Equality Act 2010. The failed call 
had caused her stress as had the email saying she owed money despite having been told 
this was not the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them.
Access to the account
Ms P says she was unable to access her account online. Hitachi has said it was aware of the 
issue and sent her a step by step guide in order that she did have access. It also checked 
the system to see what issues it could identify and found none. I cannot say why Ms P was 
unable to use the online system, but I can see that Hitachi endeavoured to assist her to do 
so. I consider that to have been a fair and reasonable response. I recognise Ms Ps 
preference for online access and her reasons for doing so, but I cant say with any certainty 
that Hitachi did anything wrong in this regard.
I need to be satisfied that the inability to gain online access was due to the actions of Hitachi 
and having read all the evidence I cannot safely conclude that the fault lay with Hitachi.
Settlement by phone
I have read the lengthy contact notes provided by Hitachi and I have noted that Ms P made a 
number of phone calls about a variety of matters throughout the period of her loan. However, 
she has made a specific complaint about the requirement that she make payment by phone. 
On 1 July it emailed Ms P saying: There are several ways in which you can make a 
payment to settle your agreement, you can call [xxx] where my colleagues will be able to 
take a card payment. You can visit MyHPF, if you are registered, and make a card payment, 
or you can complete a transfer from your bank account to Hitachi using the below details: 
[xxx]: If you could kindly let me know if you are looking to settle the agreement within your 
interest free period, I will monitor this in the background and confirm with you once the 
agreement has been settled.
This offered Ms P a range of options, though I am aware that she was unable to access the 
online system. She then raised a number of other issues about the account and on 8 July 
she mailed the business saying: Thank you for taking ownership to sort out all the issues. I 
still cannot get access to my account online. Since I want to use my credit card and I cannot 
transfer money, how can I make the final £310 payment? Please advise. Many thanks.
Hitachi responded on 9 July saying: To settle your agreement you can call my colleagues 
on [xxx] who will be able to take a card payment from you. I have left a note on your 
agreement to confirm that you will be paying £310.00 to settle the outstanding balance. I 
have also arranged for a link to be sent to your email address so that you can access your 
agreement online, should you wish to pay online. Please keep an eye on your 'spam' folder 
and visit our FAQ for further logging on support. One your agreement has been settled, I will 
contact you to confirm this for your records. I look forward to speaking with you shortly.
Ms P responded on10 July saying: I have had countless reasonable adjustment requests 
under the Equality Act 2010 submitted to you about not to have to do anything over the 
phone. For 2 years I have not managed to get access to my online account as there is an 
error that comes up when I try to set the account up. Anyway, could you arrange for 
someone to call me at 11am on 14th July to take the payment from me? Thank you for your 
help.
Hitachi offed three options, one of which Ms P was unable to use and another she didnt 
wish to use leaving her with payment via phone. I cannot say that she was forced to use the 
phone to make payment as it was open to her to use a bank transfer if she so desired. While 
she had said she didnt wish to have phone contact she seems to have accepted this as a 
way of making payment by requesting a call at a specific time. On balance I dont consider I 
can safely conclude that Hitachi did anything wrong in this regard.
Call not made
Hitachi replied to Ms P on 12 July and said: Unfortunately I do not work Wednesdays, but I have spoken with my colleague [xx] today who is aware of the situation with your agreement 
and what we have discussed and will call you on Wednesday as close the 11am as possible 
to take a card payment from you. Please could you kindly confirm that [xxx] Is still the best 
number for us to call you on?
On 14 July at 15.53 Hitachi emailed Ms P to saying I tried to call your mobile but was 
unsuccessful in speaking to you. Firstly I'd like to apologise that I was unable to call you at 
11am as agreed with [xx]. Please can you let me know when it would be convenient for me 
to call you so I can take a card payment from you? Thank you for your patience.
Ms P responded saying Hi [xx], I work from 12 and unable to take calls after that's why I 
asked for a call at 11am. Would 11.45am suit you tomorrow or Friday? Thanks
She later asked that the call be made the following day. Hitachi called as requested and 
payment was made. 
I have noted that Hitachi agreed to call as close to 11 am as possible and didnt guarantee it 
would make the precise time. A call was made later in the day and an email was sent 
apologising and asking for an alternative time to suit Ms P.  I appreciate Ms P found this 
frustrating and worrying, but her email in response does not seem to reflect that level of 
distress. I agree that it was regrettable that the call was not made as requested, but I 
consider the apology offered to Ms P to be sufficient. 
Email notifying Ms P she owed £91
Hitachi has explained that the email was generated automatically. There had been a number 
of alterations to Ms Ps account and this included the extension of the intertest free period. I 
have noted that the account was being monitored, but the email was sent despite this. 
Hitachi responded the following working day and confirmed that Ms P did not owe anything. 
It was regrettable that the email was issued and I recognise that this caused Ms P distress, 
but I believe that the apology was a fair response. I can see that Ms P has found her 
experience of dealing with Hitachi troubling and it has sought to address her wide range of 
concerns, however, the account is now closed and I trust that will end her worries about it. 
Overall, I recognise that Ms P has found her experience in dealing with Hitachi less than 
satisfactory, but I also believe that it endeavoured to be as supportive as possible and while 
some errors were made the apology given by the business is a fair response.
My final decision
My final decision is that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc need take no further action with regard to 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman