DRN-2341034
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that when Mr H went to withdraw cash from his account with the 
Nationwide Building Society, £100 more was debited than he asked for. He would like 
Nationwide to return this.
As Mrs H has been responsible for all the communication, I shall also be referring to her 
throughout for ease of reading.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr H went to the Post Office to withdraw £175 from the joint Nationwide 
account he held with his wife. This was a counter transaction using his bank card. He forgot 
his PIN number so had to return home briefly. He went back to the Post Office with a slip of 
paper with a breakdown of the notes his wife had requested. Mrs H says her husband was 
given £175 in the correct breakdown but wasn't given a receipt and hadnt been told what 
the remaining balance was. Mrs H said she checked the account around a week later and 
noticed that £275 had been debited. She contacted Nationwide and the Post Office, raising a 
complaint but both said that because there was no evidence to support what she said had 
happened, the £100 couldnt be refunded and nothing more could be done.
Mr H would like the £100 difference to be returned.
In August 2020, Nationwide sent out their final response letter. They said theyd placed a 
dispute with the Post Office because this was the only way they could assist. This was 
because, they said, Mr Hs complaint lay with the Post Office and their counter staff. So, 
Nationwide said that there was nothing further they could do to help and in view of this, they 
couldnt agree that Nationwide had made any errors. They also said the Post Office 
maintained that no error had been made and there was no evidence to support Mr Hs claim 
with them either.
Mrs H was unhappy with this response and referred her complaint to this service.
In October 2020, Nationwide told us that, following the dispute claim, the Post Office had 
explained how Mr H had initially requested £175.00 twice in short succession. On both 
occasions hed submitted his PIN incorrectly. He then went on to request £275.00 - also 
twice  again getting his PIN wrong on both attempts. They said Mr H returned shortly 
afterwards, requesting £275 a third time. At this attempt, his PIN was correct. This series of 
events isnt disputed. The Post Office said that on the final occasion, Mr H was given £275. 
The Post Office had also said that no error had been made by them; theyd handed over 
£275, their accounts balanced and no financial adjustments were necessary. Nationwide 
pointed out that Mr H had been advised to complain to the Post Office but that they wouldnt 
be able to obtain any testimony from members of the Post Office staff themselves. In 
summary, they said that although Mr H may have thought hed requested £175, the evidence 
demonstrated otherwise.
In November 2020, our investigator sent out her view. She reviewed Mr Hs attempts at 
withdrawing money. And said that on the fifth attempt at making a withdrawal, a request for 
£275 had been approved. This was Mr Hs third attempt to withdraw £275. She said 
Nationwide had responded to Mr Hs complaint, saying they hadnt made any errors but had 
contacted the Post Office whod provided records of their own. She explained the Post Office 
maintained there was no evidence to support Mr Hs testimony in respect of the withdrawal 
and theyd told Nationwide thered been no till imbalance on the day in question. Based on 
this, Nationwide said it was unable to reimburse Mr H. The investigator concluded that as 
Nationwide had contacted the Post Office and raised a dispute claim - and this is what wed 
expect them to do in the circumstances - she thought Nationwide had acted fairly. So, she 
couldnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mrs H responded assuring us her husbands testimony was reliable. Our investigator replied, 
explaining that she could only consider the evidence available and reiterating her reasoning. 
And, based on the evidence, she couldnt recommend that Nationwide provided a refund.
Mrs H remained unhappy with our decision and asked for her case to be considered by an 
ombudsman. So, now the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for essentially the same reasons as our 
investigator. Let me explain why.
Firstly, Mrs H told us in her letter of complaint that she was informed by the postmaster that 
CCTV footage revealed nothing untoward. Nationwide has told us that CCTV wasnt 
included or checked as part of this claim process and there was no reference to it within 
their file. I agree. Either way, as theres no CCTV available, I must rely on the documentary 
and technical evidence, together with the testimony, provided by all parties.
Ive seen the Post Offices Partner Bank Enquiry record which states: There were 2 
attempts to withdraw 175.00 but both were unsuccessful due to an incorrect PIN. 
These were followed by 2 attempts to withdraw 275.00 but both were again 
unsuccessful due to incorrect PIN (max attempts). 25 minutes later there was a 
successful withdrawal for 275.00 and the pmr maintains that funds to the value of 
275.00 were paid out. Therefore, I am unable to facilitate an adjustment on this 
occasion. And as this is an official record, Im persuaded that its a clear and reliable 
source of information.
And this series of transactions is also supported by the transaction audit record of Mr 
and Mrs Hs Nationwide account, which Ive seen too.
Ive also looked at a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs joint statement for December 2019 
which clearly states that £275 was debited from the account on the day in question. 
And Ive also seen the electronic records provided by Nationwide which also confirm 
that £275 was withdrawn successfully.
Nationwide has also told us that the Post Office confirmed to them that its tills had 
balanced on the day of the withdrawal, so there were no financial discrepancies. Ive 
asked to see this evidence but although Nationwide havent produced anything 
beyond the items Ive already cited above, on balance, Im satisfied that this was the 
case. And if Mr H had been given £175 in error, while all the records stated £275, Id 
expect there to have been a till imbalance, which there wasnt.
I also note that Mr H made three attempts to withdraw £275, the last one after hed 
returned from checking his PIN. On balance, I think this makes it more likely than not 
that Mr H did request £275 because the request for £275 doesnt look as if it was a 
one-off mistake.So, Im satisfied from all this that £275, not £175, was correctly debited from Mr Hs account.
Ive also looked at Nationwides complaint contact notes which record that Mrs H told 
them that Mr H only came home with £175. And that counter staff had counted the money 
out in front of him. But as Mrs H wasnt present at this transaction, Im not persuaded as to 
whether this was indeed the case and am not satisfied on this basis that Mr H was given 
£175 rather than £275.
Finally, Im conscious that, as Mr H himself has been unable to provide testimony, beyond 
Mrs Hs own testimony that Mr H returned with £175 and no receipt, I havent seen 
any other evidence to support the proposition that Mr H was only given £175.
So, there seems to me to be only three possibilities. Firstly, the Post Office cashier gave 
Mr H £175 but processed the transaction as £275. But I dont think this could have been the 
case because otherwise there would have been a discrepancy in the till, which Im 
persuaded there wasnt as Ive set out above.
Secondly, Mr H was only given £175 and the remaining money was removed from the till by 
a cashier. But this is only speculative. And as a serious allegation, would be better 
investigated by the police as it would amount to a crime. And I havent seen any evidence to 
support this option and, in any case, it wouldnt be something that Nationwide are 
responsible for. 
Or thirdly, Mr H was given £275 but honestly misplaced some of the money after leaving the 
Post Office. I cant be sure how or where this might have occurred but, while I appreciate its 
difficult to say for sure, on balance, I think that this was most likely what happened and Mr H 
both requested and was given £275.
Im satisfied from Mrs Hs testimony that both she and Mr H are honest people and I dont 
doubt what theyve told us at all. But having considered all the evidence carefully, because I 
cant be 100% certain what actually happened on the day in question, I have to base my 
decision on the evidence available and on the balance of probabilities.
And as Im more persuaded by the evidence the Nationwide have provided, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr H both requested and received £275. And, I think Nationwide acted 
fairly and reasonably by contacting the Post Office and raising a dispute claim, as Id expect 
them to do in the circumstances. So, in short, I dont think they did anything wrong here. 
And, for all the reasons Ive set out above, I think Nationwides decision not to refund the 
£100 is fair and Im not going to tell them they need to do more to resolve Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman