DRN-2426563
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service provided by TSB in relation to a current account that was 
held jointly by him and his mother, Mrs B.
What happened
Mr B holds Enduring Power of Attorney (EPA) for Mrs B, which has been registered with the 
Office of the Public Guardian. He initially complained to TSB that, in late 2018, he had to go 
to branch to close Mrs Bs ISA  and that it made an error with the postal address and a 
standing order for their joint current account. It upheld the complaint and sent him a cheque 
for £300, comprising of £50 for the cost of calling the bank and going to branch plus £250 
compensation. It later sent Mr B a cheque for an additional £25. 
TSBs response mentioned that the joint current account was now closed. Mr B was 
unhappy that it had allowed this to happen without his authority. He thought it should provide 
him with the details of Mrs Bs sole account(s) and confirm that he can deal with them due to 
the EPA. He also wanted TSB to apologise and reimburse the fees he incurred obtaining 
legal advice. 
Our investigator initially said that, although he wouldnt expect TSB to reimburse the legal 
fees as Mr B could have complained directly, he thought it should reinstate the joint account
as it had been prior to Mrs Bs request. TSB appealed. It said, if this were to happen, it would 
need confirmation from Mrs B. Mr B also responded that he had needed legal advice to 
pursue the complaint, so his fees should be covered.
On further review, our investigator concluded that TSB had acted fairly. He considered 
TSBs records about Mrs Bs branch visit when she requested to close the joint account and 
transfer the funds to a sole account. Given TSBs duty of care to its customers, he thought it 
had acted within its broad legal and regulatory duties when accepting her instruction. And 
that the compensation it had already offered Mr B was fair. 
Mr B disagrees. He says that Mrs B may have presented well in branch whilst still not having 
capacity. And that the EPA had been registered, which only happens when the donor has 
lost or is losing their capacity to make their own decisions  and there is no application 
underway to overturn this. So he has legal authority over her affairs.
As no agreement was reached, Im now making the final decision on how this complaint 
should be resolved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons Ill go on to explain, Ive decided that TSB acted fairly and reasonably in how 
it handled Mr B and Mrs Bs requests about changing the account. And that the 
compensation and costs already paid fairly resolve the service issues. 
As the current account was jointly held by Mr B and Mrs B, the starting point  in line with 
TSBs personal banking terms  is that both have authority to withdraw money from and 
close the account. Mrs B gave TSB the instruction to close the account and transfer the 
money to a sole account. But the issue here is that Mr B holds EPA for Mrs B, which has 
been registered with the Office of the Public Guardian (which should be done at the point 
that someone has lost, or is losing, mental capacity). 
As Mr B has pointed out, this does mean that he holds responsibility for managing Mrs Bs 
affairs  which is a key consideration in this case. But there are other factors I must also take 
into account. My role isnt to judge Mr B or Mrs Bs actions, or to make a finding on what the 
Court of Protection or Office of the Public Guardian has decided. What Im considering is 
whether TSBs actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
As our investigator has explained, TSB has a duty of care to its customers. Wed expect it to 
act in its customers best interests and, if provided with any safeguarding concerns, to act on 
these. Mr B acknowledges that hes received a verbal suggestion that Mrs B may challenge 
the registration of the EPA. Whilst I appreciate that he hasnt been served with an application 
for this, there are still indications of a dispute about the EPA. Given what I know about the 
overall circumstances of Mrs Bs request, I consider it reasonable that TSB followed her 
instructions  and decided not to act on the EPAs mandate. 
I appreciate that Mr B felt he needed legal advice to work out how to proceed. But he could 
have complained to TSB directly and then referred the matter to our service if he disagreed 
or was unsure about TSBs response. So, I wouldnt expect TSB to cover his legal fees. 
The initial service issues raised with TSB dont appear to be at the crux of Mr Bs referral to 
us. But in the interest of completeness, Im satisfied that the £250 compensation, £50 costs 
and further £25 payment TSB has given Mr B for these is fair. This is bearing in mind that 
our service cant award non-financial compensation to third parties, nor do we have 
jurisdiction over complaint handling issues. I can consider the impact of the poor service 
TSB provided Mr B on his joint current account, such as the upset and confusion caused. 
And Im satisfied TSB has fairly redressed Mr B for this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
Rachel Loughlin 
Ombudsman