DRN-4160297
The complaint
Mr B complains about West Bay Insurance Plcs (West Bay) handling of his claim under his 
caravan insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont go into detail but will 
summarise the key points. Mr Bs motorhome was damaged following an accident while 
abroad. Mr B reported this to West Bay for them to arrange the repairs. Mr B felt things were 
taking too long so he complained. As well as the delay in handling the claim, Mr B also 
complained about West Bays decision to accept liability for the accident. 
West Bay dealt with Mr Bs complaints in two parts, firstly, they looked at the claims handling 
in relation to recovering Mr Bs motorhome to the repairer  who Ill refer to as company O. 
Secondly, they addressed Mr Bs complaints about the delays in carrying out repairs after  
Mr Bs motorhome had been delivered to company O. In relation to the first complaint, West 
Bay said they reserve the right to decide how to settle liability and they decided they couldnt 
defend the third-party claim. In relation to the claims handling, they said there were delays in 
arranging repairs due to the availability of a garage  and even though West Bay tried to find 
an alternative garage, they couldnt due to the specialist nature of the motorhome. They 
accepted there were issues with recovering Mr Bs motorhome to company O. They agreed 
the recovery of the motorhome couldve been smoother and this delayed the repairs. They 
also accepted their communication with Mr B on the claim shouldve been better and they 
apologised for the delay and overall service Mr B received. They confirmed a cheque for 
£300 compensation had been sent. 
In relation to the second complaint, West Bay said they understand Mr B is concerned about 
the delay in repairs and the further damage caused to his motorhome due to remaining idle 
while awaiting repairs. They provided a timeline of events following Mr Bs motorhome being 
recovered to company O and said they dont have any control over how long repairs take. 
They said, despite this, they accept Mr B had contacted them on numerous occasions to get 
things moving, so theyd arranged to send £250 compensation.    
  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. He agreed there had been delays caused by 
West Bay and, in relation to the first complaint, he recommended they increase their offer of 
compensation to £500. In relation to the second complaint, as there was still a dispute 
between Mr B and West Bay around damage attributable to the delay in carrying out repairs, 
our investigator recommended West Bay instruct an independent engineer to provide a 
report on the damage caused by any delays, and for West Bay to pay £250 compensation. 
West Bay agreed, but Mr B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr B will be disappointed by 
this but Ill explain why I have made this decision
 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. I think its important to add, I wont be commenting on every event during 
the claim, instead I have taken a broad approach to the overall service provided. Ill also add, 
my decision focusses only on the events up to West Bays second complaint response dated 
30 September 2022 as these are the complaints which theyve had an opportunity to 
address.  
Liability decision
I can see Mr B is concerned about West Bays decision to accept liability for the accident. 
The policy terms and conditions say, We are entitled to take full control of any claimWe 
can prosecute or defend any claim in your name. This means West Bay can decide on 
liability, but we would still expect them to take a fair and reasonable approach when reaching 
their decision. In this case, I can see the third-party insurers hold Mr B responsible, and Ive 
also seen Mr Bs account of the event. The information shows West Bay asked Mr B for his 
account, they received the third partys account, and they instructed an overseas agent to 
make enquiries and deal with the claim. I can see the agent discusses a witness statement 
which holds Mr B responsible and West Bay then explain to Mr B that liability would need to 
be conceded. So, I think West Bay have acted fairly here. Theyve taken into account the 
testimony from both parties, and it appears the most persuasive evidence here was from an 
independent witness  which I cant say is unreasonable in the circumstances.   
Recovery and claim delays (up to Mr Bs motorhome being recovered) 
The accident occurred in August 2020, and I can see Mr B reported this to another business. 
I can see Mr B has raised a separate complaint about their handling of his report and theyve 
responded separately to his complaint. In this case, Im only looking at the actions of West 
Bay so I cant make any findings against the other business and Mr B will need to pursue 
this separately. 
I can see West Bay were first made aware of the claim in April 2021, after which they start 
looking into repairs. A repair estimate is received in July from company O - a garage 
nominated by Mr B - and West Bay then ask for further images to support the estimate. The 
information provided by West Bay shows they acknowledged there had been delay in not 
chasing for the estimate and images and they offered Mr B £75 which he accepted. 
In August Mr B raises concerns that his motorhome is still at his property in an unrepaired 
and unusable state. Mr B explains his MOT has expired but he cant arrange for this to be 
done as the MOT is reliant on the repairs being completed  and the vehicle tax, which has 
also expired, cant be arranged until the MOT has been carried out. Mr B continues to raise 
concerns about his motorhome not being recovered to company O. He also explains 
company O has confirmed its fine for his motorhome to be stored at their site while awaiting 
a repair slot. Mr B continues to chase for a response and reminds West Bay his motorhome 
remains parked at his address, illegally, as it doesnt have any tax or MOT. 
Company O then confirm they dont have any repair slots until the end of September. West 
Bay then contact their own approved network of garages to confirm if theyre able to assist 
and get an earlier date booked in, but they confirm they dont have availability to take on the 
repairs. West Bay then email Mr B on 17 August and explain theyve exhausted all options 
available to try and sort out the repairs. They say they dont have approved repairers who are able to complete the work, so thats why they agreed for the repairs to be carried out by 
Mr Bs own chosen repairer, company O. They say as company O arent able to start the 
work until end of September, they cant push this forward as company O arent one of their 
approved garages. They say the only option would be for Mr B to choose another garage 
who might be able to carry out the work sooner, or for West Bay to pay a cash in lieu 
settlement for the repair work cost. They say, apart from this, they cant offer any other 
options. 
West Bays claim notes say company O are willing to store the motorhome until they can 
carry out the repairs  and that the motorhome wont start so recovery will need to be 
arranged. Mr B continues chasing the position through to the end of August and early 
September. Between 25 August to 16 September, Mr B chases on six occasions before he 
receives a response from West Bay on 20 September to say theyve instructed a recovery 
company to contact Mr B and collect his motorhome the following day to deliver it to 
company O. I can see Mr B also confirms the weight, size and dimensions of his motorhome. 
Mr B then contacts West Bay and explains the recovery agent couldnt recover his 
motorhome due to its size and weight. West Bay then respond and explain theyve raised the 
issue with the recovery agent as they shouldnt be sending incorrect trucks after Mr B had 
confirmed the size and weight of his motorhome. A further appointment is made for a 
recovery agent to collect Mr Bs motorhome but again theyre unable to recover it - this time 
due to its length. 
Mr B emails West Bay about this and also explains his motorhome has now developed faults 
due to being parked and unused for this length of time. By this point, and after a further 
unsuccessful attempt to recover Mr Bs motorhome to company O, the repair slot is missed. 
Theres an internal email from West Bay in early December which shows they note Mr Bs 
claim needs progressing. They then contact company O regarding the repairs. Mr B 
continues to chase West Bay and they then explain another repair slot has been arranged 
for 9 May 2022, and then changed to 13 June. During this time Mr B complains about further 
faults including his tyres, which he says are flat due to the motorhome staying in the same 
position. He says theres also an issue with the battery and a starting fault. Mr Bs 
motorhome is then recovered on 3 May.   
Taking this into account, I think there have been a number of errors by West Bay. There 
were a number of failed attempts to recover Mr Bs motorhome which was down to an 
unsuitable recovery truck being sent  this was despite Mr B confirming the dimensions and 
weight of his motorhome ahead of the attempted recoveries. Finding a garage to carry out 
the repairs was already proving difficult so its clear Mr B was left very upset and frustrated 
when the many failed attempts to recover his motorhome led to the original repair slot being 
missed. 
The next available repair slot was then almost nine months later  and I think this was 
avoidable had Mr Bs motorhome been recovered during the initial attempts. In addition to 
this, I can see Mr B had to continuously chase West Bay for updates as he wasnt kept 
updated and he often didnt receive a response to his emails. When considering the impact, 
Ive also taken into account Mr B was contacted by the police as his motorhome was parked 
on the road without tax as well as the loss of use and enjoyment of his motorhome. So, I 
think Mr B was caused a significant level of upset, frustration and inconvenience. 
I cant say though that the whole period between West Bay being informed of the accident 
and the motorhome being recovered is down to delays in West Bays claims handling. The 
information shows West Bay did try to book an appointment through their own network of 
repairers after finding out company O couldnt carry out the repairs until September 2021, 
but they werent successful. West Bay then also gave Mr B the option of a cash in lieu 
settlement. I think these were reasonable steps for West Bay to take. That said, and as mentioned above, there have been delays caused by West Bay as well as a lack of 
communication. So, I think compensation of £500 for this part of the complaint is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the significant upset, frustration and 
inconvenience to Mr B.   
Repair delays and additional damage to motorhome
For this part of the complaint, Ive looked at the issues Mr B has complained about following 
his motorhome being recovered to company O and up to West Bays complaint response in 
September 2022. 
The information shows, leading up to Mr Bs motorhome being recovered in May 2022, he 
raised additional problems with his motorhome  specifically issues with his battery, tyres 
and brakes. Mr B felt these issues were caused by the length of time his motorhome was sat 
idle while waiting repairs. Given the additional issues being raised, West Bay arranged for 
company O to prepare a revised estimate. The revised estimate was received by West Bay 
in June with the scope of repairs being authorised in July. There was a dispute between     
Mr B and West Bay around which further issues should be attributable to West Bays delays 
so it was agreed Mr Bs motorhome would go in for an MOT, and if this identified issues with 
the tyres or brakes, these would be covered. 
During the repairs, it was agreed that company O would return Mr Bs motorhome so it could 
be used for a holiday and would be returned to company O to enable them to complete the 
repairs. Mr B raised further issues with his motorhome having driven it and he asked West 
Bay to cover these during the repairs. West Bay then decided a detailed report would be 
required from company O to enable them to consider the further issues. It was agreed the 
report would then be assessed by West Bays engineers to determine which issues are 
attributable to the motorhome being sat idle. Based on this, West Bay felt they hadnt 
delayed in handling the repairs. 
Looking through the information, I dont think it was unreasonable for West Bay to wait for a 
revised report from company O before authorising the repairs  and I also dont think they 
acted unfairly when arranging a separate report after further issues were raised by Mr B 
about his motorhome. I think its right that West Bay consider any issues which Mr B felt 
were attributable to his motorhome being sat idle for the length of time it was  and 
arranging an inspection and report by company O was an appropriate solution to establish 
which issues should be covered. 
I can see things progressed from here and, at the point our investigator issued their view on 
this part of the complaint, Mr B had raised further issues with his motorhome, and it was 
clear there were still a number of areas of dispute between Mr B and West Bay on which 
damage should be attributable to his motorhome being sat idle. So, our investigator 
recommended West Bay instruct an independent engineer to provide a report on all issues 
which can be linked to the motorhome being sat idle. This report was provided, and it 
appears all repairs agreed between Mr B and West Bay have now been completed.   
That said, I think there are periods where West Bay couldve progressed things quicker 
given the delays which had already occurred  such as authorising the repairs sooner 
following receipt of the revised report. 
In addition to this, Ive also found the communication couldve been better and the lack of 
updates meant Mr B had to keep chasing West Bay to get things moving. I can see there 
was frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr B in having to chase for updates. To 
address these issues, I can see West Bay agreed to waive the excess which wouldve been 
payable by Mr B and also paid £250 compensation  and I think thats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. I acknowledge Mr B doesnt feel the compensation recommended by the investigator is 
sufficient to reflect the impact on him and it doesnt cover the losses he has incurred. He 
says, up to the point the second complaint response was issued, it was two years since the 
accident, during which time he lost out on the use and enjoyment of his motorhome, and he 
also wasnt able to take part in his motocross hobby. I agree the delays meant Mr B was 
without his motorhome for longer than he shouldve been. But I cant say the two years are 
fully attributable to West Bays delays. Ive already referred to the delays caused by West 
Bay and the compensation I think is reasonable to reflect the impact on Mr B. 
I can see Mr B also feels West Bay should be responsible for the insurance and tax he has 
paid for his motorhome over this period. I can see Mr B asked West Bay to maintain his 
insurance at no cost while it was parked at his home and while the repairs were being 
carried out, but they refused. I do acknowledge why Mr B feels West Bay should be 
responsible for reimbursing him the costs incurred for insuring and taxing his motorhome, 
but I dont agree these are costs which were caused directly from their errors. I agree there 
has been delay, and I also acknowledge Mr B wasnt able to use and enjoy his motorhome 
for the period of the delay attributable to West Bay. But its a legal requirement for a vehicle 
to be taxed and insured if being kept or used on public roads  so this is what led to those 
costs needing to be paid. And, while I accept the delays meant Mr B couldnt use his taxed 
and insured motorhome, Ive considered the impact of the loss of use and enjoyment of his 
motorhome in the compensation Ive directed West Bay to pay.  
    
Its clear from more recent communication, Mr B is concerned about delays in the repairs 
being completed following West Bays complaint response in September 2022, a payment 
made for personal items he says were damaged over the period of these delays and West 
Bays communication over this period. As Ive mentioned, Ive only looked at the service 
provided by West Bay from the point they were notified of the accident to September 2022. If 
Mr B does have additional complaints about the service after this point, he will need to raise 
these with West Bay in the first instance. 
I wish to reassure Mr B Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that West Bay have delayed in dealing with Mr Bs claim and the level of 
communication hasnt been reasonable. So, for the first part of the complaint  up to Mr Bs 
motorhome being recovered to company O  in addition to the £300 already paid, they 
should increase their offer by £200 and pay a total of £500. In relation to the second part of 
the complaint  from the motorhome being recovered to their complaint response in 
September 2022  as well as waiving the excess, they should pay £250 compensation. The 
compensation should be paid to Mr B, if West Bay havent paid this already. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. West Bay Insurance Plc must take the steps 
in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman