DRN-4250311
The complaint
Mrs J complains to Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) about the sale of a lifetime 
mortgage in 2005.
The mortgage was taken out in joint names but when Mrs Js husband (Mr J) died it 
transferred automatically to Mrs Js sole name. The complaint has been brought on Mrs Js 
behalf by a member of her family who I will refer to as Mr J1.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J got an index linked lifetime mortgage in 2005. They borrowed £48,400. The 
lender was Norwich Union Equity Release Limited. The mortgage was recommended by a 
representative of Aviva.
Mr J1 says the mortgage was mis-sold. He says Mr J wanted an equity release mortgage, 
not a lifetime mortgage. Mr J1 accepts that both Mr and Mrs J signed the mortgage 
documentation in 2005. However, he says Mr J was in charge of the couples financial 
affairs, so Mrs J didnt really understand or consent to the mortgage. He says Mrs J thought 
she was entering into an equity release scheme where she was giving up 25% of the value 
of their property (then around £55,000) in exchange for approximately £40,000 upfront. He 
thinks Aviva should ensure thats what she has.
Aviva said it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. He didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong 
either. Mrs J remained unhappy. Mr J1 asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think this complaint should be upheld either. Ill explain why.
Mr J1 has told us that Mr J wanted an equity release mortgage, and that Mr J put the 
mortgage documentation in a folder marked equity release. So he thinks that Mr J (if he 
hadnt passed away) would have been very surprised to realise that hed been sold a lifetime 
mortgage in 2005.
I understand Mr J1s concerns. However, I think its worth me making two points at this 
stage. Firstly, the mortgage documentation Mr and Mrs J both signed referred to them taking 
out a lifetime mortgage. Secondly. a lifetime mortgage is a type of equity release mortgage. 
So I can see why Mr J1 says Mr J put the documentation in a folder labelled equity release. 
A lifetime mortgage is a type of mortgage on which no regular repayments are made, and 
interest rolls up over the years. As a result, the amount the debt has increased by can 
sometimes come as a shock to family members as it appears to have done in this case. But 
that doesnt mean the consumers that took out the mortgage  Mr and Mrs J  didnt 
understand the consequences of the interest roll up and werent happy to agree to it at the 
time. 
Ive considered what Aviva has told us about what happened around the time of the sale and 
the relevant documentation. Aviva has provided a draft letter that sets out what was 
discussed between the Aviva adviser and Mr and Mrs J in 2005. It says that Mr and Mrs J 
wanted to pay off existing mortgages, credit cards and overdrafts, and provide for holidays 
and other outgoings. They didnt have savings, wanted to stay in their home, and didnt have 
the income to enter into a conventional mortgage. I can see that a number of different 
options were discussed at this time.
Avivas notes show that Mr and Mrs J wanted to release a greater sum than they eventually 
borrowed from their property  and accepted the potential risk of faster erosion of the equity 
within the property due to fluctuating interest rates. Mr and Mrs J discussed borrowing 
various amounts. 
So while I cant be certain exactly what was said around the time of the sale, I think the 
documentation Ive referred to above sets out a clear picture of the conversations that took 
place in 2005, and why Mr and Mrs J went for the product they did. Ive also considered the   
mortgage illustration that was provided to Mr and Mrs J before they entered into the 
mortgage. That says the interest rate on it will change but will never be less than 4.89% or 
more than 10.14%. The illustration of how the interest will roll up was based on the interest 
rate at the time of the sale - 7.93%.
In the circumstances, I think that Mr and Mrs J were both in a position to say something 
about the mortgage around the time they took it out if they didnt think it was right for them, 
or if they didnt understand it. 
Mr J1 has told us that Mrs J followed her husband in financial affairs and wouldnt have 
understood the mortgage or questioned the documentation she signed  she simply signed 
where she was directed by Mr J, so she did not provide a true consent.
I understand the point Mr J1 has made. However, I think Aviva could reasonably expect both 
Mr and Mrs J to look at the documentation they were provided with and say something if 
they didnt understand it. But Mrs J didnt complain about the sale until 2022. Both Mr and 
Mrs J had many years before that to say something if they thought that the mortgage they 
were sold was different to the one they thought theyd taken out.
Finally I think its worth saying that I can also see that Mr and Mrs J got legal advice before 
they took out the mortgage. Mr J1 has said that the relevant solicitor wasnt independent. 
That might be the case. However, Im satisfied the solicitor would have ensured that Mr and 
Mrs J both understood the terms of the mortgage before they entered into it and checked to 
make sure that they wanted to enter into it. Mr J1 has said that Mrs J didnt get independent 
financial advice before she entered into the mortgage. However, Im satisfied that the 
documentation Mr and Mrs J were provided with in 2005 gave them the information they 
needed in order to make an informed choice about whether to take the mortgage out or not. I 
dont think it would be fair to say that the mortgage was mis-sold because Mrs J chose to 
follow Mr Js lead in relation to it.
Im conscious that Mrs J will be disappointed by the outcome of this decision. However, 
having taken everything into account, Im satisfied that the advice and recommendation were 
suitable and that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman