DRN-1360643
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc rejected a payment he made for a tax payment in 
France.
What happened
Mr D says he made a payment online for a tax payment in France. He says he then received 
information from the intended recipient of the payment that HSBC had not authorised it. Mr D 
says HSBC must have cancelled the payment and as a result he is liable for late payment 
penalties. He says he received a receipt for the payment and so the fault must be HSBC's. 
Mr D says the mistake has affected his health and would like answers to his questions.
HSBC says it has carried out checks on the transaction but says it has no record of the 
money leaving Mr D's account or a request for the payment. It has suggested Mr D ask the 
intended recipient for further information so it can investigate further.
Mr D had brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr D had attempted to make the payment by transfer rather than using his account 
card. He thought it unclear how the payment would be taken from Mr D's account and that 
HSBC had carried out appropriate checks to find any request for the payment. The 
investigator also advised Mr D to ask the intended recipient for further information but didn't 
think HSBC had made a mistake.
Mr D says it is for HSBC to check with the intended recipient for further information and says 
the document he has provided us is crucial, as it confirms HSBC rejected the payment. Mr D 
has asked for an ombudsman's review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr D will be disappointed by my decision.
I don't think its clear what has taken place here or why. I can see that Mr D tried to make a 
payment for the tax but it appears to have been attempted by transfer and not by using an 
account card. And I would have expected Mr D to have noticed straight away if the payment 
was unsuccessful, as he would not have received a receipt from the intended recipient and 
could have checked if the money had left his HSBC account.
I'm satisfied that HSBC has carried out reasonable checks here to investigate what took 
place and it says it doesn't have a record of any attempt to take the payment. And I'm also 
satisfied that it's fairly suggested by HSBC, that Mr D ask the intended recipient for further 
information about what took place and why it says the payment was unsuccessful. I 
appreciate Mr D says it's up to HSBC to make such contact. But I think it unlikely that the 
intended recipient would be able to speak to HSBC due to data protection issues.I can see that Mr D was able to make the payment and that HSBC reasonably explained 
alternative methods of making the payment. I appreciate Mr D says he was liable for tax 
penalties. But he has not told me if he did have to make such a payment for a late payment. 
So I think on balance that there was no financial impact on Mr D regardless of what took 
place and the payment was made shortly after the intended date in any event.
I appreciate Mr D will have unanswered questions about what took place and why the 
original payment was unsuccessful. I'm sorry we can't find those answers or explain exactly 
what took place and why. For the reasons I have explained ,I'm satisfied HSBC has done 
what it can to find out what took place and carried out all reasonable checks and searches. I 
think Mr D will have to approach the intended recipient of the payment if he wishes to take 
matters further and ask it for further information about what took place.
I make clear to Mr D that I have looked at the document he has given us. But for the reasons 
I have explained I can't fairly ask HSBC to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint, and think the document has come from the intended recipient whom will have to 
explain how it came about and why .
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman