DRN-3717627
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW FS) dealt with him 
when he was in financial difficulty as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In January 2017, Mr K was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW FS. The agreement was for a period of four years; with 48 monthly repayments of 
£541, and an optional final repayment of £10,863 if he wanted to buy the car at the end of 
the agreement.
Mr K said he contacted BMW FS in November 2019 to let them know he had lost his job due 
to circumstances arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. He said he kept BMW FS updated 
throughout the two year period he was unemployed. He said hed been trying to keep the 
arrears to a minimum, but BMW FS had threatened him with a Return of Goods Order.
He said they caused him unnecessary mental anxiety at a time when he was in a vulnerable 
position after being severely financially impacted during the Covid-19 pandemic. He said 
they had reported missed payments on his credit report and ignored his attempts to agree 
repayment arrangements after the six month payment deferral period expired.
He was unhappy that BMW FS recorded a default on his credit file. He said he had 
specifically asked them not to do this as this would impact on his employment opportunities 
as he worked in the financial sector. 
He said it was practically impossible to contact BMW FS because their telephone line was 
constantly engaged, and call-backs were not always offered. He said they constantly 
threatened to repossess the car, used bailiffs, and told him he needed to repay the arrears in 
full within a very short period of time, completely ignoring his financial situation.
He said he wanted to clear the arrears and agree an affordable repayment plan that would 
enable this. He says BMW FS ignored this request and told him he needs to return the car.
BMW FS said Mr K applied for payment deferral in May 2020 as he was experiencing 
financial difficulty due to Covid 19. They said this was initially declined as he was already in 
arrears. They said they agreed a new payment pan with Mr K to cover the arrears. They said 
he agreed to increase his monthly payments by £120, and he would resume payments in 
August 2020.
They said payments werent made and Mr K applied again for a payment deferral in 
December 2020. They said they granted Mr K a six month payment deferral. They explained 
to him that the end date of his agreement was now 28 August 2021. They said his new 
monthly payment from November 2020 was £744. 
They said they had contacted Mr K in December 2020, January 2021, March 2021, May 
2021, August 2021, and January 2022.  In these exchanges they said they explained the 
amount of arrears, and the options available to Mr K.  They said Mr K had confirmed he was 
still not working and they had given him extra time to consider his options. 
They said they issued a default notice in January 2022 as the arrears amounted to £17,871. 
They said they required the agreement to be settled by 6 February 2022. They said Mr K 
contacted them to say he needed more time to arrange funds with the bank. They granted 
the extension, but as they had received no further contact, they decided to terminate the 
agreement on 12 February 2022. 
Unhappy with this, Mr K brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said that he was satisfied that BMW FS 
had provide support to Mr K in line with the guidance issued by the FCA, the industry 
regulator, in April 2020: Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for 
firms. He said they had provided Mr K with payment deferrals, given him information about 
the amount of arrears, and provided him with options such as voluntary termination and 
voluntary surrender. He said that he felt that BMW FS had given Mr K sufficient time to settle 
the balance. 
Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr K was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Payment deferral requests
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance, 
that came into effect on 27 April 2020, for customers who were faced with payment 
difficulties as a result of Covid-19. The purpose of the guidance was to provide exceptional 
and immediate support to customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising 
out of coronavirus.
When Mr K asked BMW FS for a payment deferral his account was already in arrears. The 
guidance was intended for customers who were facing payment difficulties due to 
circumstances arising out of coronavirus. It wasnt intended for customers like Mr K who 
were already in financial difficulty  even though his job loss arose from Covid 19. The 
guidance explained that for these customers the normal FCA guidance would apply. This 
meant that BMW FS should consider other means, such as suspending, reducing, waiving 
or cancelling any further interest or charges, deferring payment of arrears or accepting token 
payments for a reasonable period of time.I understand this is what happened. Mr K said that BMW FS agreed that the two months 
arrears would be added to a three-month payment deferral. And he said they agreed this 
would be added to the end of the agreement.
So Im satisfied that BMW FS treated him fairly at this time. They agreed a payment deferral 
and they included the arrears he had already accrued in the payment deferral. 
Arrears
BMW FS issued Mr K with a formal notice of sums in arrears in May 2020, October 2020, 
and January 2022. These are formal notices that lenders are required to send before they 
can take action if the terms of the agreement are breached. The contents of the notices are 
prescribed in the legislation. They provide important information for consumers like Mr K, 
including why they are in breach of the agreement. In his case, the notices informed Mr K 
that he was in arrears, and the amount of the arrears.
By the time of the notice sent in January 2022 the arrears had amounted to £17,871. So I 
think it was reasonable for BMW FS to conclude the agreement had been breached.
Mr K quotes the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook, in particular CONC 7.3.8 R. This 
requires firms like BMW FS to allow for alternative, affordable payment plans to repay the 
debt due in full, where the customer is in default or arrears difficulties and theyve made a 
reasonable proposal for repaying the debt.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for BMW FS to conclude that Mr K couldnt afford to pay 
the amount to settle the agreement, and that he hadnt made a reasonable proposal to repay 
the debt. I say this because he had been in arrears since at least May 2020, and BMW FS 
had given him sufficient time and opportunity to clear the arrears and/or settle the 
agreement.
Termination of the agreement
On 12 February 2022 BMW FS informed Mr K they were terminating the agreement as he 
had not complied with the terms of the agreement as set out in the default notice. I dont 
think this was unreasonable due to the amount Mr K was in arrears, and that the agreement 
shouldve ended in August 2021.
The purpose of the guidance issued by the FCA was to help customers experiencing 
temporary payment difficulties, for a temporary period only. It expected firms to provide 
exceptional and immediate support to customers like Mr K. This was to allow them time to 
make alternative arrangements. 
Mr K had been in arrears since May 2020, and had only made ad-hoc occasional payments 
towards the agreement. So I think it was reasonable for BMW FS to conclude that the 
agreement had been breached, that Mr K was likely unable to pay the arrears, and seek to 
terminate the agreement. It would be unfair and unreasonable to expect BMW FS to keep an 
agreement open ended without any reasonable affordable or foreseeable payment plan in 
place. They didnt seek to terminate the agreement until 12 months after the payment 
deferral had been granted. I think this gave Mr K sufficient time to agree a payment plan or 
use one of the alternative means suggested by BMW FS to settle the agreement 
Credit reportingMr K is unhappy that BMW FS have recorded a default on his credit file. Im satisfied this 
was an appropriate action for them to take. I say this as Mr K had received the temporary 
support as described above, and despite being given time to clear the arrears, he defaulted 
on the agreement.
The FCA guidance states that payment deferrals should not be reported as arrears on the 
customers credit file during the payment deferral period. It says that other actions should be 
reported in the usual manner.
I understand why Mr K is concerned about the impact on his credit file, and his future 
employment prospects. But creditors like BMW FS have a responsibility to accurately report 
information to the credit reference agencies. Im satisfied that they have acted appropriately 
by reporting this default.
Im satisfied that BMW FS have treated Mr K fairly and in line with the expectations set by 
the FCA in its Covid 19 guidance. I appreciate that he says he had never defaulted on his 
agreement before he lost his job due to the pandemic. But BMW FS provided him with 
payment deferrals for six months, and gave him enough time to agree an affordable payment 
plan. So I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman