DRN-2657836
The complaint
Ms B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct bank gave her incorrect 
information about stopping a cheque.
What happened
Ms B issued a cheque for £950 to a tradesman. She says she gave the cheque to the 
tradesman on 15 September 2020. Ms B says the tradesman was supposed to give her a 
call on 17 September 2020 to see if he was able to attend her property on the afternoon of 
this date to complete the work he had started.
As Ms B hadnt had a phone call from the tradesman on the morning of 17 September, she 
became concerned that something wasnt right, so she contacted First Direct to enquire 
about stopping the cheque.
Ms B says she was told by the call handler that the cheque wouldnt clear within four days. 
She says the call handler she spoke to suggested ringing the tradesman in the afternoon 
and then Ms B could ring First Direct back if she still wanted to stop the cheque. As Ms B 
was told the cheque wouldnt clear for four days she decided not to contact the tradesman 
that day. Ms B later phoned the tradesman but he didnt answer her call. She sent him 
several text messages but he only replied to one of them saying that he wasnt well.
Ms B rang First Direct again on 20 September 2020 to stop the cheque. The call handler 
informed her that the cheque had already cleared and the funds had debited her account on 
18 September 2020. 
A complaint was raised and First Direct upheld Ms Bs complaint as they said the original call 
handler gave her incorrect information. First Direct said its not possible to confirm how 
quickly a cheque a customer has written will debit their account, these can be presented and 
show as debits as early as one day after it has been paid into the receiving bank. First 
Direct apologised for the information the original call handler gave her and credited her 
account with £50. First Direct said if she was unable to recover the funds from the 
tradesman then she should try contacting Trading Standards who may be able to assist her.
Ms B was unhappy with First Directs response so she complained to First Direct again but 
First Direct referred her to their original final response letter as their response remained 
unchanged. Ms B brought her complaint to our service. She said she wanted the full value of 
the cheque refunded and mentioned the stress in having to bring her complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Bs complaint. The investigator said that while the call 
handler did give Ms B incorrect information, the call handler advised her to ring First Direct 
back on the same day but she waited until a later date to do so, when the cheque had 
already cleared. The investigator thought the £50 First Direct credited to her account was 
fair.
Ms B disagreed with the view of the investigator and asked for an Ombudsman to review her 
complaint. She said that First Direct had admitted they made a mistake and their mistake 
cost will cost her £900. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Direct have admitted that they gave Ms B incorrect information on the original phone 
call she made to them. So all thats left for me to decide is if the £50 they paid her is fair and 
reasonable based on all of the circumstances of her complaint and Im persuaded that it is. 
Ill explain my reasons why.
Ive listened in great detail to the original phone call Ms B has made and theres no doubt 
that she was given incorrect information. But this is not the only information which she is 
given on the call and therefore the situation is not as clear as it first may appear to be.
After Ms B is told the incorrect information about cheque clearing times Ms B says to the call 
handler I could give him another day  to which the call handler replies well, you could give 
him until 12 oclock. Im not saying another day. Ms B tells the call handler that I dont like 
stopping cheques, to which the call handler says if you dont hear back from him by 12 
oclock by all means give us a call because he did say hed call you in the morning so 
morning is lunchtime isnt it to which Ms B replies yeah. The call handler then says and 
then if he doesnt ring you by 12, give us a call and well take some action.
The call handler again reiterates the option to Ms B of waiting until the afternoon to give First 
Direct another call as the tradesman said he would ring her on the morning  it doesnt 
make a difference if you stop a cheque now or 12 oclock anyway as its the same day. The 
call handler then suggests to Ms B for her to call him again and give us a call back if you 
cant get through (to the tradesman) by late morning or early afternoon to which Ms B 
replies yep, thats a better thing to do, I dont like stopping cheques. Near the end of the 
call the call handler again suggests to give him another couple of hours and call him 
yourself and let us know how you get on to which Ms B replies yep, I will then.
I know that Ms B says that as she thought she had four days to stop the cheque thats why 
she didnt contact the tradesman on that day or call back First Direct. But Im not persuaded 
that the incorrect information the original call handler gave her was the sole reason the 
cheque wasnt stopped before it debited her account. I say this as although the call handler 
gave incorrect information to Ms B, he mentioned several times to her to give the tradesman 
until 12 oclock and then for her to ring back First Direct. Ms B appeared to agree to this 
suggestion on a number of occasions. While I understand why she took the actions she did, I 
cant hold First Direct responsible for her not calling them back before the cheque was 
stopped when she indicated she would follow this course of action.
First Direct credited £50 to Ms Bs account and I think this reflects the impact the incorrect 
information wouldve had on Ms B. So although I know Ms B will be disappointed, it follows 
that I wont be asking First Direct to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman