DRN-2942376
The complaint
Mrs K and Miss M complain that they were charged a foreign exchange fee by Santander 
UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Miss M lived in Northern Ireland. She visited the Republic of Ireland for an operation and 
paid the fee in euros on a debit card. On 7 January 2021 the joint account was debited with 
£11,495.65  being the payment of EUR 12,330, plus a non-sterling transaction fee of 
£329.40.
Mrs K and Miss M complained that they had no knowledge that the fee would be charged, or 
that it would be so high. Miss M had visited a local branch in December 2020 to say she was 
going to travel to ROI, but they didnt advise her there would be a charge.
Santander said that none of the staff in the branch could recall the conversation  but if Miss 
M had asked specifically about such a payment, they wouldve advised about the fees. 
Information about international payments were available on Santanders website. They 
offered, and paid, a goodwill payment of £150.
Mrs K and Miss M brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said that Santander acted 
within their terms and conditions. When Miss M visited the branch, she asked about the 
payment and the potential for it to be stopped  not about charges. As Miss M had travelled 
abroad, it was reasonable for her to expect that payments might be made in a different 
currency. The goodwill payment of £150 made by Santander was fair.
Mrs K and Miss M asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint. They said they werent 
aware of the charges. And that it wasnt fair to expect them to know about the rules and 
terms and conditions regarding exchange rates. They view Northern Ireland and ROI as one 
country  it was an hours car journey. The bank had a duty of care to recognise their naivety 
and protect their interests. And in any case  the fee was very high  maybe about £35 
would have been OK.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mrs K and Miss M are coming from  Miss M travelled the short distance 
across the border from Northern Ireland to the ROI for an operation. The cost of the 
operation was in itself expensive  EUR 12,330 and Miss M paid by debit card, but she was 
then surprised to see a currency exchange fee of £329.40 on the statement.
Looking at Santanders terms and conditions, they can charge this fee  and they also state 
it was 2.95%. They say: 
14.2 Foreign currency card payments and cash withdrawals Card payments and cash 
withdrawals in foreign currency:
a) will be converted into pounds using the Visa or Mastercard exchange rate as at the date we receive 
the Payment Instruction to debit your account (which may not be on the same day that you authorised 
the payment). You can find out the exchange rate by visiting 
www.visaeurope.com/makingpayments/exchange-rates for Visa cards or 
www.mastercard.com/global/currencyconversion/index.html for Mastercard cards or by calling us.
b) will incur a commission fee based on the amount of the transaction in the currency of origin; and
c) may incur commission fees imposed by the retailer or bank that carries out the card payment or 
cash withdrawal
8.3 Cash withdrawals and debit card payments in foreign currency (in and outside the UK)Foreign 
currency conversion fee for cash withdrawals and debit card payments 2.95% of the value
Mrs K and Miss M say they are unaware of the terms and conditions - and theyre not user 
friendly in any case. I hear what they say  but unfortunately, I dont think its a fair 
argument. The terms and conditions are readily available in branches and on its Santanders 
website. The website also has information on it about currency payments by debit cards, 
including how much a payment might be charged.
There isnt any evidence to say that Miss M asked about this when she visited the branch in 
December 2020, or about charges. And when the complaint was raised (in March 2021), it 
appears that Miss M had asked about the possibility of the payment being stopped  not 
about charges or currencies.
Mrs K and Miss M argue that they view Northern Ireland and ROC as one country  and 
therefore werent aware there were different currencies and therefore foreign exchange 
charges. Unfortunately, I dont think I can decide in their favour on that basis  in all honesty, 
the ROI had been in the euro for may years now, and therefore I think its reasonable for Mrs 
K and Miss M to know that a different currency (euros) was used there.
I can see that Santander made a goodwill payment of £150  this was almost half of the fee 
of £329.40. So, I think Santander acted very fairly here.
And so  while I accept that this will be disappointing to Mrs K and Miss M, Im not going to 
ask Santander to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman