DRN-4227877
The complaint
Mr R complains HSBC UK Bank Plc charged him for a transfer he made.
What happened
Mr R made a payment from another UK bank to HSBC. Mr R wanted to pay £2,000 to a 
savings account he holds at HSBC.
The payment credited a Euro account Mr R holds, so the £2,000 was converted into Euros. 
Mr R received €2,280.43.
Mr R called HSBC and asked to transfer the money into the savings account he originally 
intended to send the money to. Once the payment was converted back to Sterling, Mr R 
received £1,876.62  an overall loss of £123.38.
Mr R was unhappy hed lost money for something that wasnt his fault, so he complained to 
HSBC. HSBC responded to say the payment was made into the Euro account, so it applied 
the payment correctly.
HSBC said it had converted the inbound Sterling payment to Euros, then back to Sterling 
and this led to the loss for Mr R.
Unhappy with this answer, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Mr R felt HSBC had 
admitted Mr R had lost out and he had to wait a long time for his call to be answered.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator said it looked like this was Mr Rs error, asking for the payment to go to the 
wrong account.
The investigator said HSBC acknowledged Mr R had lost out, but didnt think this was 
HSBCs fault so it didnt need to do anything to resolve the complaint.
Mr R said he was unhappy with the amount charged by HSBC, and felt its handling fees 
were extortionate and he wasnt told about these fees. Mr R said an HSBC employee agreed 
hed been unfairly charged.
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not sure why the sending bank asked for the payment to be sent to Mr Rs Euro account. 
Mr R says he might have given the wrong account number, and it could also be an error on 
the part of the sending bank.
But Im satisfied it wasnt HSBCs fault. HSBC was told to credit £2,000 to Mr Rs Euro 
account and it did. I dont think HSBC applied it to the Euro account in error or should have 
realised this payment was intended for a Sterling account Mr R held.
And in crediting the payment to Mr Rs Euro account HSBC had to convert the Sterling to 
Euros. And once Mr R realised what had happened and asked for the money to go a Sterling 
account HSBC had to convert the Euro amount back to Sterling.
This resulted in an exchange rate loss, Im satisfied HSBC hasnt charged Mr R any fees 
associated with this payment. And HSBC, like most banks, wont use the midpoint exchange 
rate for currency transfers.
HSBC instead used its own rate, and this will vary slightly from the midpoint. In Mr Rs case 
it seems HSBCs exchange rate varied by around 3% from the midpoint. And this variance 
was doubled by exchanging the Sterling to Euros and then back to Sterling.
Overall Mr R lost around 6% of the £2,000 he transferred. In the circumstances, I dont think 
a 3% variance from the midpoint exchange rate is extortionate, I think its more in keeping 
with the legitimate costs of a currency transfer.
When Mr R called HSBC the staff member acknowledged the long wait and apologised to 
Mr R and, in the circumstances, I think this is a fair thing to do.
The staff member also said they realised Mr R had lost out because of this conversion to 
and from Euros. But I dont think the staff member said this was HSBCs fault. I think the 
staff member was very clear this wasnt HSBCs fault.
And I dont think it was HSBCs fault either. HSBC applied a transfer in line with the request 
it received from the sending bank. In doing this, it converted the Sterling to Euros, applying 
its rate.
And when Mr R asked for the money to go to a Sterling, HSBC again completed the 
payment in line with Mr Rs request. This meant a further conversion back to Sterling, 
resulting in the loss Mr Rs experienced.
But I dont think I can fairly hold HSBC liable for this loss, it completed both payments in line 
with the instructions it was given and applied, I think, a reasonable variance to the midpoint 
exchange rate.
In the circumstances, I dont think HSBC needs to do anything else to resolve Mr Rs 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 Chris Russ
Ombudsman