DRN-4051541
The complaint
Mr D complains about the price quoted by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) to renew his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D received a quote to renew his policy which he says was higher than the previous year, 
even though this now included a one year no-claims discount (NCD). Mr D says this 
concerned him as the renewal documents showed the average NCD for one year is 60%.  
Mr D says, despite querying this, he didnt receive any substantive information to show him 
how his premium was calculated, so he complained. LV responded and explained they use a 
range of factors to work out a price for the policy. They explained this includes personal 
factors like the type of car being insured and external factors like changes in legislation and 
the rising cost of claims. They explained their rating structure had also changed and, 
although the NCD had been applied correctly, the changes to the rating structure 
outweighed the discount received. They also explained they couldnt provide a breakdown of 
the price as this was business sensitive information.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. He thought LV hadnt treated Mr D unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. Our investigator did think the NCD information wasnt clear and 
recommended LV pay Mr D £100 compensation. Mr D agreed but LV disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Mr D and LV accept that Mr Ds policy has been priced correctly. But the crux of this 
complaint is whether LV provided Mr D with information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. 
But we can look to see whether we agree a consumer has been treated fairly  so is there 
anything which demonstrates theyve been treated differently or less favourably. If we think 
someone has been treated unfairly, we can set out what we think is right to address this 
unfairness.
Ive looked at the initial renewal quote sent to Mr D and this is just under £20 more than what 
he paid the previous year. Mr D raised a query about the price and LV applied a discount 
which reduced the price by around £40. Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of 
consumers. And their rates continually change. LV have provided me with confidential 
business sensitive information to explain how Mr Ds price was calculated. Im afraid I cant 
share this with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im 
satisfied the price he was quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no 
evidence that other LV customers in Mr Ds position will have been charged a lower 
premium. 
I acknowledge Mr D wants a more detailed breakdown showing the increase in premium. As 
mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about LVs risk model, but I can see a 
significant factor for the increase relates to changes in LVs rating structure. LV have 
described how they refreshed their rating system to more accurately reflect the expected 
costs they underwrite and how this led to Mr Ds premium increasing at renewal. LV have 
also provided a detailed breakdown showing a comparison between the previous years 
rating structure and this years structure. And this shows the specific risks which have been 
rated differently this year and how this has impacted the price. Ive also seen information 
which shows Mr Ds one years NCD was applied to the policy. 
As I've said, I cannot share all the information Mr D would likely want to see to understand 
why his premium increased as it did at renewal. I cant provide specific detail about LVs risk 
model, but LV have demonstrated they changed their approach on how they rate policies as 
well as external factors they took into account. Mr D may feel this is unfair, but LV, like all 
insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes 
to the premium. They have explained this was a change across all their policies as they 
changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the 
change and Mr D hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change their 
approach. 
I can see, when Mr D raised a query about the price, LV did apply a discount. LV have 
explained this was a discretionary discount. So, Im satisfied the discount they applied here 
wasnt to correct a mistake theyd made with the original quote but was as a result of their 
discretion. So, I think LV increased Mr Ds premium at renewal correctly in keeping with the 
changes made to their risk ratings and underwriting guidelines. And, in addition to this, I 
think they treated Mr D fairly and reasonably in applying a discretionary discount. 
While Im satisfied LV have applied Mr Ds one-year NCD to the policy, I dont think the 
information about this was made clear. The renewal quote confirms Mr D has one years 
NCD. Theres a table headed How your No Claim Discount grows over time and this shows 
the average NCD for one year is 60%. Mr D says he was therefore expecting his 2022 
renewal price to be lower than the previous year. LV say, while the table does show the 
average discount applied depending on how many years no claims a customer has, it 
doesnt set the expectation that this will guarantee a lower premium. LV say the discount 
isnt taken off at the end of the rating but is calculated in during the rating process. I do 
acknowledge why this wouldnt therefore lead to an overall discount in all cases, but I dont 
think the table and corresponding information makes that clear. 
Mr D says, he noticed the reference to a 60% NCD and believed this would lead to a lower 
premium the following year. I acknowledge the corresponding information says this is an 
average awarded to motor insurance policyholders last year and that the table sets out 
general discounts without making a specific price promise to Mr D. Mr D might not have 
been expecting 60%, nor do I think it would be reasonable to, but I dont believe it was 
unreasonable for Mr D to believe he would likely see a discount in the overall cost of his 
premium with the NCD being enough discount to make a noticeable impact on the price.  As Ive said above, I acknowledge the NCD discount is actually factored in during the rating 
process  and this wont always lead to a discount on the overall price when compared to 
the previous year. But I dont believe that has been made clear in the renewal quote sent to 
Mr D and the way in which the NCD information has been presented to Mr D. 
Looking at the impact of this error on Mr D, I think his expectations have been mismanaged 
and this has led to him becoming frustrated. This is evidenced by Mr D contacting LV to find 
out why his premium has increased from the previous year even after having the benefit of a 
one-year NCD. So, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for LV to pay Mr D 
£100 compensation.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that LV havent provided Mr D with clear information about his NCD. So, 
they should pay Mr D £100 compensation for the frustration caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited must pay Mr D £100 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman