DRN-2379152
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that she received poor service from Santander UK plc (Santander).
What happened
Mrs G visited a Santander branch on 6 January 2020 and tried to deposit cash into her 
Santander account using an ATM. Due to a fault in the machine, the deposit was not 
completed. A member of staff told her that the problem might have been that there were 
more than 50 notes being deposited in the machine.
Mrs G feels that she received poor service as the member of staff was rude and pre-judged 
the situation; the conversation took place in the public area of the branch until Mrs G asked 
for the conversation to take place in a private room; and after 45 minutes she had to leave 
the branch without a receipt that the cash deposit had been made.
The deposit of £730 was credited to Mrs Gs account on 7 January 2020. 
Mrs G complained to Santander who offered her compensation of £50 which was credited to 
her account on 7 January 2020. Santander sent Mrs G its Final Response Letter on the 
same day. Santander did not feel that the service was poor but acknowledged that the 
situation was stressful.
Mrs G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 10 January 2020. She wished to 
receive an apology from Santander and an additional £20 compensation.
Our initial view was sent to Mrs G on 27 August 2020. Following further information provided 
by Santander and Mrs G, our final view was sent to Mrs G on 12 November 2020. We did 
not uphold Mrs Gs complaint on the basis that Santander had dealt with the complaint and 
paid the compensation within one day. The investigator felt that the wait of 45 minutes was 
unavoidable and that it was not possible to give a receipt for the deposit given the technical 
problems with the ATM. He judged the compensation to be fair in all the circumstances.
Mrs G disagreed with the investigators view and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make a judgement based on the available evidence from both sides. 
This is a situation where Mrs G feels aggrieved at what she considers is poor service. 
Santander are of the view that the situation was stressful and that that led to and the 
remarks of the member of staff being exaggerated. For her part, Mrs G feels that Santander 
acted unreasonably and that she felt stressed and humiliated. 
I can understand Mrs G would have been really concerned about what had happened, 
particularly given the amount of money shed paid in. But given the problems with the ATM, I 
can also see why it would not have been possible to give Mrs G a receipt for the deposit  
not without looking into things first. A wait of 45 minutes was in my view unavoidable and its 
of note that the funds were then credited to the account the next day. It is impossible for me 
to judge with certainty whether the tone and manner of the member of staff was 
inappropriate or not. But that said, I can appreciate the situation would have been stressful 
on both sides which influenced matters. Santander looked into the complaint and paid £50 
compensation. I realise Mrs G doesnt think this goes far enough but having regard for the 
time in which Santander sought to put things right (credited her account) and recognised the 
stress caused, I think the compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, Im 
not going to require them to do anymore. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. There is no action for Santander UK plc to take.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman