DRN-2457715
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that U K Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building 
society.
Mr and Mrs H were due to fly to the USA on 6 April 2020. Part of their trip was booked as a 
package. But their accommodation was booked separately and they paid around £2500 for 
their planned stay.
On 16 March 2020, the US government imposed a travel ban as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. This ban meant that UK citizens couldnt fly to the USA. The following day, 17 
March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advised against all but essential travel. 
This meant that Mr and Mrs Hs trip had to be cancelled. Their package provider refunded 
them for the trips costs which formed part of the package. But the accommodation provider 
told Mr and Mrs H that it wasnt able to refund their accommodation costs. Instead, it offered 
Mr and Mrs H a credit note for the full costs of their booking, valid until the end of 2021. 
Mr and Mrs H said the trip had been planned to celebrate specific events. They also said 
they wouldnt be able to travel to the UK in 2021. So they made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy for their cancelled accommodation costs.
UKI turned down the claim. It said that the policy only covered financial losses a 
policyholders suffered. As the accommodation provider had offered Mr and Mrs H a credit 
note for the full value of their booking; it said they hadnt suffered a financial loss. It also said 
the policy terms specifically excluded losses which could recovered from elsewhere. It told 
Mr and Mrs H that if they were unhappy with the accommodation providers offer; theyd 
need to take it up with them.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She thought that as 
the accommodation provider had offered them a credit note, their losses were recoverable. 
So she felt it was fair for UKI to turn down their claim. She also considered that as the credit 
note had been valid for around 18 months, its terms werent unfairly restrictive.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said they didnt feel that their claim had been reviewed fairly 
and hadnt taken their personal circumstances into account. They reiterated that due to their 
circumstances, theyre unable to travel in 2021. So the credit note wasnt a suitable 
alternative. They told us theyre still concerned about the safety risks of travelling during a 
pandemic. And they now have only a few months left to try and make use of the credit note, 
which they consider is unfair and restrictive. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether 
UKI handled it fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs Hs contract with 
UKI. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for unused 
costs a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. One of these insured events is 
the FCO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders pre-booked destination.
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Hs holiday was cancelled as a result of the 
US travel ban on 16 March 2020, followed by the FCO advising against all but essential 
travel on 17 March 2020. So I can understand why Mr and Mrs H feel that UKI should pay 
their claim for their unused accommodation costs.
But the cancellation section of the policy also includes a list of things that UKI doesnt cover. 
One of these states that UKI wont pay for recoverable losses. The policy sets out what UKI 
means by recoverable losses. It defines the term as: any costs that you can recover from 
elsewhere.
UKI says that as the accommodation provider has offered Mr and Mrs H a credit note for the 
full value of their accommodation; they havent suffered a financial loss which is covered by 
the policy. And I think the policy wording makes it clear that UKI doesnt cover costs which 
can be recovered from elsewhere. 
Ive seen a copy of a letter from Mr and Mrs Hs accommodation provider. This states that it 
cant offer Mr and Mrs H a refund for their costs, as it had to pay the accommodation owners 
and wasnt able to claw back the money from them. But it did offer a credit on their booking 
for a change of dates, up until the end of 2021. So I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs H hadnt suffered a financial loss, because the credit note would cover the full 
value of their pre-booked accommodation. And the accommodation provider offered Mr and 
Mrs H around 20 months to make use of the credit note. I dont think its unreasonable for 
UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs H mightve been in a position to use the credit note before it 
expired. And in my view, the terms of the credit note arent overly restrictive.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs H might prefer to get a cash refund for their 
accommodation costs. Especially as I appreciate that future travel plans are currently 
uncertain and I appreciate that theyve told us that theyre not in a position to use the 
voucher. Im also aware that they did try to make a section 75 claim against their credit card 
provider, which wasnt successful. I do sympathise with their position and its open to them to 
get back in touch with their accommodation provider if theyre unhappy with the option its 
given them. But taking everything into account, I think it was fair for UKI to consider that Mr 
and Mrs H havent suffered a financial loss in the circumstances of this case. So I think it 
was fair for UKI to turn down their claim.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman