DRN-3136271
The complaint
Ms J complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
credit card application.   
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said:   
Ms J applied for a credit card with Aqua and told it she was a tenant and employed with an 
income of £14,000. Aqua completed a credit search. It found Ms J had a County Court 
Judgement that was under two years old and defaults totalling around £4,000 that were 
around three and a half years old. Aqua found Ms J owed around £12,000 at the time of her 
application.
Aqua approved a credit card with a limit of £450. In October 2018 Ms J spent the majority of 
the £450 credit available. No payments were made and the account fell into arrears. The 
account was closed and a default reported on Ms Js credit file.
Ms J complained that Aqua had lent irresponsibly but it didnt agree. The complaint was 
referred to this service and passed to an investigator. They upheld the complaint and asked 
Aqua to refund all interest charged, set up a payment plan for Ms J to repay the capital she 
borrowed and remove any adverse information from her credit file. Aqua didnt accept and 
pointed out the that the investigator had advised proportionate checks had been completed 
before it decided to lend. As Aqua didnt accept, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure it does so in a 
responsible way. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, this 
means businesses should ensure proportionate checks are carried out to make sure the 
customer can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. Checks should take into 
account various factors, like the amount of credit, the costs to the borrower each month, the 
cost of repaying the outstanding balance, credit history and the consumers income and 
outgoings. As the relationship between lender and borrower progresses, the business may 
need to consider whether to complete more comprehensive checks to ensure the borrower 
can afford repayments in a sustainable way.
In this case, Aqua approved a credit limit of £450. There were no subsequent credit limit 
increases. Ive looked at the information Aqua used when considering Ms Js applications. 
Ive reached a different view to the investigator. Im not persuaded that Aqua carried out 
proportionate checks when looking at Ms Js application. And had it carried out 
proportionate checks, I think Aqua wouldve declined the application. In my view, Aqua lent 
irresponsibly in this case. Ill explain why.
I can seem Ms J told Aqua she was employed with an income of £14,000. Aquas own 
lending assessment notes Ms Js income as being limited. Aqua also noted Ms J hadnt 
given details of other household income. Ms J had confirmed that she was a tenant, which 
means her income wouldve needed to support her rent, household bills and living 
expenses. Aqua also found Ms J owed around £12,000, a figure that was very close to her 
annual income, in other unsecured debts. So in addition to covering her normal living 
expenses each month, Ms Js income also needed to be sufficient to make repayments to 
her existing credit commitments.
Given the income Ms J declared and other information available to Aqua, Im not 
persuaded it carried out proportionate checks in this case. In my view, it shouldve 
considered completing more comprehensive checks before deciding to proceed. As an 
example, Aqua couldve asked for bank statements to look at Ms Js income and outgoings 
or obtained payslips. Ive given these examples to illustrate the sort of checks Aqua 
couldve considered, Im aware theres no specific list of checks Aqua had to complete.
Had Aqua looked more closely at Ms Js situation, I think it wouldve found she was 
struggling financially and unable to support further borrowing. So I think Aqua wouldve 
declined to proceed.
As I think Aqua lent irresponsibly, I intend to uphold Ms Js complaint and tell it to refund all 
interest and charges to the account. The outstanding balance should represent the funds 
Ms J spent only. Aqua will need to discuss affordable repayment options with Ms J going 
forward.
In addition, as I think Aqua lent irresponsibly I dont agree its fair for it to report adverse 
information on her credit file. Had proportionate checks been completed and the application 
declined no adverse information wouldve been recorded. So I also intend to tell Aqua to
amend Ms Js credit file to remove all adverse information recorded.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to take into account before I made my final decision. Ms J didnt respond. 
Aqua responded to say it didnt accept the provisional decision. Aqua said it had only ever 
charged a small amount of interest because Ms Js account quickly fell into arrears after it 
was approved. Aqua says Ms J is still liable to repay the funds she borrowed, if not the 
interest and charges applied. Aqua also said it didnt agree removing adverse information it 
reported about Ms J was fair because she hadnt made any payments. Aqua confirmed it 
can contact the new debt owner to discuss a payment plan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points Aqua raised in response to my provisional decision but havent 
been persuaded to change my view of how to fairly resolve Ms Js complaint. 
I was aware of Ms Js payment profile when I made my provisional decision. As I said, Aqua 
didnt complete proportionate checks and, as a result, I think it lent irresponsibly when it 
approved a £450 credit limit for Ms J. The fact Ms Js account quickly fell into arrears and 
closed reinforces my view that Aqua lent irresponsibly because it failed to carry out reasonable checks.
Aqua says it wouldnt be fair to amend Ms Js credit file because she didnt make any 
payments. But, if Aqua had completed better checks I dont think it wouldve approved Ms Js 
credit card. As I still think Aqua lent irresponsibly, I still think it should remove all adverse 
information recorded on Ms Js credit file to fairly resolve her complaint. 
Aqua says it will liaise with the new debt owner concerning Ms Js account. As Ive said in 
my provisional decision, Aqua will have to ensure arrangements are in place to discuss 
options for an affordable payment plan if Ms J accepts this decision. 
Aqua hasnt provided any points that change my view of how to fairly resolve Ms Js 
complaint. The response focuses on what happened after the credit card was approved, but 
my concerns are focused on the checks Aqua completed during the application and its 
decision to approve the credit card. I still think Aqua lent irresponsibly for the same reasons. 
As a result, Im going to proceed in line with my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
- Refund all interest and charges applied to the credit card account since inception
- Within four weeks of acceptance, contact Ms J to discuss an affordable repayment 
plan for the capital
- Amend Ms Js credit file to remove all adverse information recorded since inception
- If NewDay has sold an outstanding balance on this account to a third-party debt 
purchaser, it will need to either buy the account back from the third-party and make 
the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make 
the necessary adjustments, or pay Ms J an amount to ensure that it fully complies 
with this direction  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to settle in 
line with the above guidance.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman