DRN-4125571
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that he couldnt use an electronic payment service with his HSBC UK Bank 
Plc debit card within his digital wallet.
What happened
To summarise briefly: Mr J had previously added his HSBC debit card to his digital wallet on 
his mobile device. But when Mr J got a new mobile device and tried to register the same 
HSBC debit card to the new devices digital wallet, he encountered a problem which meant 
he couldnt register his HSBC debit card for a specific electronic payment service (EPS) on 
his new mobile device. Mr J wasnt happy about this and contacted HSBC about it. And 
when a solution to the problem couldnt be found, he raised a complaint.
HSBC spoke with Mr J and asked him to allow 48 hours to see if the link to register the card 
for the EPS appeared on their Mobile Banking app, and to contact HSBC again if it didnt. 
Following this, Mr J continued to be unable to register for the EPS and contacted HSBC 
about it some time later. HSBC responded to Mr Js further correspondence and explained 
that they were unable to assist him in registering his HSBC debit card for the EPS. Mr J 
wasnt happy about this and asked HSBC to write off his personal loan balance as a result, 
which HSBC declined to do. So, Mr J referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel it could reasonably be 
said that HSBC had done anything wrong or that theyd been the cause of the inconvenience 
Mr J had incurred, and they didnt feel that the level of inconvenience Mr J had experienced 
by not being able to register his debit card for the EPS would merit an award of 
compensation even if HSBC were deemed to be at fault. Mr J remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that HSBC have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr J has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr J for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr J notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr J and HSBC. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
In their correspondence with this service, HSBC have explained that they were unable to find 
a reason why Mr J was unable to register his HSBC debit card for the EPS, and so dont feel 
that they were at fault for the issue Mr J experienced. And given that HSBC couldnt find a 
reason why Mr J was unable to register his debit card with the EPS, I dont feel that its 
unreasonable that HSBC may have believed that the issue might lie elsewhere, such as with 
the EPS provider or with Mr Js new mobile device.   
Mr J thinks differently, and notes that the issue was only resolved when he ordered a new 
HSBC debit card which he was able to register for the EPS within his digital wallet at the first 
attempt. And Mr J feels that the ease with which he was able to register the replacement 
debit card for the EPS means it must have been an issue with his prior debit card that 
caused the issue.
Both Mr Js and HSBCs positions seem logical to me here. But given that HSBC couldnt 
detect any systemic issues with Mr Js account that would have prevented him registering 
the original debit card for the EPS and considering the ease with which Mr J was able to 
register the replacement debit card, it seems reasonable to me that it may have been a 
problem with the original debit card itself that may have been the root cause of Mr Js issues. 
That being said, given that Mr J was able to register the original debit card for the EPS on 
his previous mobile device  with the issue only occurring when Mr J obtained a new mobile 
device  I feel its also possible that the issue may have stemmed from some form of 
incompatibility between Mr Js new mobile device and the original debit card.
Given that Mr J now has a new debit card, its unlikely that the cause of the issue will ever be 
definitively determined. But whatever did happen, I dont feel that HSBC should fairly be 
instructed to pay Mr J any compensation here, and I feel that Mr Js request for HSBC to 
write off his personal loan balance because he wasnt able to register his original debit card 
for the EPS to be unreasonable. 
In arriving at this position, Ive considered that I dont feel that the root cause of what 
happened here can be reasonably established. And Ive also considered that the original 
debit card retained its functionality other than being able to be registered with the EPS on Mr 
Js new mobile device. This means that Mr J was still able to use the original debit card to 
make payments both online and by contactless in person. 
And so, even if I did feel it could be said that HSBC were at fault here, I dont feel that Mr J 
suffered anything that could reasonably be considered as being a major inconvenience. And 
I dont think that HSBC, if they were at fault, should be instructed to pay compensation for 
the relatively minor level of inconvenience Mr J can reasonably be said to have incurred.
Mr J may argue that he resolved this issue himself by ordering a new debit card. But given 
that HSBC hadnt been able to find any reason the debit card couldnt be registered for the 
EPS  and so may have reasonably felt the cause of the issue was elsewhere  I dont feel 
that there was an expectation for them to have replaced the debit card in the first instance, 
especially given that it remained functional in all other ways.I realise this wont be the outcome Mr J was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
dont feel that HSBC fairly need to take any further action here, and as such I wont be 
upholding this complaint. I trust Mr J will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman