DRN-2953629
The complaint
Miss R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt make her international payment on 
time.
What happened
On 24 March 2021, Miss R instructed HSBC to make an online payment of £26,000 to 
Ghana. HSBC wrote to Miss R on 25 March 2021 to say the payment had been stopped 
because they needed to confirm it was genuine. HSBC made a payment of £25,392.46 on 
30 March 2021.
Miss R complained. She said the delay wasnt acceptable. She called HSBC before the 
payment to tell them about it, so there wasnt any reason for it to be delayed. And HSBC 
didnt contact her about it immediately. She had told HSBC she was staying in Ghana for an 
extended period, so they shouldve contacted her by phone or email  not by writing to her 
address in London. And when she spoke to HSBC on 30 March 2021, they said the payment 
would be made that day, but it wasnt until 31 March 2021. Because of the delay, she had to 
borrow money from friend in Ghana to pay her expenses. And she spent a lot of time and 
money on phone calls to HSBC from Ghana. She says she wants compensation of £10,000.
HSBC said that the payment was stopped because they had to confirm it wasnt a fraudulent 
transaction. They had tried to contact Miss R but couldnt and so wrote to her at the address 
in their records. They accepted that the calls didnt go well  several them had dropped out. 
For this, during our investigation, HSBC offered compensation of £100 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Miss R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC had acted fairly. They had 
to make sure that payments were genuine, and in this case they couldnt contact Miss R to 
confirm that  so stopped the payment until they could speak her. He could see that the 
telephone experience of Miss R was frustrating  as the line dropped several times. For this 
he agreed that HSBCs offer of compensation was reasonable.
Mis R didnt agree and asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into what happened here and can sense and appreciate Miss Rs strength of 
feeling. She says that:
the delays in making the payment were unacceptable;
shed contacted HSBC earlier in March 2021 to make them aware of the payment, 
and therefore it shouldve been made without any checks.
Shed advised HSBC that she was staying in Ghana and therefore HSBC needed to 
contact her by email or phone, not by writing to her London address
When she spoke to HSBC on 30 March 2021 to explain about the payment  she 
was told it would be released that day but wasnt - until 31 March 2021. So even 
then, there was a further delay.
Because of what happened, she had to borrow money from friends in Ghana, and 
she also spent a lot of time on the phone to HSBC  which cost a lot of money.
Let me say that its an unfortunate fact that fraud is increasing and all banks, including 
HSBC, have checks in place to ensure that payments are genuine  and not fraudulent. 
They have sophisticated systems in place to flag certain payments which need to be 
checked before they are released. These are in place to protect customers from potential 
losses. And thats what happened here  Miss Rs payment was firstly held for checks. 
And then  when HSBC couldnt contact her, they stopped the payment  until Miss R 
called HSBC on 30 March 2021. It was then released.
So - HSBC were entitled to check the payment for fraud. Miss R says she contacted 
HSBC by phone - earlier in March 2021 to say what she was going to do. We asked 
HSBC for their phone records for the whole of March 2021  and the first calls that they 
could locate start on 29 March 2021. I can see that HSBC responded to a secure 
emessage on 23 March 2021  this gives information about how to make an international 
payment. But I cant see what Miss Rs message was. So  it maybe that this was the 
pre-advice that Miss R is referring to  but I cant say. Nor can I confirm that Miss R 
spoke to HSBC earlier in March 2021 about the forthcoming payment. But  I must also 
say that even if Miss R did contact HSBC in the way she says  it wouldnt have stopped 
HSBC making their fraud checks  and therefore the payment would still have likely been 
blocked. HSBC told us that if the payment meets HSBCs criteria for a fraud check, then 
thats what would happen, regardless of any pre-advice.
We also asked HSBC whether they could trace any record of Miss R advising them 
about her stay in Ghana  and to contact her in ways other than by writing to her London 
address. Again, HSBC have no record of that. HSBC say they tried to contact Miss R by 
phone, but without success  and so they wrote to her. I can see the letter dated 25 
March 2021 says, Please contact us urgently on xxxxWeve made the decision to stop 
a payment leaving your account because weve been unable to confirm its genuine. We 
asked HSBC if they couldve used email to advise Miss R what had happened  but they 
told us they didnt use email for that purpose  because its not considered a secure 
method of exchanging information  I can appreciate that. I listened to the calls between 
Miss R and HSBC on 29 March 2021  and on the first call, the call handler says he only 
has a UK number for Miss R  and she then gave him her mobile number. So  it looks 
like that until then, HSBC only had her UK number to call. I can see that HSBCs records 
now show her updated mobile number.
Miss R says there were further delays after she spoke to HSBC on 30 March 2021  as 
the payment didnt go until the next day  on 31 March 2021. Ive looked at Miss Rs 
statement and this shows the payment was made on 30 March 2021. So  it was sent 
when HSBC said it would be. Ive also seen in HSBCs records that Miss R called HSBC 
on 30 March 2021 to authorise the payment and that it was sent that day.
Ive listened to the two calls between Miss R and HSBC on 29 March 2021. It was 
apparent that this was when Miss R learnt for the first time that her payment hadnt been 
made. But there were also a lot of communication difficulties - because Miss R calling 
from Ghana. The second call dropped off. HSBC couldnt get Miss R transferred to the 
fraud department to discuss the payment. Ive also listened to the three calls between 
Miss R and HSBC on 30 March 2021. There were long hold times and again, 
communication problems. Two of the calls dropped off. And so  it wasnt possible to 
resolve Miss Rs issues on those calls. On the first call on 30 March 2021  Miss R says that she was told by HSBC the previous day that the payment would be made that day, 
and it wasnt. But  having listened to those calls, I didnt hear HSBC say that. So  
overall, the calls were inconclusive in terms of deciding on Miss Rs complaint. But what 
is clear is that Miss R was, understandably frustrated at what had happened  and the 
communication problems clearly made this worse.
 
And so  the basic point here is that HSBC didnt make an error in blocking Miss Rs 
payment. They were entitled to do that as part of their obligations to prevent fraud. What 
then followed was an unfortunate series of communications problems  and these were 
clearly very frustrating for Miss R. But they werent a result of any mistake by HSBC. As 
Ive said, I recognise how Miss R feels about what happened, but on balance, I think the 
compensation of £100 that HSBC have offered for the problems she experienced on the 
calls is reasonable. If Miss R wants to accept that, she should get in touch with HSBC. 
But otherwise, I wont be asking HSBC to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman