DRN-3437346
Complaint
Mr S has complained that loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
irresponsibly provided unaffordable loans to him. 
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr S with a first loan for £1,300.00 in November 2018. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £102.62. In January 2020, Mr S was provided 
with a second loan for £1,173.97. Some of the proceeds from this loan were used to settle 
the amount still outstanding on loan 1. This loan had a 12-month term and had monthly 
repayments of £125.02. One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and Likely Loans had 
told us. And she didnt recommend that Mr S complaint be upheld. Mr S disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to understand whether Mr S could 
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans provided Mr S with loans for £1,300.00 and £1,173.97 in November 2018 and 
January 2020. These loans were due to be repaid in 18 instalments of £102.91 and 12 
instalments of £102.62 respectively. Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr S application after he 
provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it 
cross-checked this against information on payslips and a credit search it carried out and all 
of this information showed Mr S could to comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr S has said he was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has provided a high-level summary of the 
results of its credit searches. Likely Loans searches appear to show that Mr S had had 
previous difficulties repaying credit but that his commitments at the time were relatively well 
maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr S debt total at the time of the 
applications was reasonable in comparison to his income and they appeared to be relatively 
well managed. Ive also kept in mind that loan 2 was for a significantly lower amount. So it 
wasnt immediately obvious Mr S might have been taking loan 2 because of the effect loan 1 
left on his finances. And there isnt anything else obvious in either of these applications 
which lead me to think that further checks would have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr S actual circumstances dont appear to have been fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. Equally I accept that if 
Likely Loans had gone into the depth of checks Mr S appears to be saying it should have  
such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it would 
have seen the full extent of Mr S difficulties and the reasons for this. 
But the key here is that Likely Loans wasnt providing Mr S with a mortgage. It was providing 
loans for relatively small sums  especially when compared to Mr Ss income. Its only fair 
and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something 
wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Mr S 
is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr S - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Ss indebtedness, at least to it, appeared to be reducing rather than 
increasing unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman