DRN-2761975
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (Shop 
Direct) handled her account.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. so, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
In August 2020, Mrs B wrote to Shop Direct and informed it she was leaving the 
country to care for a sick relative. In her absence she asked it to set-up a direct debit 
for her account.
The direct debit wasnt set-up and the account incurred charges and affected Mrs Bs 
credit file.
Shop Direct says it has no record of receiving Mrs Bs letter and thats why the direct 
debit wasnt set-up. It therefore feels the charges and subsequent credit file 
notifications were a true reflection of what happened on the account.
Mrs B has since rectified the balance on her account, but shed like the impact on her 
credit file removed and for Shop Direct to apologise for its actions.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B asked for her complaint to be passed to 
an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, Mrs B hasnt been able to provide evidence her letter dated 1 August 2020 
was sent and received by Shop Direct. She has provided us a copy of the content of the 
letter which we shared with Shop Direct. It has said even if it had received the letter it 
wouldnt have been able to set up the variable direct debit on this alone, as there was no 
mandate  a requirement for a direct debit to be set-up which wouldve had to be done by 
way of a phone call or through Mrs Bs account online. Mrs B had also requested to change 
the name on the account, so it says it wouldve had to contact Mrs B for further information 
to process her request. 
Therefore, I dont think it would be fair to direct Shop Direct to act on information it didnt 
receive, and without evidence of it being sent by way of recorded or registered post and 
being signed for I cant say that it did receive it and failed to act upon it.
I can see the consequences and the impact on Mrs Bs credit file has caused her much 
worry and upset. But bearing in mind the importance of paying an agreed finance 
agreement, Mrs B couldve followed up her written request either by phone, checking with 
her bank if the direct debit had been set-up or using the Shop Direct website to manage her 
account prior to leaving the country.
Based on the information Ive seen Im not persuaded Shop Direct has made any error. And 
it is obliged as a responsible lender to report accurately the status of the account to the 
credit reference agencies. So, I wont be asking it to anything differently on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman