DRN-3749371
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly increased her premium at 
renewal and provided a poor standard of service, in relation to her motor insurance policy. 
Mrs D is represented by Mr D in this complaint. But for ease I will refer to Mrs D throughout 
my decision. 
What happened
At renewal of her motor insurance policy Mrs D noticed it had increased by around 16.5%. 
She says she covers significantly less miles now and the car is generally only used one day 
a week. But this hasnt made any difference to what she pays. 
Mrs D says when she contacted Aviva and asked for a postal address for the Chief 
Executives Office (CEO), she was told this couldnt be provided. She says the responses 
shes received from Aviva included errors regarding the premium increase. Shes also 
concerned that she was told to look for another insurer in an off-hand manner, if she 
remained dissatisfied. 
Aviva says Mrs Ds premium was calculated correctly. It says the minimum mileage that can 
be used in its underwriting calculations is 2,000 miles in any one year. Even if Mrs D covers 
fewer miles than this, it wouldnt have an impact on her premium.
Aviva says it has listened to two calls between Mrs D and its call handlers but a third call she 
refers to cant be located. It says its call handler shouldve provided the postal address Mrs 
D requested. It also says it doesnt dispute Mrs Ds recollection of the missing call, but it 
couldnt identify the call handler or a call recording from the information she provided. Aviva 
apologised for its poor standard of service, including not arranging a call back. 
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with this outcome and referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He says Aviva has shown it calculated her premium 
fairly according to its underwriting criteria. He asked that the business check again to see if it 
could locate the missing call recording. But this couldnt be found. Our investigator thought 
Aviva had done enough by apologising for the poor service.
Mrs D didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I understand she will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mrs D didnt think her premium shouldve increased at renewal. She told Aviva that she 
would be driving less than 1,000 miles a year and the car would only be used one day a 
week. I can understand her concern that the premium quoted had increased by around 
16.5% from the previous year. Especially given her description of the very limited use of her 
car. 
The premium an insurer charges is based on an assessment of the likelihood of a customer 
making a claim and how much this is likely to cost. A wide range of factors are considered, 
and each insurer will have its own approach and appetite for taking on risk. 
Its not our role to tell an insurer how to price their policies or what factors they should 
consider when calculating a risk. However, we will look to see that an insurer is applying a 
fair and consistent approach to all consumers.
Aviva says the premium increased in the renewal quote from £422.51 to £492.22. I can see 
it originally referred to this as a 15% increase. This isnt correct. Its closer to 16.5% as Mrs 
D advised. I note that Aviva acknowledged this mistake in its letter dated in June 2022. 
In its letter Aviva says Mrs D benefitted from a £10 discount in the previous year. Because of 
this it says the actual increase is more like 13.8% if the discount hadnt been applied. It says 
this has exaggerated the percentage increase. 
To understand how Aviva had calculated Mrs Ds premium, and to ensure she hasnt been 
treated differently to other customers, we asked for its underwriting criteria. This information 
is commercially sensitive, so I cant share it with Mrs D. But I have considered it carefully to 
understand if she has been treated unfairly. 
Having done so I cant see that Mrs D was treated any differently from any other Aviva 
customer. The underwriting criteria states the minimum mileage Aviva allows is 2,000 per 
year. I understand Mrs Ds disappointment that her expected mileage of less than 1,000 
miles didnt reduce her premium. But Aviva is able to decide what factors it uses when 
calculating the cost of its policies. It isnt discriminating against Mrs D by treating her 
differently from its other customers, so I cant say that it has behaved unfairly here.
Ill turn now to Mrs Ds complaint about the call handlers she spoke to. This involves a postal 
address she requested for the CEO that wasnt given, and the lack of a call back being 
arranged.
Aviva says its call handlers arent advised to refrain from giving out the CEOs address. It 
says it doesnt dispute Mrs Ds recollection of the call she had with one particular agent. But 
despite searching its records using the number Mrs D had called from, it was unable to 
locate a call recording to listen to. 
Aviva says there is no note attached to Mrs Ds account that would identify the call handler 
or their supervisor. It acknowledges the service provided by this call handler was 
unacceptable but that it could do no more to identify this individual. 
We did ask Aviva to review its records again, to see if a call recording could be located. This 
wasnt successful. I have no reason to dispute Mrs Ds recollection of her conversation with 
this call handler. I can understand why she complained about the service provided. But I 
think Avivas apology is fair in acknowledging the poor service. It has since provided detailed 
responses to explain that Mrs Ds premium was calculated correctly. Although I understand 
Mrs D is unlikely to be satisfied with this outcome, I think Aviva has responded appropriately 
to her concerns. 
I can see that Aviva suggested alternative insurers may be able to offer Mrs D a lower premium based on her very low annual mileage. I acknowledge that she found this to be 
dismissive given that she is a long-standing customer. But having seen Avivas underwriting 
criteria its clear it wasnt able to offer a lower premium. In the circumstances I think it was 
reasonable to suggest that another insurer may offer a lower premium if Mrs D hadnt 
already thought about this. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think Aviva treated Mrs D unfairly when calculating her 
premium. It didnt provide a good standard of service in relation to its call handling, but it has 
investigated the matter and apologised which I think is reasonable. Because of this I cant 
fairly ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman