DRN-3710041
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about a data breach HSBC UK Bank Plc caused when sending 
correspondence about one of their accounts to a third party.
What happened
Around February 2022 a third party, Mr and Mrs Ts daughter, received corresponded from 
HSBC in relation to a statement for a savings account held in Mr and Mrs Ts joint names. 
HSBC investigated Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and upheld it. It said it resolved the error as 
soon as it was made aware; and in its final response it offered £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Unhappy with its response Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to 
our service for review. 
Our investigator reviewed the details and concluded HSBCs offer was fair and reasonable in 
resolution of the complaint. She said HSBC had acknowledged its error and corrected the 
account details to ensure future statements were correctly sent to Mr and Mrs T. She 
considered HSBCs award of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to be fair and 
reasonable in resolution of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept our investigators findings. They said £300 wasnt enough to 
compensate them for the problems this error caused within their family; and the distress and 
inconvenience theyd suffered. They also said HSBC hadnt been able to identify the cause 
of the error, and as such they feel they have no assurance this wont happen again. 
Mr and Mrs T asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since our investigators assessment HSBC has provided further details explaining how the 
error occurred. It has said that when Mrs T was removed as a joint account holder from an 
account she held with her daughter, the HSBC advisor needed to manually update the 
salutation used for correspondence on its system. HSBC has said the advisor incorrectly 
updated the savings account Mrs T held jointly with Mr T; and amended the salutation to 
their daughters name. This action was taken in June 2021 but because the savings account 
statements are sent out yearly, around February, it only came to light when the next annual 
statement was received around February 2022. 
It therefore appears HSBC has now identified the cause of the error, and in any event, has 
confirmed it was resolved as its system was correctly updated in March 2022. As such I think 
Mr and Mrs T can reasonably take assurance from this that they shouldnt experience this 
same error again when next years statement is produced.  
It therefore appears theres no longer an active dispute here. HSBC has acknowledged the 
error and confirmed it has resolved the problem to ensure no further correspondence is sent 
to the incorrect party; and it has put forward an offer of £300 to resolve the complaint. So, 
my decision here solely considers whether HSBCs offer is fair and reasonable in resolution 
of this complaint. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs T and HSBC as part of the complaint process; as well 
as taking into account Mr and Mrs Ts testimony about the impact the error had on them. Its 
clear that the situation was distressing as their personal financial information had been 
shared with their daughter; and which they say caused problems within the family as their 
daughter thought this money was a gift which caused upset with another sibling. 
But Ive considered that this assumption would have been for a relatively short period of time 
before Mr and Mrs T could reassure their family members, and contact HSBC about the 
problem. And Ive also considered that while the statement was addressed to their daughter, 
the account name clearly showed Mr and Mrs T, and had all of Mr and Mrs Ts account 
details. So, on balance, I dont think it would have been unreasonable to conclude this 
statement had been received by the daughter in error, rather than HSBC sending it to show 
the funds were being gifted from Mr and Mrs T. 
So, for broadly the same reasons as our investigator, I consider HSBCs award of £300 fairly 
reflects the level of impact HSBCs error had on Mr and Mrs T; and is in line with our 
approach in the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I dont doubt the 
distress and inconvenience that the error caused; and the upset that followed within their 
family. But this was a single error which required a reasonable amount of effort on Mr and 
Mrs Ts part to resolve. I consider they would quickly and reasonably have been able to 
confirm the situation with their family; and I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for how Mr 
and Mrs Ts family members interpreted the information they received. 
HSBC has confirmed the payment of £300 has already been made to Mr and Mrs T, so Im 
not directing it to take any further action in resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman