DRN-2193423
The complaint
C, a firm of loss assessors complains on behalf of Mr M that U K Insurance Limited has 
rejected his landlord insurance claim for malicious damage to his let property.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr M arranged a tenancy of his property with a company, B. The owner of 
that company had explained that he was seeking accommodation for victims of the Grenfell 
fire. As I understand it, the tenancy was between Mr M and B. There was subsequently also 
a tenancy agreement naming a couple, Mr and Mrs B, as the tenants. Credit checks had 
been carried out and recommended that B wasnt a suitable tenant in view of its credit 
record. Mr and Mrs B supplied driving licences (which I understand were subsequently found 
to be false). Although their bank validation was in order, no other credit information was 
available for them. Nevertheless the people purporting to be Mr and Mrs B moved in.
The agents attempted to inspect the property a couple of times but were given excuses by 
the occupants. The rent continued to be paid, but in April 2019, following his gardener 
raising suspicions, Mr M attended the property to find it empty and considerable damage had 
been done by the setting up of a cannabis farm, holes in the ceiling and walls, furniture 
moved around and the property throughout was extremely dirty. The locks had been 
changed.
Mr M made a claim to UKI who sent out a loss adjuster to inspect. The loss adjusters view 
was that the damage had been done deliberately to facilitate the growing of cannabis. UKI 
pointed out that although there is cover for damage done by malicious persons, there is an 
exclusion for damage caused by tenants or other persons lawfully on the premises. Since it 
believed the damage was caused either by or with the consent of the tenants it said the 
claim wasnt covered.
C argued that the tenants themselves were unlawfully on the premises  their driving 
licences were found to be false and their occupations as set out to the letting agents didnt 
tally with the fact that they had supposedly been employees of B. It pointed out that there 
were other people on the premises  letters were addressed to a person unknown to Mr M or 
the agents. So it said they were clearly unlawful sub tenants. And the growing of cannabis is 
an illegal activity in breach of the tenancy agreement which made any person doing it to be 
unlawfully there.
On referral to this service our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He pointed out that 
the tenancy agreement was with B and it was likely that B gave permission both for the 
people calling themselves Mr and Mrs B and any other persons to be there. So they were 
lawfully on the premises notwithstanding that they were carrying out an illegal activity.
C disagreed, pointing out in particular ta the whole set up of the tenancy was a fraud. So as 
the tenants obtained the tenancy fraudulently they werent ever tenants nor were they 
lawfully on the premises. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I have to establish whether the damage was deliberate, caused by malicious 
persons, as there is cover for accidental damage in the policy. I think from the photos and 
the description of the damage that it was all done so that cannabis plants could be 
cultivated. Holes were cut in the wall and the ceiling to allow wires and (presumably) ducting 
through. The property was very dirty throughout caused by the plants. And the locks were 
changed deliberately presumably to deny access to the agents or Mr M. Im satisfied this 
was damage by malicious persons.
UKI has applied the following exclusion to the malicious persons peril:
Damagecaused by Your Employees, tenants or any other persons lawfully in Your 
premises.
The tenancy agreement in this case was between Mr M and B. There was a subsequent 
tenancy agreement purporting to be between Mr M and Mr and Mrs B, but unlike the other 
tenancy agreement this was only signed by Mr and Mrs B and not by Mr M. But its clear that 
Mr B anticipated B installing sub-tenants.
I dont know whether Mr and Mrs B were genuine sub-tenants or whether they ever took up 
occupation of the property, When the agents attempted to inspect they appeared to accept 
as genuine their inability to allow inspection. And the rent was paid on time every month.
The records showed that B is a genuine company registered at Companies House, and that 
the person Mr M says he met with is listed as director of the company. So the tenant was 
on the face of it genuine. I think that its likely that as the tenant, B let Mr and Mrs B and/or 
persons unknown into the property and that the cannabis growing was done as a result of 
that. Whilst this was an illegal activity and in breach of the tenancy agreement, this doesnt 
mean that either Mr and Mrs B or the persons they let in werent lawfully on the premises. A 
serious breach of the tenancy agreement may allow the landlord to repossess but only 
through a court order. I take into account that the property wasnt broken into, so its unlikely 
that the cannabis farm was set up without B knowing of it (or turning a blind eye to it). I 
understand that the owner of B and Mr and Mrs B cant be contacted.
I do also note that according to the credit check, B wasnt thought to be a suitable tenant and 
Mr and Mrs B had no credit information apart from a bank validation. So Mr M must have 
understood he was taking a risk. But I do sympathise with him that he must have felt badly 
let down, especially as he used letting agents.
So I think that UKI fairly applied the exclusion in the policy for damage by malicious persons 
as I think that either the tenant or persons that were allowed to be on the premises were 
responsible for the damage.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman