DRN-1665973
The complaint
Miss S has complained National Westminster Bank Plc didnt give her enough notice when 
they closed her account. This resulted in her losing out on mobile phone and breakdown 
insurance which led to increased costs.  
What happened
In August 2019 NatWest gave Miss S immediate notice of their intention to close her 
accounts. She held three accounts with them. This included her current account which was 
funding direct debits for her personal loan with NatWest. She complained to them theyd also 
blocked her getting hold of her money in her ISA account.
NatWest believed theyd done nothing wrong. They had sufficient reasons to suspect the use 
Miss S was making of her accounts to close these immediately. Miss S brought her 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. He felt NatWest were able to close Miss Ss account 
but in fact theyd not done that. Theyd misled Miss S by implying her account was closed. 
Theyd also limited her opportunity to settle the loan which meant she was continuing to pay 
interest on the debt. He asked NatWest to refund any interest on the personal loan from the 
date Miss Ss accounts were closed and use any remaining credit in her current account to 
settle the outstanding loan debt. He also believed NatWest should pay Miss S £150 
compensation.
NatWest accepted this outcome, although they made no reference to refunding the interest 
paid. Miss S believed more compensation should be paid to her to compensate her for what 
shed lost.
Her complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same outcome as our investigator and for similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly Ive looked at whether NatWest was able to make the decision they did: to close 
Miss Ss accounts without notice. NatWests terms and conditions specify the reasons they 
can close a customers account immediately. NatWest has also explained their reasoning to 
us, although weve seen nothing as specific as I would generally like.
However its clear that even if NatWest hadnt intended to close Miss Ss accounts 
immediately, theyd have provided her with two months notice. Theyd already made the 
decision they no longer wished to have her as a customer. I wont say theyre not able to 
make that decision.
And the resolution our investigator felt was fair works whether Miss S received two months 
or immediate notice.
I appreciate Miss S believes she had additional costs as she lost the ability to use the mobile 
phone insurance or car breakdown as part of her account services. The evidence shows 
NatWest didnt charge Miss S for these services after her account was closed on 10 August 
2019. Ive also seen nothing to show what additional costs Miss S has had. At the time 
NatWest gave her their final response, they offered to pay Miss Ss additional telephone 
costs for the time shed spent calling them. They, too, received no evidence from Miss S.
Whilst NatWest told Miss S they were closing her accounts, I cant see they made it clear 
that her current account  which had a credit balance  continued to function to pay off her 
personal loan. Nor is it clear what opportunity Miss S was given to use the money in her 
current account to pay off her personal loan which would have reduced the amount of 
interest payable on that loan. Miss S was told shed be able to get the existing balance from 
her branch but this didnt turn out to be the case. Its fair to say that this appears to be the 
major impact on Miss S. This is why I believe its fair compensation is payable.
I appreciate Miss S was upset her accounts were closed and she wasnt able to get a clear 
idea of why that had happened. That must have been upsetting. And she may well have had 
additional costs. But once NatWest had made the decision to close her accounts, then there 
was always going to be an impact on her unfortunately.
Miss S has also been concerned at the information NatWest may have put on her credit 
record. As far as I can see Miss S was paying off her NatWest loan on time so there should 
be no impact until perhaps NatWest passed her debt on to a debt recovery company. This 
seemed to have happened recently and after NatWest agreed the principles of our 
investigators view.
Putting things right
Like our investigator, I believe its fair and reasonable NatWest work from the position of 
Miss Ss loan account as at 10 August 2019. No further interest should be added from that 
date forward.
As at 20 February 2020 Miss S had a current account balance of £273.48. NatWest has 
stated the loan had £354.77 left to repay but that may need to be recalculated bearing in 
mind what Ive said about the interest.
The balance of Miss Ss account should be used to repay Miss Ss loan. If any of the loan 
remains owing, NatWest needs to write that off and ensure Miss Ss credit record reflects the 
loan as satisfied and settled. If this repays the loan and more, NatWest must refund any 
money left over to Miss S, along with 8% simple interest from the date her account was 
closed.
Im also awarding Miss S £200 in compensation for the impact of not being clear to her about 
the status of her accounts. This is a slight increase on what our investigator asked NatWest 
to pay. Thats because Im sure NatWests stance and lack of clarity limited the ability of 
Miss S to take action earlier to sort things out rather than have things hanging over her for a 
prolonged period.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to:Re-calculate Miss Ss loan account so that no further interest is added after 
10 August 2019;
Settle the loan account based on payments made after 10 August 2019 and the 
residue in Miss Ss current account;
Mark the loan as satisfied and settled on Miss Ss credit record;
Repay any money to Miss S if any is owed after this re-calculation;
Add 8% simple interest a year to any repayment from 10 August 2019 until the date 
of settlement; and
Pay Miss S £200 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman