DRN-2138023
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr R has raised a number of complaints about the service provided by Barclays which it has 
dealt with as separate complaints. I am dealing with the following three complaints within this 
decision:
Barclays wrongly put a bereavement marker on his trading account that prevented 
him logging into his account and selling shares on 17 September 2019.
He was again unable to initially trade shares on 25 February 2020 because another 
deceased marker had been put on his account.
Barclays didnt pay the proceeds from a share sale into his nominated account as it 
shouldve done.
Barclays upheld each of these complaints and offered redress, but Mr R didnt think what it 
offered was reasonable.
One of our investigators considered the complaints and made the following findings:
Mr R attempted to log into his account on 17 September 2019 at 16.56 and was 
blocked because of the bereavement marker that had been placed on his account. 
But as the markets were closed when he attempted to log in, he wouldnt have been 
able to sell his shares anyway. She thought the £300 for having placed the deceased 
marker on the account was reasonable.
Mr R had again attempted to log in to his account to sell shares on 25 February 2020 
and was unable to do so because a marker had again been placed on his account. 
The marker was temporarily removed that day as a result of a long webchat between 
Mr R and Barclays, so he was able to sell his shares. Barclays offered a further £300 
for the trouble and upset caused which the investigator said was in line with the sort 
of award we would make.
Mr R wanted the proceeds of the share sale on 25 February 2020 to be paid into his 
new Nominated Bank Account (NBA) and provided the details to Barclays. It failed to 
inform him that it would take five days to change the NBA details, so the proceeds 
were paid into his old NBA. Mr R had to make numerous phone calls to find out what 
had happened to his money and then visit his branch on two occasions to get access 
to his old NBA. Barclays offered Mr R £250 for the trouble and upset caused and a 
further £70 for the cost of the taxi fares for the branch visits which the investigator 
thought was fair and reasonable.
The amounts offered by Barclays for each individual complaint are in line with what 
our service would award. But as the complaints involve an ongoing issue when Mr R 
was under the impression the problem had been resolved it should pay a further 
£250.
Barclays had said it had now identified the cause for the bereavement marker being 
placed on Mr Rs account and that the problem had been resolved.
Barclays didnt agree that it should pay a further £250. It said that the offers it had made in 
respect of the various complaints took into account the trouble and upset caused and the 
investigator had agreed the offers were fair and reasonable.
Mr R also didnt agree with the investigator. In summary he made the following points:
He had initially contacted us on 20 September 2019 because a deceased marker had 
been placed on his account and he believes this related to his previous complaint in 
2018.
If Barclays admit it has done something wrong, why has he had no formal apology.
Barclays placed a deceased marker on his account on 16 September 2019 and he 
was unable to trade his shares on either 17 September 2019 or 18 September 2019.
Barclays have not contacted him to say that it has resolved the issue and what 
evidence has it provided to us that it has done so?
There is a difference between compensation and reimbursement. He accepts the 
compensation, but the investigator hasnt considered the costs related to this 
complaint.
The investigator responded to the points Mr R had raised and said she couldnt consider 
what had happened in 2018 as he had complained at the time and this had been resolved. 
She said she wasnt in apposition to ask Barclays to give a formal apology. She also said 
that Mr R wouldnt have been able to trade on 17 September 2019 because he logged in too 
late. She said that Barclays had told us that the issue with the deceased marker had been 
resolved by removing his details from its minor reporting database.
Mr R provided a further response in which he said that to understand the consequences of 
Barclays actions it was necessary to understand the cause and questioned whether the 
cause of the deceased marker in 2019 was the error made in 2018. 
He agreed that he had been too late to trade on 17 September 2019 but still wanted 
consideration to be given between the difference in share price at close of business on that 
day and the following day when access to his account was reinstated. 
Mr R said Barclays said it couldnt guarantee the problem wouldnt arise again, so he isnt 
willing to accept some passed on message that the problem has been resolved. He said that 
he still wanted us to consider the time he had spent and the costs he had incurred in having 
to deal with the problems Barclays created.
As the parties didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no issue that Barclays failed to provide the service Mr R was entitled to receive from 
it. Barclays has acknowledged its failings and upheld the complaints that Mr D has made. 
Having considered the information from the parties I think it was right to uphold the 
complaints and, in the circumstances, dont think it is necessary for me to provide detailed 
findings on why the complaints should be upheld.
I turn to what Barclays should do to put things right which I think requires going into some 
detail about what happened.Mr R initially had cause to complain to Barclays in 2018 when it put a deceased marker on 
his account. That complaint does not form part of this complaint, as it was previously 
referred to us and we agreed that Barclays offer of £600 was reasonable. But I think it is 
important to note that Barclays didnt resolve the issue relating to the deceased marker in 
2018.
I note what Mr R has said about us needing to understand the cause of the subsequent 
deceased marker being placed on his account in 2019 and whether this was because of 
what happened in 2018. Im satisfied there was an ongoing issue with regard to the 
deceased marker being put on his account after 2018, and from what Barclays said in its 
final response letter of 10 October 2019 this was because it didnt do what it shouldve done 
in 2018. I dont think it is necessary to consider that point further. 
The second time that Mr R became aware that a deceased marker had been put on his 
account, was 17 September 2019 when he tried to access his online account. This was only 
resolved the following day and involved Mr R in various telephone calls.
Mr R argues that Barclays should be responsible for the difference in the share price of one 
of his holdings between close of business on the 17 September 2019 and 18 September 
2019 on the basis that he wouldve sold the shares if he had access to his account.
But although I acknowledge Mr R has indicated he wanted to sell his shares I have to 
consider the evidence as a whole - and from the information I have seen Im not satisfied 
that it is more likely than not he wouldve sold his shares if he had been able to access his 
account sooner. 
This is because when he contacted Barclays on the 17 September 2019 about being unable 
to access his account he didnt make reference to wanting to sell any shares. Also, in his 
initial complaint to Barclays he said he had been unable to access his online account to 
review his current account not that he had been unable to access it so he could sell shares. 
I accept that it is possible that he might then have chosen to sell his shares. But he didnt 
make any attempt to sell his shares once the deceased marker was removed and there isnt 
any persuasive evidence to show that it is more likely than not that he intended to sell his 
shares on 17 or 18 September 2019. And Im unable to make an award based simply 
because it is possible that he might have chosen to sell his shares.
I also note that it is accepted by Mr R that he wouldnt have been able to sell his shares on 
17 September 2019 anyway, regardless of any deceased marker. This is because he only 
tried to access his account just before 17.00 hours, and the latest he wouldve been able to 
trade was 16.30 hours. So, the price of the shares on 17 September 2019 isnt relevant 
anyway.
I have considered the amount that Barclays has offered for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by a deceased marker being put on Mr Rs account for the second time. Barclays did 
remove the marker quickly, within 24 hours of Mr R first contacting it. But that involved Mr R 
having to telephone Barclays and I note he has also said that this affected his direct debits 
which he then had to deal with.
I dont think £300 is unreasonable for a one-off incident where the issue is resolved at the 
time. But Im mindful that this wasnt a one-off. I think for this to have occurred a second time 
wouldve been very distressing to Mr R as he would reasonably have expected Barclays to 
have resolved the issue regarding this the previous year. For him to have the same problem 
again in 2019 must have been both upsetting and frustrating.There was then a third occasion a deceased marker was placed on Mr Rs account so that 
he was unable to initially sell some shares on 25 February 2020. As the investigator noted, 
he was then able to trade after a long webchat with Barclays when the marker was 
temporarily removed. Again, I think the £300 offered for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is reasonable if this is looked at as a one-off issue.
The third issue that arose wasnt related to a deceased marker but is to do with Mr R not 
being made aware that the proceeds of a share sale wouldnt be paid into his new NBA on 
25 February. To resolve that issue Mr R not only had to make a number of telephone calls, 
but also had to arrange to go to his local branch. 
As well as the inconvenience of having to resolve this with Barclays Mr R wouldve been 
caused distress because the proceeds of the share sale werent visible in his new NBA 
which wouldve obviously concerned him. I think the amount offered in respect of that issue - 
£250 plus £70 towards taxi fares  is reasonable.
But I think the fact that there was an ongoing issue with Mr R being periodically identified as 
being deceased from 2018 through to 2020 is relevant to the amount that he should receive 
for distress and inconvenience. As I have said, if each incident is looked at as a one-off then 
the amounts awarded are not necessarily unreasonable. 
But I dont think the awards for the deceased marker being placed on the accounts are 
enough when one considers these werent one-off incidents, but an ongoing issue that arose 
in 2018 and lasted until 2020. I agree with the investigator that a further £250 should be paid 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by what Barclays got wrong. 
Putting it another way, if I was looking only at the complaint about the deceased marker 
placed on the account in February 2020 I wouldve taken into account that this wasnt a one 
off incident but the third time this had happened and I am likely to have awarded more than 
the £300 Barclays offered for that as I think there is likely to be greater distress caused when 
an issue keeps on arising, especially if it is something such as continuing to identify Mr R as 
deceased given the serious health conditions he had to deal with in 2018. 
Mr R has said he wants confirmation in writing from Barclays that it has resolved the problem 
by removing his details from the minor reporting database  which it says was identified as 
the reason the deceased marker kept being placed on Mr Rs account. I dont think there is 
any reason Barclays shouldnt confirm this to him, but I wouldnt expect it to guarantee an 
issue couldnt arise in the future because I dont think it is possible to make such a 
guarantee. I would also point out that any such guarantee wouldnt of itself prevent a 
problem occurring in the future in any event. 
Mr R thinks that account should be taken of the time and costs he has incurred in dealing 
with the problem created by Barclays. But we dont generally make awards based on some 
notional hourly rate and I dont think it is appropriate to do so here. The award for distress 
and inconvenience is to include the time and expense Mr R has incurred in dealing with the 
issues.
Mr R has referred to a formal apology, but Barclays has apologised in its final response 
letters as I would expect it to do, and I dont think it is necessary for it to do more than this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay 
Mr R the redress I have set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman