DRN-4020390
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society incorrectly said he asked for his account to 
be closed and delayed sending him a final response which caused him financial hardship. 
What happened
Mr C applied for an account with Nationwide. He was not eligible for the account he 
requested and so he was offered a basic account instead. He accepted this and the account 
was opened on 2 June 2022.
Mr C says that he received an e-mail saying the account had been closed as per his request, 
however he did not request the account closure. As this occurred prior to his benefits being 
paid into the account, he tried to apply for a hardship payment with the department of work 
and pensions. However, he needed evidence that he had not closed the account himself. 
Nationwide did not get back to him promptly and this caused him financial hardship. 
Nationwide has said that Mr Cs account was closed on 7 June 2022 as he did not meet the 
account criteria. They have said this was done in line with the terms and conditions and that 
Mr C was sent an e-mail on 7 June 2022 explaining this was the case. Because of this, they 
did not feel they had made an error in the circumstances. 
Mr C referred the case to our service and an Investigator looked into the complaint. They 
reviewed the evidence and agreed that the account had been closed in line with the terms 
and conditions and that Nationwide had clearly communicated that this was due to Mr C not 
being eligible for the account. As they did not think Nationwide had made an error, they did 
not agree they were responsible for any hardship Mr C faced after the account was closed. 
Mr C disagreed with this, he felt the information he had been given by Nationwide was 
misleading as the account was opened without proper checks being carried out.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons, and I wont be 
asking Nationwide to take any further action on this complaint. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Nationwide have explained that Mr C did not meet the eligibility requirements for the 
account. While I can appreciate it is frustrating that this was not assessed prior to the 
account being initially approved, its not always possible to fully assess the eligibility based 
on the application information alone. Nationwide have repeatedly explained that following a 
review of the account on 7 June 2022, it was found Mr C did not meet the account criteria 
and he was informed of this the same day. On balance, I think Nationwide acted promptly 
once they completed a review. 
Mr C has said the information he was given was misleading and has referenced an e-mail he 
was sent in which it said that he requested for the account to be closed. This e-mail was sent 
on 8 June and I can see that this was in relation to the savings account. 
Nationwide has also evidenced that it sent another e-mail the day before to Mr Cs correct  
e-mail address from the applications vetting team. This clearly set out that although they 
opened an account for him, they had to close it down as he was not eligible for it and that he 
would not be able to use it anymore. Looking at this, I think Mr C was clearly informed that 
his account had been closed as Nationwide was unable to offer it to him any longer. So, I 
cant see it has made an error in its communication. 
I understand that the timing of the account closure affected Mr C and caused him some 
short-term financial difficulty. And that Nationwide did not produce a letter confirming they 
had closed the account as quickly as he would have liked. But considering that I think it was 
reasonable that Nationwide closed the account and that they clearly communicated this to 
Mr C, I dont think they have made an error in the circumstances. So, I dont think they need 
to take further action in relation to what happened after the account was closed. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman