DRN-3473584
The complaint
Ms B is complaining about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has 
handled a dispute she raised about a payment she made on her credit card for a kitchen. 
What happened
Around November 2019 Ms B entered into a contract with a third-party company  who I 
shall refer to as H  to supply a kitchen. H was to supply cabinets, the worktops and 
appliances. The total cost was around £10,000.
In January 2020 Ms B contacted AESEL to raise a dispute. AESEL raised a chargeback for 
£3,400 in respect to the worktops. Ms B eventually received £3,400 back  £2,340 from H 
and AESEL paid the remaining £1,060. Ms B was unhappy with the way AESEL handled 
that chargeback claim and referred her complaint to this service. This issue was considered 
under another complaint reference. 
Following that, Ms B raised a further dispute about the appliances and flooring. She also 
doesnt think H designed the kitchen fairly. AESEL reviewed this dispute under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). But it said Ms B wasnt eligible to raise a 
Section 75 claim because it said the contract with H was actually between H and another 
business  who I shall refer to as S. Ms B doesnt think this is fair because it said the 
purchase was only done through Ss trade account with H to enable her to buy the kitchen. 
But she maintains it was her who bought the kitchen and she paid H directly. She also 
queried why AESEL didnt consider this dispute under the original chargeback claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said it was fair for AESEL to say Ms B 
wasnt eligible to raise a Section 75 claim. He also said there wasnt anything to show Ms B 
had raised the issues with the issues with the flooring, appliances etc with AESEL at the 
same time as she raised the dispute about the worktops.
Ms B didnt agree with the investigator. She maintained that H hadnt supplied the kitchen 
she ordered and it was still in a poor state. And she also maintained that she did raise all the 
issues with AESEL at the start and doesnt understand why it split the disputes. As Ms B 
didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Firstly, Im conscious Ive summarised this complaint and Ms Bs submissions in a lot less 
detail than shes set out. I dont mean any discourtesy by this and I assure all parties that 
Ive read and considered everything theyve provided. However, in this decision Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key issues. Our rules entitle me to do this and it simply 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
I should also set out that Im only considering the actions of AESEL in this case  i.e. the 
way its handled the dispute Ms B has raised. I appreciate Ms B feels strongly that H has 
treated her unfairly. But Im only considering the extent to which AESEL has handed the 
dispute and whether its liable for anything H did wrong.
Ms B is complaining about the way AESEL handled a dispute over a payment she made to H 
for a kitchen. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, 
the card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  chargeback and Section 75. I 
would expect the card provider to consider both avenues. Ill consider both separately.
Section 75
Ms B paid for the kitchen on her AESEL credit card. Section 75 sets out that, in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, AESEL is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier  in this case H.  
However, as I said, in order for Section 75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be 
satisfied  one of which is establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS) between 
the parties. In essence, the key here is that its the debtor who is entitled to make a claim 
against the creditor, and their claim against the creditor is the same as their claim against 
the supplier. So, if the debtor doesnt have a claim themselves against the supplier, they 
cant hold the creditor liable for any breach of contract with the supplier.
Ive looked at Hs invoice and its clear that the contract is between H and S. This is 
consistent with what I know about H as it generally only supplies goods to businesses or 
sole traders. And the purchaser needs to have a trade account with H to purchase goods 
from them. I understand Ms B has said she only used Ss account to enable her to purchase 
the goods. But the reality is that the contracting parties here are H and S. While Ms B is the 
beneficiary of the goods shes not entered into a contract with H.
As I said, Ms B has said that she only used Ss account to purchase the kitchen and was the 
intended contracting party. But, if I was to accept that this was the case, shes essentially 
misled H to provide a kitchen under false pretences as it considered the contracting party to 
be S. I dont think it would be fair to hold AESEL liable in these circumstances.
But, ultimately, as Ms B wasnt the contracting party with H, it follows that there isnt the 
required DCS relationship between all parties. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
AESEL to say it wasnt liable for anything H may or may not have done wrong under 
Section 75.
Chargeback
Firstly, this service has already considered AESELs handling of the chargeback claim for 
the worktop. So I wont consider this further in this decision. Ive now thought about whether 
it was unfair for AESEL to not raise a chargeback claim for the outstanding issues  i.e. the 
appliances, flooring etc.
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. When a 
business raises a chargeback, it will initially temporarily refund the payment back onto the 
card account and will then raise a dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required 
to respond within a prescribed period of time with any further information it wishes to provide 
and set out why it thinks the chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is 
defended, then the temporary refund is returned to the merchant.However, a business is entitled to consider the prospects of success from raising the 
chargeback before deciding whether to raise it. The rules around when a chargeback claim 
can be raised are very strict and typically set out that  in the case where the service 
provided was not of the standard expected  it needs to be raised within 120 days of the last 
date the service were provided, but not more than 540 days of the transaction date. 
I understand the kitchen was delivered around 6 January 2020. So I think AESEL had up to 
around 16 April 2020 to raise a chargeback claim, but I cant see that Ms B raised a dispute 
about the issues in question until a long time after this. Ms B says she told AESEL about the 
issues when she first raised the dispute about the work surfaces, but I havent seen anything 
to support this. 
Due to the passage of time, there arent any call recordings available for what was discussed 
at the time and thats not unreasonable. Ive reviewed the call notes for the calls that took 
place at that time and read the letters that were sent, but I havent seen anything to show 
that Ms B asked AESEL to raise a dispute about anything other than the worktops. In one 
call in March 2020 she refers to the issues in question, but there isnt anything to show she 
wanted to raise a further dispute about this. Im particularly conscious that AESEL wrote to 
Ms B asking her to provide any further evidence or comments that she wanted it to consider, 
but she didnt do so. Ultimately, I cant see that Ms B raised these issues in time. So it 
follows that I dont think it was unreasonable that AESEL hasnt raised a chargeback for 
these remaining issues.
Summary
I appreciate Ms B feels strongly about whats happened, but for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont think its liable under Section 75 for anything H may or may not have done 
wrong. I also dont think it was unreasonable AESEL didnt raise a chargeback for the 
appliances, flooring etc because I dont think Ms B was eligible to raise it under the rules as 
she was out of time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman