DRN-2677699
The complaint
Miss B complains about ERS Syndicate Management Limited (ERS) and their decision to 
decline her car insurance claim.
What happened
In October 2020, Miss B was involved in a road traffic accident. She made a claim on her car 
insurance policy, which was underwritten by ERS.
After an inspection, her car was deemed a total loss due to the damage it sustained. As Miss 
Bs car was purchased on a finance agreement, a settlement figure was received from the 
finance company. ERS spoke to Miss B to explain the payment shed receive for her car, 
and how much this would cover the outstanding finance amount. But during this call, Miss B 
told ERS the finance was taken out by her father. Because of this, ERS asked Miss B to 
provide her V5 document so they could make further enquiries with the finance company.
The V5 document listed Miss Bs father as the registered keeper. Miss B explained her 
father paid the finance for the car, but she was gifted the car and the one who drove it. So, 
she classed herself as the owner. ERS passed this new information to their underwriters to 
validate the claim. The underwriters considered the V5 document against the information 
Miss B provided the broker when the policy was taken out. And they decided if theyd been 
made aware that Miss Bs father was the registered keeper, they wouldnt have approved 
Miss Bs insurance policy.
Because of this, ERS declined Miss Bs claim and voided her insurance policy. Miss B was 
unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss B didnt think it was fair of ERS to decline the claim. She explained she hadnt realised 
there was a difference between being the owner of the car, which she thought she was, and 
the registered keeper. She didnt think the options provided on the comparison website she 
used made it clear.
ERS didnt agree. They thought Miss B had a duty to provide them with accurate information 
when the policy was incepted and referred to the terms and conditions of the policy. They 
explained their underwriting criteria showed that, if Miss B had declared her father as the 
registered keeper, the policy wouldnt have been offered to her. So, they thought theyd 
acted fairly and in line with the conditions of the policy when declining the claim. Miss B 
remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised Miss B had 
made a genuine mistake and hadnt intended to provide incorrect information when she took 
out the policy. But he was satisfied the information was incorrect and that ERS wouldnt have 
offered Miss B the policy if theyd had the accurate information. So, he didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong when declining the claim and voiding the policy. He explained ERS 
were able to make commercial decisions on who they provide cover for and what their 
underwriting criteria covered. Because of this, he didnt think they needed to do anything 
more.
Miss B didnt agree. She thought it was the finance company who was the registered owner 
and keeper of the car, not her father. So, she thought shed been treated unfairly if other 
claims were upheld for insurance policies on financed cars. She maintained her view that the 
claim had been declined unfairly. As Miss B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Miss B. Ive no doubt Miss B 
didnt intentionally provide the incorrect information to ERS. I think she provided the 
information she thought was correct at the time and as the car was gifted to her, I can 
understand why she thought she was the owner of the car. So, when she was involved in a 
road traffic accident, I can appreciate why she assumed her insurance policy would assist 
her when she made a claim. And when the claim was declined, I think this wouldve both 
shocked and upset her, and left her and her father in a difficult financial position.
But for me to say ERS have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied that they failed 
to work in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when they declined it. Or if they 
did, that their decision to do so was unfair. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
ERS declined the claim as they felt the information Miss B provided at the inception of the 
policy was inaccurate. So, Ive considered whether this was a reasonable decision in line 
with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
To decline a claim under this act, I need to see that the information Miss B provided was a 
qualifying misrepresentation. To do this, Ive had to consider the questions Miss B was 
asked, the answer she gave and whether this answer was incorrect. Ive seen Miss B was 
asked the following question the comparison website and it was then shown on the 
statement of fact she received when the policy was taken out:
The vehicle is owned and registered in your name? 
Miss B answered yes to this question. I think the question itself is clear and although it asks 
about the ownership which I understand Miss B thought she was, it also clearly asks whether 
the car was registered in her name. And from the V5 document Ive seen, it was registered in 
her fathers name, not hers. So, when Miss B answered yes to this question, I think the 
answer she gave was incorrect. Because of this, I think this is a qualifying mis-
representation. 
I want to be clear this doesnt mean I think Miss B answered the question incorrectly 
intentionally, because I dont think she did. But what I do have to consider is whether I think 
Miss B took reasonable care when answering this question. And after reading the statement 
of fact, where Miss B has a responsibility to ensure the information listed is correct, I think 
she should have taken steps to ensure she was the registered keeper. I think this because 
she was aware the finance was paid for by her father. So, she was aware her father bought the car and gifted it to her. I think it wouldve been reasonable to ensure shed been placed 
as the registered keeper at this point. And I cant see that she did.
As I think the answer Miss B provided is a qualifying mis-representation, I then must 
consider whether I think its likely ERS wouldnt have provided the policy if the answer had 
been correct.
Ive seen ERSs underwriting criteria which shows that they wouldnt have offered Miss B a 
policy if theyd been made aware that she was neither the owner or registered keeper of the 
car. I understand Miss B is unhappy shes been unable to see this document, but 
underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive and because of this ERS have no obligation to 
make this information available to Miss B. But I want to re-assure her Ive assessed this 
document at length, and I think it makes it clear that the policy wouldnt have been offered.
Ive then considered what ERS were allowed to do under CIDRA after deciding there was a 
qualifying mis-representation. In this situation, as I dont think Miss B intentionally mis-led 
ERS, I think this classifies as a careless mis-representation rather than deliberate or 
reckless.
And under CIDRA, where there has been a careless mis-representation, an insurer is 
entitled to void the policy and refuse all claims made on it. Ive also seen the terms and 
conditions of the policy Miss B held, which explain If you have failed to give us complete 
and accurate information, this could lead to us changing the terms of your policy, refusing 
your claim or the insurance not being valid. If the above requirements are not met, we may 
reject or reduce your claim, and / or cancel your policy or declare your policy null and void.
Because of this, I think ERS acted within the terms and conditions of the policy and under 
the rules set out by CIDRA when declining the claim and voiding the policy. So, Im unable to 
say theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably. And because of this, I wont be asking them to do 
anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss B was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt help to 
address the financial situation she and her father find themselves in. I want to re-assure Miss 
B I considered this at length, and I do recognise why she feels unfairly treated as the 
mistake she made wasnt intentional. But I hope this decision goes some way to providing an 
explanation as to why the actions ERS took were fair and werent discriminatory to Miss B or 
the situation she found herself in.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about ERS Syndicate 
Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman