DRN-4423845
The complaint
Mr G complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a 
cryptocurrency scam.
Mr G is represented by solicitors in this complaint. 
What happened
Mr G says that in May 2023, he was tricked into sending money in connection to what he 
thought was an investment opportunity. But it turned out to be a scam. Mr G explains that 
one of his friends started posting a lot about making good returns from investing on their 
social media, which got him interested in the opportunity as well. He says he didnt know at 
the time that his friends social media account had been hacked. 
Mr G reached out to the broker his friend had seemingly been posting about and was 
encouraged to open an account with Revolut to make deposits into his investment account. 
For some of the deposits, Mr G used his Revolut account to exchange funds (fiat currency) 
into cryptocurrency, which he then withdrew and sent on to his investment account. He also 
used his Revolut account to send money to a cryptocurrency exchange, where the funds 
were converted into cryptocurrency before being sent on. 
Mr G realised hed been scammed after his requests to withdraw profits were repeatedly 
declined and when his friends social media posts started to change, and he learnt that the 
account had been hacked. He reported the matter to Revolut but it refused to refund any of 
the transactions. Unhappy with this, Mr G complained to Revolut that it didnt protect him 
from financial harm at the time he made the payments. The complaint was subsequently 
referred to our service. 
I issued a jurisdiction decision last month explaining that this service doesnt have the remit 
to consider Mr Gs complaint about the cryptocurrency payments which he sent directly from 
his Revolut account. But we can consider his complaint about the payments that were made 
in fiat currency to the cryptocurrency exchange for onward transfer. 
This decision solely relates to my consideration of the merits of Mr Gs complaint regarding 
the following fiat transactions from his Revolut account 
Date Type Payee Amount
25 May Faster payment Coinbase £1,970
26 May Faster payment Coinbase £3,940
26 May Credit Coinbase £3,940 (reversal)
26 May Faster payment Coinbase £3,940
27 May Credit Coinbase £3,940 (reversal)
27 May Faster payment Coinbase £3,940 (declined)
28 May Debit card Kraken £3,940
Total loss £5,910
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I realise that Mr G will be disappointed, but Ill 
explain why Ive reached that outcome.
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
when they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Mr G made the 
above payments using his security credentials, and so they are authorised. But in 
accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a payment service provider, 
including an electronic money institution like Revolut, should be on the look-out for and 
protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If 
it fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert it to potential fraud or financial 
crime, it might be fair and reasonable to hold it liable for losses incurred by its customer as a 
result.
Revolut submits that the first transaction (see above table) did flag as suspicious on its fraud 
detection systems. It says it asked Mr G to select the purpose of the payment from a list of 
options and displayed a warning based on his response. Mr G selected investment as the 
payment purpose and weve been provided a screenshot of the relevant warning Revolut 
says it would have displayed at the time. The warnings states, Fraudsters could contact 
you, or you may see an advertisement online, offering you a fake  but often convincing  
investment opportunity to make easy money, and Legitimate investments will never 
guarantee profit and wont be arranged over social media. Investment companies will be 
registered with a regulator, such as the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the UK. 
Given the transaction amount in question and the fact that this was a newly opened account 
with an electronic money institution, who operate differently in a different regulatory 
framework and have different FCA permissions to those of a bank or a building society, Im 
satisfied that the intervention Revolut carried out in that instance was a proportionate 
response to the risk identified. One or more of the scenarios set out in the warning applied to 
Mr Gs situation. In the circumstances, I dont consider giving him the option to (1) get advice 
from one of its agents, (2) read its scam guidance, (3) cancel the payment, or (4) go ahead 
with it, was unfair or unreasonable.      
Revolut states that the next two transactions to the same payee, which were made the 
following day, were executed without further intervention. Given that the payments were 
going to a cryptocurrency exchange, I think Revolut ought to have provided a tailored 
warning like the one it provided at the time of the previous payment. But I dont think a 
similar intervention, which in my view would have been a proportionate response at these 
times as well, would have made a difference to Mr Gs decision-making seeing as he 
continued with the earlier payment despite the warning. So, I dont think a missed 
opportunity at these times would have led to a different outcome.
  
Looking at the account statement, it seems that the transactions were reversed by the 
beneficiary on both occasions. From the chat history, I can see Mr G provided Revolut a 
screenshot of the email which he received from the beneficiary at the time. It says his recent 
deposit had been declined due to a suspicious activity warning. Its unclear what triggered 
this warning, but the evidence Ive seen shows that Revolut released the funds as per Mr Gs 
instructions. So, Im not persuaded that the payments were rejected by Revolut as he 
claims. I also dont think Revolut ought to have been concerned by the reverted payments in 
the way the investigator has suggested. The issue appears to have arisen once the funds 
reached the beneficiary, which declined the deposit. When Mr G authorised a further transaction for the same amount the following day, it was 
declined. Mr Gs account was restricted while Revolut undertook a review of his account. 
During that time, Revolut didnt make any enquiries of Mr G. It did, however, inform him that 
the review could take up to two weeks. The review was completed within 24 hours and the 
restrictions were removed, and Mr G was once again able to make transactions from his 
account. It was then that he successfully made the final disputed transaction, a card 
payment for the same amount but to a different cryptocurrency exchange.
The investigators view was that Revolut ought to have questioned Mr G when it declined the 
payment and restricted his account, given there were multiple contributing factors. But I dont 
agree with that view. As Ive mentioned above, I dont consider the payment reversals 
warranted further investigation by Revolut. The evidence shows that it executed Mr Gs 
authorised instructions and didnt stop the payments. On the point of account opening 
purpose, one of the options Mr G selected was transfers. While he may have been sending 
the disputed payments for the purposes of investing, technically he was making transfers 
still. So, Im not persuaded by the investigators reasons for why they thought Revoluts 
investigations didnt go far enough.
Its true that the transaction was declined, and Mr Gs account was temporarily restricted. 
And I acknowledge his frustrations when he wasnt getting any answers from Revolut. But 
based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that the review it undertook  which led to the 
restrictions  was specifically about the transaction in question. In other words, I wouldnt 
have expected Revolut to have questioned Mr G about the payment or requested additional 
information in the way the investigator has suggested, given the nature and scope of its 
review. Once the review was complete, all the restrictions were removed.  
For the transaction that was declined, had Revolut not been undertaking a review, I would 
have only expected it to have provided Mr G a tailored warning much like it did at the time of 
the first disputed transaction. Much for the same reasons as Ive given for the earlier 
transactions, Im not convinced a warning would have positively impacted Mr Gs decision-
making.
The same goes for the last disputed transaction which Mr G made using his debit card. It 
was for the same amount and going to a cryptocurrency exchange. It isnt clear whether 
Revolut provided a tailored warning, but that is what I would have expected it to do in the 
circumstances. And I dont think it would have stopped Mr G from going ahead with the 
payment.
Ive also thought about Revoluts actions in relation to the recovery of payments after it 
became aware of the situation. In relation to the faster payment, given that Mr G transferred 
the cryptocurrency from his wallet with the cryptocurrency exchange on to the scammer, 
there wouldnt have been any funds left to recover. Nevertheless, I can see that Revolut 
contacted the beneficiary and requested a recall. But it didnt hear back. 
As for the debit card transaction, the only avenue here would have been a chargeback. 
Revolut could have only raised a chargeback against the merchant Mr G paid, i.e., the 
cryptocurrency exchange, not another firm i.e., the scammer. Given the merchant he paid 
had provided the service (conversion of money into cryptocurrency), its unlikely that a 
chargeback would have been successful. 
So, overall, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator. Im not persuaded 
that any failure on Revoluts part  in this case, the lack of tailored warnings on each 
occasion  is the proximate cause for Mr Gs loss. I fully acknowledge that hes lost a lot of money. But having considered the matter very carefully, for the reasons given, it wouldnt be 
fair of me to hold Revolut responsible for his loss.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman