DRN-3187738
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt handled his travel insurance policy 
properly.
What happened
Mr B has a packaged bank account with Barclays which includes travel insurance, 
underwritten by Aviva. But in 2018, Mr B tried to make a claim and found that Aviva didnt 
have his details. He was told his policy had been cancelled. 
Mr B complained to Barclays who explained there had been a system error but confirmed 
that he did still have the travel insurance and could submit a claim to Aviva for consideration. 
It offered to refund the fees Mr B paid between 2016 and 2018, a total of £403, and an 
additional £50 compensation. 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked Barclays to refund all fees paid, pay his insurance claim 
and £200 for alternative travel insurance he felt he needed to get. He also says Aviva still 
dont have his details and so he still isnt covered. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Barclays offer is fair. 
I should start by saying that any claims related complaints would be against Aviva. So if Mr B 
makes a claim and isnt happy with the claim decision, he would need to make a complaint 
to Aviva. I also asked our investigator to check whether Barclays had actioned the request to 
contact Aviva to amend its records. Barclays has confirmed that Avivas records have been 
updated. 
My decision is limited to what Barclays did when Mr B found out that his travel insurance 
policy wasnt properly set up. 
Barclays investigated the complaint and confirmed Mr B did have the travel insurance cover 
but due to a technical error, his details hadnt been recorded correctly on Avivas systems. 
Barclays also confirmed Aviva was willing to consider Mr Bs claim despite the technical 
error. And so Mr B didnt suffer a loss as a result of the error. 
Mr B has asked Barclays to pay £200 for alternative travel insurance he felt he had to take 
when he learnt of the error. As Mr B was still covered by the insurance during the time the 
system error occurred, I dont think its fair for Barclays to pay anything further. Barclays 
refunded just over £400 in fees, although Mr B was covered during that time. And it 
confirmed to Mr B that he did have the cover. So I dont think any further compensation 
would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer of a refund of fees 
amounting to £403 and £50 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman