DRN-3583868
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account and added a marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Barclays said it hadnt made a mistake. It had a received a report that a payment into the 
account of Mr S was fraudulently obtained. And it was required to report this to CIFAS.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Barclays has 
received a notification on 20 February 2017 that a £600 payment into Mr S account had 
been fraudulent. The majority of the funds had been withdrawn. Although Mr S said that he 
had sold a phone to a friend for £700 to £750 he didnt have any evidence for that. He said 
that his friend no longer lived in this country and he hasnt reported this to police. Barclays 
closed his account in line with the terms and conditions and had grounds to add the marker.
Mr S didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that Barclays has never 
explained why his account was closed or asked him for proof of funds. It was quite unfair to 
require him to prove this now. All Barclays had told him was that his account was under 
investigation. This marker is having a severe effect on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
Ive seen the report from another financial business about this payment which states that it 
has been fraudulently obtained. There is no evidence that Mr S was asked about this at the 
time as he says. I need to consider carefully whether that would have made a difference 
taking into account the time that has now passed.
Mr S says he sold a phone to a friend. The name of the person sending the money shown in 
the narrative on his bank account wasnt the same as the one hes given for that friend. And 
nor does the amount tie up to what hed said. He reasonably knew the money had been 
credited with that narrative because he withdrew £300 that same day. He says that there 
was limited if any documentation about this at the time. He doesnt refer to any dispute with 
that person at the time over the purchase. Or give any reason why the person would have 
claimed that this was fraud.
He was able to access part but not all of these funds and so on what he says he lost money. 
He didnt pursue this further at the time even when he was told his account would be closed. 
So, while I accept that it would be more difficult to prove things now I dont on balance find 
his version of what happened to be a plausible one. And so, I find it most likely that he was 
deliberately complicit in what happened.
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr S received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr S account of events, Im satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence 
for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this view, Ive taken into account the 
following reasons:
- Mr S received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Barclays at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr S had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I consider that Barclays was entitled to decide to close his account and it wouldnt have  
needed to give him a reason in its letter. I appreciate what he says about the impact of the 
marker, but I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Michael CreweOmbudsman