DRN-3936236
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is refusing to refund him the amount 
he lost as the result of a scam.
Mr F is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr F 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr F was searching the internet for an investment opportunity when he came 
across a business, I will call X. After considering other investment opportunities Mr F 
decided to complete the contact form on Xs website.
X contacted Mr F via WhatsApp and explained the process of setting up an account with it. X 
also explained the Mr F could make a lot of money if he invested.
Mr F opened an account with X and initially deposited a small amount. X then persuaded Mr 
F to deposit more funds to maximise his returns. Mr F realised he had fallen victim to a scam 
when X consistently requested more and more money from him.
Mr F made the following payments to X using his debit card via the legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange Moonpay:
1. 13 May 2021 - £3,871.20
2. 25 May 2021 - £110.67
3. 25 May 2021 - £270.95
4. 6 September 2021 - £119.35
5. 20 September 2021 - £56.69
Mr F has been unable to recover any of the funds he sent to X because of the scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Fs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr F 
disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr F made in relation to this 
scam to Moonpay.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr F was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr F didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(Moonpay). This is important because Barclays was only able to process chargeback claims 
against the merchant he paid (Moonpay), not another party (such as X).
The service provided by Moonpay would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Fs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Moonpay provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr F paid. As Moonpay provided 
the requested service to Mr F any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Mr F has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Moonpay, so the starting point 
here is that Mr F is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Barclays should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments Mr F was making.
All the payments Mr F made into the scam were for relatively low amounts to a legitimate 
business. The payments were also made over several months. So, I wouldnt have expected 
the payments to trigger Barclays fraud prevention systems.
Mr F has explained that one of the payments was for a larger amount (£3,871.20) and that 
he feels this should have caused Barclays to have concerns. But this payment was not 
significantly high, and it would not be reasonable for me to say Barclays has to stop all larger 
payments its customers make to legitimate businesses.
As I think it was reasonable that Barclays fraud prevention systems were not triggered by 
the payments Mr F was making, Barclays would not have been aware of the scam and did 
not miss an opportunity to prevent it. So, Barclays is not responsible for Mr Fs loss
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman