DRN-3027620
The complaint
Ms M complains about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A.s (Mapfre) settlement of her travel insurance claim and about its service.
What happened
Ms M had an annual travel insurance policy insured by Mapfre. She had been due to visit 
her parents abroad in January 2020 for a two week holiday but unfortunately on 
21 December 2019 Ms M was told her father had been diagnosed with cancer. She wanted 
to travel earlier to support her family during her fathers operation which had been scheduled 
for the end of December 2019.
On 21 December 2019 Ms M called Mapfre to ask whether the cost of the amendment to her 
flights would be covered. Ms M says Mapfre told her that because the alteration was due to 
a family members illness costs up to £5,000 would be covered. On 22 December 2019 
Ms M amended her flight dates which cost an additional £790.90 which she claimed for. 
In January 2020 Mapfre declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover Ms Ms 
circumstances. As a gesture of goodwill it could consider flight amendment costs if the 
policyholder had mitigated the loss but the amendment cost was more than Ms Ms original  
flight so it wouldnt make any payment.
Ms M complained to Mapfre and asked for the call recording which Mapfre said it couldnt 
find. It then found the call and referred to its content in its follow up decline letter in 
March 2020. Ms M complained further and chased Mapfre for a response several times. By 
June 2020 she hadnt received a substantive response and complained to us.
In July 2020 Mapfre issued its final response letter. It accepted it was unfair to decline the 
claim and paid Ms M the cost of the original booking flight (£659.97), less £60 excess, so 
£599.97. Mapfre said the problem with its service was caused by increased demands on its 
service due to Covid-19.
Ms M wants Mapfre to pay the additional £130 for the amendment cost, refund the £60 
excess and pay her an additional amount for her distress and inconvenience at its poor 
service.
Our investigator said Mapfre acted fairly in paying Ms M the cost of the original flight booking 
and in deducting the excess. She recommended Mapfre pay Ms M £75 compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience its poor service caused.
Ms M disagrees and want an ombudsmans decision. Mapfre didnt respond to our 
investigators recommendation or to our request to send the call recording.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im partly uphold the complaint as I think Mapfre fairly settled Ms Ms claim by paying the 
cost of the original flight but it should pay Ms M £75 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience due to its poor service. Ill explain why.
Its important to say that the policy doesnt cover Ms Ms circumstances. Mapfre paid the 
settlement on a goodwill basis as it would have paid the cost of the original flight if Ms M had 
to cancel her original booking due to her fathers illness. Its also said that as a gesture of 
goodwill it would instead pay the flight amendment costs where that was the same or less 
than the cancellation costs.
So the settlement Mapfre paid Ms M was more than it had to pay under the policy terms and 
was fair and reasonable. 
Ms M says Mapfre should pay the higher amendment costs as it said it would in the 
December 2019 call. Mapfre hasnt sent us the call recording. But its records include a note 
of the call content.
The note says Mapfre asked Ms M if the rearrangement fee would be deducted from the 
cancellation refund or if it would apply separately. Ms M said she would obtain about a 70% 
refund from the airline due to the late cancellation. Mapfre said it could only cover the 
amendment fee, not a new flight cost, and that Ms M could claim for a second amendment  
fee if necessary but the expenses werent guaranteed so it didnt want to get Ms Ms hopes 
up.
I dont know if Ms M did get any refund for her cancelled ticket but Mapfre paid her the full 
amount of her original flight cost less the excess. Although Mapfre did say in the call it would 
pay the amendment fee it also said the expenses couldnt be guaranteed. It may well be that 
Mapfre assumed the cost of the amendment would be less than the cancellation cost but it 
didnt make that clear to Ms M.
However, I still think the settlement Mapfre paid was fair as it was over and above the cover 
through the policy terms. And Ms M paid the amendment fee even though she was told it 
couldnt guarantee the expenses would be covered, which is very understandable given it 
was such an important time for her to be with her family.
Under the policy terms theres a £60 excess payable for a cancellation claim and its fair for 
Mapfre to deduct that excess from the settlement.
Ms Ms detailed Mapfres poor service which caused her a lot of time and frustration chasing 
and providing information shed already provided. I accept Mapfre would have been 
experiencing unexpected and unprecedented demand on its service due to Covid-19 for 
some of the relevant time. But that doesnt explain all the poor service issues and Mapfres 
given no response as to why it shouldnt pay our investigators recommendation of £75 
compensation.
Putting things right
I think Mapfre should pay Ms M £75 compensation to acknowledge her distress and 
inconvenience its poor service caused.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to pay  Ms M £75 compensation for her distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman