DRN-2902235
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Zurich Insurance Plc (Zurich) unfairly declined her claim on her 
buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2020, Mrs R was preparing to replace her hall floor. But damage was found 
underneath the floorboards there. The plumber that investigated thought itd been caused by 
a leak from a pipe under the bath. So Mrs R submitted a claim to Zurich on her buildings 
insurance policy. 
Zurich appointed a surveyor to assess the cause of the damage. The surveyor found no 
ongoing leak. But Mrs R told the surveyor that the damage had been caused after an escape 
of water eight years before. This had been caused by a washing machine in the flat above 
leaking. Mrs R said that the claim submitted by the flat above had been covered by Zurich. 
She said that at that time Zurich had covered the costs of the damage and provided 
temporary accommodation. But she now felt that they also shouldve replaced the hall floor. 
She felt that not replacing this has led to the decay of the wood beneath the floorboards.
But Zurich didnt accept Mrs Rs claim. They said the damage related to an old claim from 
eight years ago. They also noted the policy had an exclusion for rot, which had been 
mentioned in the surveyors report.
Mrs R disagreed. She felt that her policy provided cover for damage caused by escape of 
water. She said that she couldnt have found the damage any earlier as there was no visible 
evidence of the damage until the hall floor was lifted. So she felt her claim should be 
accepted. She complained to Zurich. But when they didnt respond she brought her 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator asked Zurich to provide a final response, which they did in April 2021. In 
that response, Zurich said that theyd tried to find the claim reported eight years ago. Theyd 
approached the council to see if they held any record of it. But they didnt find anything. They 
noted that claims are only kept for up to seven years. So, they said they had no evidence 
that this damage was caused by a previous claim.
As no ongoing leak had been found, Zurich said there was no insured peril for the claim to 
fall under. But they said that they needed to establish the cause of the rot thatd been found. 
So they suggested getting a second opinion on the cause of damage. They paid Mrs R £200 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill as theyd not responded to her original request for a 
final decision in December 2020. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. He felt that there was no evidence that 
Zurich had reached the wrong decision to decline her claim.
Mrs R didnt agree. She felt that Zurich needed to prove the presence of wet or dry rot in 
order to be able to decline her claim. So her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I do understand why Mrs R is frustrated. Ive considered all her points about why her claim 
should be met by Zurich. But theres no evidence that the damage underneath the 
floorboards was caused by the leak from eight years ago. 
Im satisfied that Zurich have taken reasonable steps to locate details from the claim from 
eight years ago. But theyve not found anything. Mrs R has also been unable to provide 
evidence from that claim. So its not been possible to review the previous claim to check that 
Zurich did everything they shouldve. But its possible that the hall was investigated at the 
time of that claim, but that no repair was necessary. 
In the absence of any detailed information from the previous claim, I need to look at the two 
reports provided by the two surveyors who inspected the damage.
The initial inspection report turned down the claim on the basis that it related to damage from 
an old claim from eight years ago. That report mentioned that dry rot was present under the 
hall floor. The second inspection reached the same conclusion to decline the claim. But gave 
a different reason.  
The report covering the second inspection, dated 30 March 2021, claimed to have identified 
the cause of damage. The surveyor reported that: the cause of the issues experienced is 
attributable to failure of the bath seal in the bathroom. Seals perish and deteriorate over a 
period of time rather than fail suddenly. The surveyor went on to state that the claim should 
be declined as the damage was due to wear and tear. The policy doesnt cover damage 
through general wear and tear.
So both inspections suggested that no insured peril had taken place at the property. 
Based on the information in the reports, Im satisfied that the damage is such that a new 
claim would also be fairly declined. If we consider this to be a brand-new claim, there is no 
evidence of an insured peril. I acknowledge that Mrs R has told this service that she believes 
her claim should be covered under Insured Risk 7: "Loss or damage caused to the Buildings 
by...Escape of water from any...appliance". 
She acknowledges that there is an exclusion for "wet or dry rot" in that clause. But notes that 
Zurichs surveyor didnt say that there was wet or dry rot at the property. He only noted that 
the wood was "rotted". She feels that the surveyor said the claim wasnt covered because 
the damage is "historic". Not because of rot. But unfortunately I think this is a moot point. For 
her claim to be successful, Mrs R either needs to show that Zurich didnt do what they 
shouldve done eight years ago. Or needs to show that an insurable peril has taken place for 
a new claim.
Since shes been unable to do either of these things, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to ask Zurich to do anything else.
I understand how strongly Mrs R feels about her complaint. I acknowledge that shes 
provided a definition of wear and tear which can be covered under an insurance policy. 
And I can see that she feels that her case is very similar to a previous case that this service 
upheld. I dont have full details of that case. But, having looked at all the details of this case, 
Ive seen no evidence of an insured peril. So I cant ask Zurich to do anything more. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman