DRN-2161885
The complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of the property management company that I will refer to as S, that 
Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) dac unfairly declined its claim on its home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P is a director of the property management company S. S has a home insurance policy 
underwritten by Allied, that covers nine flats in a development. Mr P is also the owner of one 
of the flats. His property has a patio at the rear which backs onto a body of water. This is 
attached to a floating pontoon.
In May 2018 Mr P, on behalf of S, made a claim on the policy as he had noticed damage at 
his property. He said there was damage to the patio, boundary walls and the pontoon. 
Allied sent a contractor to inspect the damage. Following this visit Allied wrote to S to say 
that it was declining its claim. It said that eight policy exclusions or conditions applied. Six of 
these were exclusions under the subsidence cover in the policy. The other two were that an 
inspection condition in the policy hadnt been met and the claim hadnt been made soon 
enough after the damage had been identified. 
S didnt think this was fair. It queried why the subsidence cover applied as this hadnt been 
what it had made a claim under. And it said Mr P (as the home owner) had carried out 
investigative work before reporting the problem to it. So it was reported soon enough. It also 
said it had carried out regular property inspections. It made a complaint. 
Allied didnt uphold the complaint. It said it felt all eight exclusions applied so the claim 
wouldnt be covered. S wasnt happy with this and brought its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She considered all eight 
exclusions and thought most applied. She said as Allied are only required to prove one 
exclusion in order to decline a claim, that it had acted fairly. 
S didnt agree and asked for its complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Since then S has provided Allied with details of a further report it has instructed in relation to 
the damage. It said the report concluded that the damage hadnt been caused by 
subsidence but instead by lateral movement of the seawall. A copy of the report was 
requested but not provided. However as this didnt change the view of either Allied or our 
investigator, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made it is for the insured to prove there is an insured peril  an 
event that is covered under the policy. It is then for the insurer to either accept the claim or 
prove that a policy condition or exclusion applies. 
Allied has said that two policy conditions and six exclusions apply, which is why the claim 
has been declined. I need to consider if it has acted fairly by declining S claim. In order to 
decline the claim it would only need to prove that one of these apply. For this reason Ive not 
considered all the conditions and exclusions. As in order to say it acted fairly in declining the 
claim, I only need to be satisfied that one fairly applies. 
In this case the claim was considered under the subsidence peril. While S has said it doesnt 
believe this to be correct  it also hasnt suggested a different peril that is covered under the 
policy.  However, as there is a disagreement about the insured peril, I have first considered 
the conditions Allied has said apply to the claim. As these would apply regardless of which 
insured peril the claim was being made under. 
One of these conditions relates to when the claim was made. The relevant condition states 
as follows:
(1) On the happening of any event which could give rise to a claim or on receiving verbal or 
written notice of any claim the Insured shall
(a) as soon as reasonably possible give notice to the Insurers
(e) at his own expense and within  (iii) 30 days of any other Damage
interruption or interference with the Business or Injury or disease
supply full details of the claim in writing to the Insurers
So I can see that it is a condition of the policy that the insured should make Allied aware of a 
claim, or possible claim, as soon as they are aware of it, but certainly within 30 days. 
In this case Mr P is a director of S  the insured. Mr P is also the owner of the affected 
property. Mr P first noticed the problem in May 2017, as it was at this point he instructed 
further investigation into the matter. It wasnt until May 2018 that the insurer was  notified. So 
this is significantly longer than 30 days.  
Mr P has said that he wasnt aware there was an insurable issue until after the investigations 
had taken place, and this happened throughout 2017 and early 2018.
 
Mr P has provided two reports from the experts he instructed, one is from August 2017 and 
the other from November 2017. The report from August 2017 contains photos of the damage 
and it is clear there are a number of affected areas. The report contained a number of 
recommendations including further monitoring and investigation. And it concludes that 
repairs are required to the pontoon. 
It is important to note that the policy doesnt require the insured to be certain that there is an 
insured peril. Just that a claim could arise. And from this report I think Mr P could have 
reasonably realised that the damage could give rise to a claim. As the report confirms 
numerous areas of damage and recommends further investigation, including monitoring and 
a topographic survey.  
Mr P has pointed out that he was acting in his capacity as a homeowner when instructing the 
investigations. And it is S that is the insured, not him personally. Therefore he says he didnt 
formally make the insured (S) aware of the potential claim until 2018, shortly before the claim 
was made. I have considered this, but I dont think that is a fair interpretation. As Mr P is a director of S, 
I think its reasonable to say that when he was aware of the problem that S was also aware. 
Particularly as there is only one other director and Mr P would be, and has been, the person 
to bring a claim on behalf of S. And in his role as director, he should reasonably have been 
expected to be familiar with the insurance policy and conditions. So I dont think its 
reasonable to say that S wasnt aware of the damage when Mr P was. 
For these reasons I am satisfied that the policy condition has been fairly applied by Allied. I 
think S would have been aware there may have been a claim from August 2017. And this 
wasnt raised with the insurer until May 2018. 
As I am satisfied that the condition applies, it follows that I think Allied has acted fairly in 
declining S claim. So I wont ask it to do anything further.
As I only need to be satisfied that one condition or exclusion applies, I havent considered 
any of the other exclusions Allied has quoted.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman