DRN-2485017
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not do enough to help him recover the 
money he paid to a car garage for works, using his Monzo debit card. Mr B also feels Monzo 
caused delays when processing the chargeback dispute.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr B noticed a problem with a knocking sound within the car, and a problem 
with an oil pressure warning light, which had lit up on the dashboard. And so, the car was 
taken to a garage, to be repaired.
Mr B said he was told that these problems would be fixed  for a sum of £435.55. But, 
shortly after collecting the car following repair, Mr B said the knocking sound returned, and 
the warning light came back on. Because of this, Mr B told the garage the problems werent 
sorted as they should have been. But the garage told Mr B that it would cost him more 
money to have the problems remedied.
Mr B didnt feel this was fair. He said he had paid £435.55 for the garage to sort these 
problems, and the work hadnt been carried out as agreed. Mr B contacted his card issuer, 
Monzo, to highlight the problem. And Monzo raised a chargeback dispute under the 
Mastercard scheme rules, about the fact the service Mr B received from the garage was not 
as described. As part of the dispute, the garage was contacted about Mr Bs concerns.
The garage responded to the dispute raised. It felt the chargeback was unjustified. And it 
gave a statement of its version of events. As a summary, this said;
Mr Bs car had arrived at the garage because it had broken down and had failed to 
start, rather than just as a result of a knocking noise and warning light. 
Mr B had authorised it to complete one hour of diagnostic tests. And it had noted it 
couldnt start the car given a failure of the battery. Mr B said he would purchase a 
battery and bring it to the garage, for it to then fit. Which it did. But the car still didnt 
start. 
It could not look into the concerns about knocking and the warning light being on, as 
the car needed to be running before that was possible. 
It completed diagnostic tests as agreed with Mr B on the car and found a problem 
with the starter motor  and a fuse. 
It quoted for a replacement starter motor, and a new battery lead to get the car 
running. And said it was possible this was also causing the problem with the 
knocking too. Mr B agreed to this work being undertaken. 
The car then started, and a short road test was done, that didnt note any knocking, 
and there was no warning light coming up in the car. 
Therefore, the garage was satisfied it had done what was needed to  getting the car 
started and working again. And it said it had made clear to Mr B that it was possible, 
not certain, the same repairs would sort the problems issues with knocking and the 
warning light.
Mr B returned to the garage, and it did explain to him that further diagnostics would 
be needed given that the repairs completed didnt fix the knocking and the warning 
light  and explained the potential issues and their cost. Mr B authorised a further 
hour diagnostic work. But then asked the garage to stop any further work  as he 
was going to part exchange his car instead.
Following the above information provided by the garage, Monzo let Mr B know that the 
chargeback had been refuted by the garage and had been unsuccessful as a result. So, 
Monzo would not be pursuing the matter any further.        
                       
Mr B said this was unreasonable. He noted that Monzo had taken too long to deal with the 
chargeback. And that it had allowed the garage to respond to the dispute, after the 45-day 
deadline it had in which to reply. Mr B said the garage had provided its response after 49 
days.
Monzo responded to Mr Bs concerns. It said that it had no control over the time it took for 
the chargeback to be dealt with, because it didnt set those timescales, or have any influence 
over them. Instead, it was Mastercard who set these rules.
However, Monzo said when it initially raised the chargeback dispute it had not provided the 
relevant acquirer reference number that was needed. And this had caused some delays. It 
credited Mr Bs account with £40 to apologise for this.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, and so referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
acknowledged there was a delay in Monzo correctly submitting the chargeback dispute, 
which was actually submitted in July 2020. But she thought the £40 compensation provided 
was enough for this. Our investigator also noted that the response from the garage to the 
chargeback was correctly accepted  and this was done within the correct timescales.
Mr B disagreed. He reiterated his concerns that the £40 compensation was not sufficient for 
the delays he experienced. And Mr B highlighted that he hadnt been able to work whilst the 
chargeback was ongoing, because his occupation required use of the car. 
Because Mr B disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As above, Mr B is unhappy with the way Monzo dealt with a chargeback request on her 
behalf. Regarding the outcome of the chargeback, Mr B feels Monzo didnt act fairly, as it 
didnt secure a refund for the £435.55, he had paid to the garage to fix his car. Ive therefore 
needed to think about whether Monzo acted reasonably in not pursuing a refund any further 
than it did.Having thought carefully about this, Im satisfied Monzo did act fairly in explaining to Mr B 
the chargeback was unsuccessful, and not taking any further action in pursuing a refund.
Its important to explain that it isnt Monzo that makes the rules around chargeback disputes. 
Rather, the card scheme that provides the card does. So, in this case, that would be 
Mastercard. Monzo just needs to comply with the card scheme rules when it does raise a 
chargeback.
Its important to note isnt a consumer right for a chargeback to be raised. But, Monzo did 
raise a dispute. Given Mr B had explained he hadnt received the service he had been told 
he would from the garage, I think it was fair for Monzo to take the matter forward and raise 
the dispute, in line with the Mastercard scheme rules.
As above, a response was received from the garage, disputing the chargeback. Ive already 
explained in some detail what that statement said  so I wont repeat it here. But I have 
considered that evidence  alongside the evidence Mr B provided. That includes, but isnt 
limited to, the invoice for the work the garage carried out and the information from a second 
garage Mr B took the car too. As well as logs of Mr Bs conversation history with Monzo and 
the garage.
From looking at this information, I can see that the parties have contradictory stories on the 
matter. But it is clear the garage invoiced for work to the starter motor, battery lead and 
some bulbs to be fitted. I havent seen any evidence to show that work was not completed as 
described in the invoice, and in the statement given. Or that the garage did this without 
authorisation to do so. 
The second garage that looked at the car has noted there was a knocking noise to the car 
and that a new engine, or full engine rebuild was required. But this didnt confirm that the 
work the initial garage conducted was wrong, or unnecessary.
And the initial garage has provided a counter argument to Mr B, highlighting there were 
wider problems with the car that needed to be fixed first. And that Mr B was told it was 
possible the knocking and warning light would be fixed alongside the other work that needed 
to be done. But not certain.
This information was taken into account when the chargeback decision was made. It was 
decided there wasnt enough evidence Mr B didnt receive the service as it was described, to 
pursue the matter further. And based on the information gathered and discussed above, I 
think that was fair. There wasnt sufficient evidence the service provided wasnt as 
described. So, Im satisfied Mr Bs chargeback was handled fairly, and in line with the card 
scheme rules. And that Monzo didnt need to pursue the refund any further.
Monzo then just needed to tell Mr B the chargeback dispute had been unsuccessful. And 
neither party disputes that Monzo did do this. So, Im satisfied Mr B was told the chargeback 
was unsuccessful  and why.
Delays 
Mr B has raised concerns about the time Monzo took to deal with the chargeback request. 
So, Ive considered this element of Mr Bs complaint too.
Monzo acknowledges that it didnt raise the chargeback until July 2020, due to backlogs it 
had in this workload. Im satisfied this didnt affect Mr Bs ability for the chargeback to be 
considered, as this was still submitted in time, under the card scheme rules. But from reviewing the online chat history between Mr B and Monzo, I can see that a few 
days after Mr B raised his concerns about the payment to the garage in June 2020, Monzo 
did tell him the dispute had been correctly submitted to Mastercard. But this hadnt 
happened. The dispute being actually raised in July 2020 according to Monzo in ones of its 
responses to Mr B. So, I do think Mr B was provided with some mis-leading information 
about the progress of his dispute.
Monzo has also said that it provided the wrong acquirer reference number when it first raised 
the chargeback dispute, and it acknowledged this did cause some delays. I would have 
expected Monzo to provide the correct details in the first instance. 
Given the above, Ive thought about what Monzo needed to do to remedy the above 
problems Mr B experienced.
Monzo has already provided Mr B with £40 for the delays caused because of the wrong 
reference number. So, Ive thought about whether this was a reasonable compensation 
award. And I think it was. I say this because I think it recognises that some inconvenience 
was caused to Mr B by this delay  particularly as Mr B was chasing Monzo regularly for 
updates.
Mr B feels this compensation isnt sufficient for all of the problems he experienced. Mr B has 
said that the delays caused him further problems  because he was without a car and 
needed this to attend work. I can see how this would be very concerning for Mr B. But I dont 
think Monzo needs to compensate Mr B for this issue or pay anything further.
Mr B was told that a chargeback dispute should be processed within eight weeks and is 
often resolved within three months. So, it was always made clear that the chargeback could 
take time to resolve  and that a response wouldnt be provided within the short term. So, Mr 
B would have always needed to seek alternative arrangements in respect of his car. And, 
having a look at the information provided, I can see Mr B did explain via email, in June 2020 
that he would be selling his car, in order to purchase another.
And, there was never any guarantee that a chargeback dispute would result in a refund. So, 
it was always clear that Mr B may never receive a refund and need to either repair or replace 
the car another way, despite the delays that occurred.
Mr B has said that the garage was allowed 49 days to respond to the chargeback dispute, 
rather than 45 days the card scheme rules provide. And having looked at the card scheme 
rules I can see these note that garage would have 45 days to dispute the chargeback. But, 
the chargeback was submitted in July 2020, and the garage responded in August 2020. So, 
Im satisfied the garages response was made in time, and it was reasonable for this to be 
considered.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that the £40 compensation Monzo Bank Ltd has 
credited to Mr Bs account is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And so, I dont 
require Monzo Bank Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman