DRN-3618806
The complaint
Mrs S complains Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) gave her a loan 
which she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mrs S was advanced one instalment from Shelby in August 2021. She was advanced £500 
and she was contracted to make nine monthly repayments of £108.65. Mrs S has told 
Shelby she is having financial difficulties and is in arrears not just with this loan but with 
other priority bills. 
Following Mrs Ss complaint Shelby wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to uphold her 
complaint because it carried out proportionate checks which showed it Mrs S would be in a 
position to afford her loan repayments. 
Mrs S, unhappy with this response, referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he didnt uphold it. He said the information 
Shelby gathered from Mrs S (income, expenditure and a credit check) showed she was able 
to afford the loan and he couldnt see anything from the checks which may have indicated 
Mrs S was having (or likely having) financial difficulties. 
Shelby didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the proposed outcome. I can see from the file that there has been a 
number of emails between the adjudicator and Mrs S which have included sending her 
details of the checks that Shelby carried out. I have read all of these emails and Ive 
summarised her main points below;
Shelby appears to have different figures for what Mrs S declared and what it used 
when considering her income and expenditure. 
Shelby says a credit search was carried out  yet it ought to have seen that Mrs S 
had a default on a credit card which had been passed to a third-party debt collector 
who she pays £10 per month towards. 
The credit results provided by Shelby show different information to what Mrs S can 
see in her own credit report  such as having outstanding payday loans from other 
lenders. 
The information in the final response letter is different to the information the 
adjudicator sent to Mrs S in relation to an amount showing in defaulted accounts. 
Her credit file showed a number of accounts were in serious arrears. 
If the loan wasnt so bad why is the interest rate so high
The adjudicator responded to many of Mrs Ss concerns which she raised and which Ive 
summarised above. He said that even if Shelby took account of Mrs Ss actual monthly 
income as well as a payment for Mrs Ss husband than the loan wouldve still looked 
affordable. 
He also confirmed that the information obtained by Shelby as part of its credit checks may 
differ from what can be seen on Mrs Ss credit file which she was able to download. While it 
was aware of the default, in the adjudicators view that on its own wouldnt be enough to 
uphold the complaint. He also explained the interest charged was a commercial decision that 
wed not seek to alter. 
Finally, he reiterated, that as this was early in the lending relationship, he thought the checks 
carried out by Shelby were proportionate. Mrs S provided some additional comments 
including;
She had quite a few other loans outstanding at the time Shelby advanced her credit. 
She had a mortgage with payments of nearly £800 per month and if you add that 
together with her other outgoings it exceeds the amount Shelby recorded. 
She only borrowed from Shelby as she needed the money and no one else would 
lend to her. 
Mrs S has had other complaints about loans that were advanced around this time 
which were deemed by us to be unaffordable and she received a refund. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mrs S could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Shelbys checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Ss 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs S. These factors include:
Mrs S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs S.
Shelby was required to establish whether Mrs S could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs S was able to repay her 
loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ss complaint.
For this loan Mrs S declared she had a monthly income of £2,245 and she declared monthly 
outgoings of £927. This left, Mrs S with £1,318 of monthly disposable income to be able to 
afford the contractual repayments. 
However, as part of Shelbys checks it , where appropriate we have overlaid some data 
with figures provided as guidance from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) and your credit 
file
Having done that, it calculated Mrs Ss income was likely to be around £1,950 and her 
outgoings were increased to £1,186. Using these figures for its affordability assessment 
Shelby believed Mrs S had around £782 of disposable income to afford her repayments. 
Regardless of which income and expenditure information is considered  the amounts 
declared by Mrs S as part of her application or the figures used by Shelby following its 
further checks, I think it was reasonable for it to have believed that Mrs S would be able to 
afford the repayments of around £108 a month. 
Shelby has also said, it carried out a credit search and it has provided the Financial 
Ombudsman with the results that it received from the credit reference agency. It has 
provided both a summary of those results as well as the full data it received. 
It is worth saying that there was no requirement within the regulations at the time to have 
carried out a credit search let alone one to a specific standard. The data that Shelby 
received may also not be the same as the information Mrs S can see on her credit report 
which she has produced. There are a number of reasons for this, including but not limited to;
Delays in reporting information to the credit reference agencies by other credit 
providers. 
Not all lenders report to all the credit refence agencies  which can mean that a 
lender isnt aware of some or all adverse credit file data.
A lender may only request certain information from the credit reference agencies 
such as the number of defaults within the last 12 months rather than how many 
defaults are actually recorded on the credit file in total.  
But what Shelby couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to any concerning 
information that it may have seen. But it is entitled to rely on the information it received from 
the credit reference agency. 
Looking at either the full credit file data or the summary (which does reflect the information I 
can see in the full credit file data) provided by Shelby Im satisfied that while it was aware of 
some adverse information, it wasnt in my view sufficient for Shelby to either have decline 
the application or to have prompted it to have carried out further, more in-depth checks. Ive 
summarised below some of the key information Shelby was aware of:Outstanding debt (not including a mortgage) of around £13,600. 
No active or current evidence to suggest that within the last year Mrs S had used 
payday loans. 
No defaults recorded within the last 12 months
But the value of any defaulted accounts came to just under £7,000. 
One account was subject to a repayment plan. 
No evidence of any other insolvency such as a County Court Judgement. 
Overall, while Shelby knew that historically Mrs S must have significant financial difficulties 
given it was aware of an outstanding balance made up from defaulted account(s), I dont 
think, in this case it wouldve led to either further checks or it declining Mrs Ss credit 
application and Ive explained why below. 
There had been no defaults recorded within the last 12 months and there doesnt appear to 
have been any other delinquent markers recorded in that time either. There also, in my view, 
werent any other indications that Mrs S was having difficulties, for example there is no 
evidence of her taking lots of new credit or having any outstanding payday loans. 
The information that Shelby had from the credit reference agencies didnt suggest that Mrs S 
would likely have problems repaying her loan. I accept, that the information Shelby saw may 
not reflect exactly what Mrs S can see in her full, downloaded credit report and Ive 
explained the reasons why that may be the case above. 
I think this is especially true as it seem appears to have almost a year since any sort of 
negative payment marker on her credit file. I think Shelby wouldve most likely concluded 
that Mrs S had problems in the past but would likely be able to repay this loan without any 
problems. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Shelby to
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mrs S had provided.
Mrs S has sent us her bank statements and these do show she was borrowing from other 
high cost lenders and she was utilising her overdraft. But, given what she declared to Shelby 
and what it could see in her credit check results I dont think Shelby needed to have carried 
out further checks for example asking for her bank statements. 
This means it wouldnt have been aware of this information given the use of payday loans 
wasnt reflective in the credit report data it received.  At this point in the lending relationship I 
think it wouldve been disproportionate to the circumstances for Shelby to have reviewed her 
bank statements. 
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for
Shelby to have relied on the information Mrs S provided. This along with the income and
expenditure figures show she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments she 
was committed to making. So, like the adjudicator Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint about 
this loan.
Ive thought about the comments Mrs S has provided but they dont change my view of the 
case. 
Mrs S may have had other loans upheld around the time of this Shelby loan but a number of 
factors would have played a part in any decision to uphold. Including, but not limited to, the value of the loan, what the other lender found out about Mrs S and how many loans Mrs S 
had taken from that company. In this case, Im satisfied based on everything Ive seen that 
Shelby carried out a proportionate check before lending to her. 
Finally, its clear from the information Mrs S has provided the Financial Ombudsman as well 
as Shelby that she is in significant arrears with other priority debts and based on what Mrs S 
says is going to have difficulties repaying the balance owed to Shelby.  
It seems so far, that Shelby has said it applied a number of holds on the account and asked 
Mrs S to complete an income and expenditure form in order so it can understand her 
financial position. This is presumably as a starting point to understand what help and support 
Mrs S will require and to help set up an affordable repayment plan. This doesnt seem to be 
an unreasonable course of action for Shelby to have taken.   
However, I would encourage both parties to discuss the outstanding debt and I would remind 
Shelby of its continued obligation to treat Mrs S fairly and with forbearance when discussing 
a way forward.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman