DRN-3170172
The complaint
Mr K complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Portal Financial Services LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to Portal. 
What happened
Mr K approached Portal in 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I can see 
there were essentially two main occasions where he was provided with advice. 
The first was an initial fact-find and suitability report produced by Portal in late April 2016. 
The suitability report recommended he should transfer out of the OPS, take some tax-free 
cash and invest the rest because at that point Mr K had implied he didnt yet need an annual 
pension. However, after this recommendation was issued Mr K took a little time to consider 
what he wanted to do.
Following this, a second suitability report was issued a short time later by Portal, on 27 June 
2016. This time, the report recommended he should not transfer his pension at all but leave 
it where it was instead. Nevertheless, in the same report, Portal said that because Mr K was 
adamant he wanted to transfer out of his OPS, it would help him do this. It said it could treat 
him as an insistent client, a term used in the industry to describe a situation where a client 
goes against the advice of a professional financial adviser.
The information gathered by Portal about Mr K was broadly as follows:
Mr K was 55 at the time and married with a dependent child. He had some health 
conditions which required medication but was otherwise healthy.
He was employed full-time with an income of around £35,000 per year and with no 
disposable income left after expenditure. He had accumulated some debt, said to be 
around £46,000. He was in a debt management plan paying £250 per month. He 
appeared to have no other assets other than his pension. Mr K and his family were in 
rented accommodation and paying £1,000 per month.
Mr K had an OPS which had an overall cash equivalent transfer value of around 
£286,000 as a result of a 12-year career which had ended in redundancy in 2001.
In the light of recently changed rules - pension freedoms - Mr K had an aspiration as 
of late June 2016 to access his pension, although he said he didnt intend to actually 
stop working until the age of 65. 
Mr K told Portal he wanted to access his OPS to take the maximum tax-free cash 
available and have an annual pension with the remaining funds. He said he wanted 
to pay off the debts and buy items such as a car and take a holiday.
Portal went on to help facilitate the transfer out of Mr Ks OPS. It says this was on an 
insistent client basis.
Mr K says he was given unsuitable advice by Portal. The complaint has been referred to our 
Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we should uphold it. 
They thought Mr K would not have transferred out if Portal had given him suitable advice. 
Portal hasnt agreed with our investigator. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, 
its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
What was Portal required to do?
Portal says Mr K ultimately went against its advice of 27 June 2016. It says that he was 
advised in the suitability report of that date that he ought to stay inside the DB scheme, and 
it was Mr K himself that insisted he wanted to transfer out to access cash and be in receipt of 
an annual income from an annuity. It says this meant he became an insistent client. Ive 
therefore considered this point first.
There was limited guidance available specifically about insistent clients at the time of this 
advice, but nonetheless, the regulator placed important general obligations on firms like 
Portal. These included the overarching principles such as: Principle 1  Integrity; Principle 2 
- skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 - customers interests; Principle 9 - reasonable care. 
I have also taken account that the regulator has previously expressed concerns and 
expectations about how businesses should execute insistent client business in connection 
with defined benefit transfers. It did this in July 2014 when it published TR14/12 Enhanced 
transfer value pension transfers. In February 2016 it also published a guidance note on 
insistent clients where the following concerns were listed of these types of cases:
there was often an inadequate assessment of the other options that could meet the 
clients objectives
there seemed to be excessive numbers of insistent clients resulting from advice 
which wasnt sufficiently clear
the risks of the clients preferred course of action werent always clearly explained
some examples were found to be a 'papering exercise', for example, the adviser had 
processed the case on an insistent client basis but this didnt really reflect what had 
happened in practice
the client was advised not to transfer out of the DB scheme (although the client 
insisted) but then the adviser recommended a product that was not suitable I have considered all these things carefully in determining whether I think Portal did anything 
wrong. And Portal ought to have taken these things into account.
However, I should also point out that there is no rule to prevent advisers transacting 
business against their advice, if the client insists. So, I need to think here about whether 
enough was done by Portal to try and find alternative ways of meeting Mr Ks objectives. I 
have also considered whether the insistent client process in this case was merely, in the 
words of the regulator, a papering exercise.
Was Mr K an insistent client?
Everything Ive said above demonstrates that firms, like Portal, had a number of important 
responsibilities when providing advice. Despite what Mr K thought he wanted, I think his 
expectation in paying for regulated financial advice was that he would be clearly guided on 
the basis of his circumstances and means. The information ought to have been clear, fair 
and not misleading. In particular, it should be clear that the business has not recommended 
the transaction and the risks proposed by the client ought to have been pointed out.
I dont think Portal adequately did this. 
On first look, the suitability report of 27 June 2016 appeared to be cautioning against 
transferring out of Mr Ks DB scheme. However, it said Mr K had wanted to be treated as an 
insistent client. Our investigator pointed out that this appeared to be based on Mr K signing 
an insistent client form which Ive noted has a date stamp of 14 June 2016 on it. The 
investigator also pointed out the obvious flaws on this, notably that the first half of the form 
only involved him selecting two tick-boxes already pre-determined for him by Portal. Portal 
said the second half of the form showed Mr K had explained in his own handwriting more 
about why he wanted to transfer out. But Ive seen that this doesnt even appear to be from 
Mr K  its from an unconnected person and dated the year before. Im assuming this relates 
to a completely different case. I therefore dont think theres any evidence showing the idea 
to go against the advice came from Mr K; it was directly presented to him by Portal.
As for the suitability report, despite Portal saying its advice was against transferring out of 
the scheme, there was a clear underlying bias in the report in favour of actually transferring 
out anyway. Directly under the reports first recommendation it said Mr K had told Portal he 
wanted to transfer out and so Portal made another recommendation just a few lines down 
from the first. This second recommendation was directly at odds with the first; it said Mr K 
would be treated as an insistent client and that Portal would carry on with the transfer 
process. The report said, my recommendation is therefore that you transfer the pension 
summarised in the next section to [an] Enhanced Annuity. This recommendation went on to 
say that by accepting this Mr K would meet his stated objectives which were to release 25% 
tax-free cash and be able to have an income as a result of buying an annuity.
Overall, I think this report was unclear on what it was actually saying. And despite what 
Portal says, I think it was merely setting the scene for Mr K to transfer out anyway.
Mr K was then asked to sign a Declaration Form and return it to Portal. This contained a 
number of statements which I think were intended basically to indemnify Portal from any 
responsibility. 
So, Portals actions and inactions here fitted the regulators definition of a papering 
exercise. In my view, its advice as regards transferring out was indecisive. In April 2016 it 
had initially advised a course of action that would involve Mr K transferring out. In June 
2016, the recommendation fundamentally changed to not transferring out. And then in doing 
this, Portal immediately offered a very easy option to go ahead anyway  involving only 
minimal effort from Mr K - to transfer out.I dont believe the evidence is plausible that Mr K even was an insistent client. Mr K wasnt 
experienced in these matters and so was heavily influenced by his advisor to whom hed 
paid a considerable sum. Portal produced mainly templated forms and statements which 
failed to highlight the risks and issues of him giving up his pension, in a meaningful way. 
Given the flaws on the insistent client form I cant say if this was even from Mr K. And I also 
note, for example, that Portal asked Mr K to sign the Declaration Form Ive mentioned above 
at the same time as giving him the advice rather than after. This allowed no time for the risks 
associated with the course of action which Mr K apparently wanted, to be properly set out or 
explained in a way that was personal to him. Nor was he apparently given an opportunity to 
explain in his own words why hed like to ignore the recommendation to stay in his existing 
scheme. Of course, given his somewhat vulnerable financial situation, there may also have 
been an opportunity for Portal to explain to Mr K that there simply was no suitable course of 
action which would fulfil his objectives at that time. And if this was the case, this should have 
been pointed out clearly by the adviser.
Given that I dont think Mr K met the definition of an insistent client I went on to consider 
whether I thought this made a difference to the outcome of the complaint. In particular, Ive 
given a great deal of thought to whether transferring out could be said to be suitable.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. This means Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ks best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Financial comparisons 
Theres no real dispute in this case that Mr K could be losing out in the longer term by 
transferring out of his DB scheme. After all, Portal itself says its recommendation of 27 June 
2016 originally said he shouldnt be transferring out. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing discount rates on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses werent required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The suitability report of 27 June 2016 said the critical yield required to match Mr Ks benefits 
at age 65 was 10.3% if he took a full pension and 8.5% if he took tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension. The relevant discount rate was 4.1% per year for 9 years to retirement. For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. Ive noted Mr Ks aspiration 
was to access his pension much earlier, at the age of around 55.
So, I've taken all these things into account, along with the composition of assets in the 
discount rate. I have also considered what Portal said about Mr Ks attitude to risk being 
balanced. And there would be little point in Mr K giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 8.5%, I think he was highly likely to 
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with his realistic attitude to risk.For these reasons a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ks best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I saw conflicting statements about Mr Ks desire for pension flexibility and his needs going 
forward. But I accept that at the time his main objective was to access his pension early. 
Portal said in its initial suitability report that flexibility and control over his pension was 
something that Mr K would benefit from; this was not mentioned in the second suitability 
report. However, to be clear, I dont think theres any evidence Mr K ever wanted this type of 
flexibility or control. The fact that Mr K purchased an annuity reflects the fact that he had no 
intention of investing his pension.
He also had an income, as did Mrs K (part-time) and his debts were already within a 
structured plan. So, whilst obviously an attractive prospect for Mr K in some respects, 
accessing his pension needed to be considered very carefully in his circumstances and 
balanced against other aspects of his overall situation and longer-term retirement security. I 
dont think its clear that Mr K had a genuine need to transfer out of his DB scheme to access 
cash to the exclusion of everything else.
Mr K was only around 55 at the time of the advice, and based on both what Ive seen and 
been told by Portal, he didnt have concrete retirement plans. I think this just added to the 
fact that it was simply too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB 
scheme. 
Accordingly, I dont think it was suitable for Mr K to give up all the guaranteed benefits the 
DB scheme came with when he didnt really yet know what his needs in later life would be. I 
cant see evidence that he had such an urgent need for cash and a variable income at this 
point. Accessing the pension at 55 was therefore to the exclusion of other major priorities, 
especially when considering what hed have to forgo to get at it. I dont think Portal explained 
any of this to Mr K.
Death benefits
This issue was also originally cited by Portal as of importance to Mr K but it was poorly 
evidenced why. So, whilst I appreciate Mr K might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to another scheme just to access more flexible benefits, Mr K was 
already in a scheme with good death benefits, which Portal underplayed. As we know, Mr K 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would have been 
useful to his wife if Mr K predeceased her. I dont think Portal made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to him. 
Summary
I have set out in this decision why I dont think Mr K met the definition of an insistent client. I 
think there is substantial and verifiable evidence that this process was used by Portal simply 
to transact what Mr K had said he wanted to achieve  access to his pension early.
As a result of this finding, I went on to consider whether the transfer out was suitable. Portal 
facilitated the transfer and recommended a course of action which was not in Mr Ks best 
interests. As regards suitability, given Portal itself has said it advised against a transfer, it would be hard for it to argue that the transfer was in fact suitable. And I agree that it was not. 
The financial comparisons showed hed be worse off transferring and there was no coherent 
assessment of Mr Ks retirement needs. 
Mr Ks existing DB scheme contained a number of valuable guarantees and benefits which 
made transferring out something that needed a great deal of consideration. Portals job 
wasnt to simply transact what Mr K thought he wanted  it was required to understand his 
needs and provide him with advice. 
Finally, Ive gone on to think about whether, if Mr K had been given clear and persuasive 
reasons why transferring wasnt in his best interests, he would have followed advice to 
remain inside the DB scheme. My view is that I think he would. With his circumstances and 
lack of investment experience, Mr K went to Portal seeking advice, which he paid for. I think 
its more likely that he would have followed that advice had it been delivered with the skill, 
care and diligence required and shown to be in his interests.
Portal failed in its duty, so Im upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr K, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr K would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ks acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ks 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ks SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr K within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr K.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that 
Portal pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr K the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr K any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr K any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr K the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr K.
If Mr K accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt accept my decision. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr K can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr K may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman