DRN-1686145
The complaint
Mrs E complains that she didnt authorise Quickly Finance Limited to make a claim on her 
behalf for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). So, she complains that its now 
chasing her for a fee.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs E instructed Quickly Finance to conduct a free PPI check on her behalf. 
This service was to identify whether she had PPI with her lender. When the lender 
responded to say Mrs E had PPI, she said she approached the lender directly and made a 
claim. Around the same time Quickly Finance also approached the lender to make the claim.
Mrs Es PPI claim was successful and she received compensation. Quickly Finance invoiced 
her for its fee as it had submitted the claim on her behalf. Mrs E complained. She said she 
had only authorised a free PPI check and had told Quickly Finance that she didnt want it to 
submit a claim on her behalf. She also explained that she received requests from Quickly 
Finance to complete the forms to make a claim but she purposefully didnt return these to 
ensure she could make the claim herself.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She explained that there was no 
evidence that Mrs E wanted Quickly Finance to make a claim on her behalf. She said that 
the authority Mrs E signed was for a free PPI check, and was before she was told that there 
was any PPI. And that all of Quickly Finances letters suggest that it would need Mrs Es 
completed forms after this to make a claim. As she never sent these in, it wouldnt be fair for 
Quickly Finance to charge a fee.
Quickly Finance disagreed with the investigator. It said that the terms and conditions for the 
free PPI check state that if PPI is found, then a claim would be made. So it was entitled to 
charge the fee for the successful claim. As it didnt agree, it asked for an ombudsman to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that Mrs E wanted Quickly Finance to make a PPI claim on her behalf, and I 
dont think she authorised them to do so either. Ill explain why.
Mrs E completed an instruction for a free PPI check only. Ive looked at the screenshot from 
Quickly Finances website and it says the following:
There is no charge for the PPI check service. If PPI is discovered we can assist you for a 
fee of 24% including VAT or you can choose to claim is back yourself.
I think its clear that this was only ever intended to be a PPI check, and not authority to make 
a claim. And I think its reasonable for Mrs E to have thought that too. It was June 2019 that the PPI check was submitted, and it was July that the lender confirmed there was PPI. 
Quickly Finance hasnt provided me with any notes from this time, the notes its provided 
start in August 2019. The note from 6 August 2019 says:
The online PPI Questionnaire has not been completed by the client therefore a blank copy 
has been sent in the post. If this is not returned within 40 days the case will be cancelled.
I think its clear from this point that Quickly Finance didnt think it had authority from Mrs E, 
and that Mrs E hadnt sent it anything to suggest she wanted any of its services after the free 
PPI check. However, despite this, Quickly Finance sent a claim to Mrs Es lender on 26 
August. I cant see anything to suggest Mrs E ever completed the forms. And she was told in 
various ways from Quickly Finances communications that she would have to do so for the 
claim to be submitted. So I dont think that Mrs E authorised Quickly Finance to make the 
claims on her behalf, so it should waive the fee.
I have considered the terms and conditions on the letter of authority that Mrs E had to 
complete for the free PPI check. These do say, on page two, that once PPI is identified the 
free PPI check period ends and you authorise Quickly Finance to submit claims. But 
everything else  including the website, the subsequent letters sent and Quickly Finances 
own case notes suggest differently. And this authority was signed for a free PPI check, 
before Mrs E even knew she had paid for PPI. So I dont think it would be reasonable in 
these circumstances to say that Mrs E gave authorisation for Quickly Finance to submit her 
claim on her behalf. As such it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for it to charge a fee.
Mrs E says she called Quickly Finance to say she didnt want it to pursue a complaint on her 
behalf. This was in July and there are no notes from this date, but I think its likely that Mrs E 
did this. And as she specifically didnt return forms after being asked to for the claim to be 
submitted, I think it wouldve caused her a shock when she received an invoice. I also think 
that by submitting a claim without the forms it said it needed meant that Mrs E wouldve felt 
upset, especially as she continued to liaise directly with her lender. So I agree with our 
investigator that Quickly Finance should pay Mrs E £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Putting things right
To put things right Quickly Finance Limited must:
Waive the success fee for this claim and stop chasing Mrs E for it
Pay Mrs E £100 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Quickly Finance Limited must follow the instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman