DRN-3262785
The complaint
Ms S complains about PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA and their decision to record a 
marker on her credit file.
What happened
Ms S held a credit account with PayPal. In Ms S May 2021 statement, it explained a 
minimum payment of £83.81 was due on or before 8 June. Ms S had set up a direct debit on 
her PayPal account, which took the minimum payment from her current account on the due 
date.
But on 8 June, a third-party company, who Ill refer to as A, took a payment of £50 from Ms 
S current account erroneously. And this meant that Ms S current account has insufficient 
funds to make the minimum payment requested by PayPal. So, the transaction was 
reversed, and PayPal were notified of this on 15 June. PayPal e-mailed Ms S to make her 
aware the minimum payment hadnt been collected on the same day and asked her to make 
the minimum payment. But Ms S didnt make this payment until 1 July. So, PayPal recorded 
a missed payment marker on Ms S credit file for June. Ms S was unhappy about this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Ms S didnt think PayPal had acted fairly when applying the missed payment marker. She 
made PayPal aware the payment had been missed due to an error by A. So, as she didnt 
think it was a fault of her own, she wanted the missed payment marker to be removed. Ms S 
also wanted to be compensated for the impact this missed payment marker had, as her 
mortgage offer had been rescinded by her prospective mortgage lender, who Ill refer to as 
H.
PayPal didnt agree. They thought the payment marker had been applied to Ms S credit file 
fairly, as Ms S failed to make the minimum payment until 1 July. PayPal thought theyd made 
Ms S reasonably aware on 15 June that the minimum payment was needed. And as Ms S 
didnt pay this, or contact them to discuss this, they thought their decision to apply the 
missed payment marker on 30 June was reasonable. Ms S remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained PayPal had 
an obligation to accurately report the way Ms S managed her account to her credit file. And 
in this situation, although they recognised it was As error that led to the missed minimum 
payment initially, they thought Ms S was given a reasonable opportunity by PayPal to make 
the payment in their e-mails sent on 15 June. As our investigator had seen no evidence to 
show Ms S attempted to make the minimum payment, or speak to PayPal about this, until 1 
July, they thought PayPals decision to apply the marker was fair. And they didnt think 
PayPal were unreasonable when stating the marker wouldnt be removed. 
Ms S didnt agree. She didnt think the e-mails sent by PayPal made it reasonably clear she 
could prevent a marker being applied to her account by making the payment straight away. 
She thought the marker would already have been applied and so, this is why she didnt 
make the payment until the following month. Ms S also confirmed a letter from A confirming 
their mistake was sent to PayPal whod confirmed receipt of this so, she thought PayPal 
should consider this and their position regarding the removal of the marker. Ms S maintained 
her view that she missed her minimum payment through no fault of her own and so, didnt 
think it was fair for her credit file to be negatively impacted because of this. And she didnt 
think it was fair that this has lost her the opportunity to purchase her first home.
Ms S comments didnt change our investigators view. Ms S didnt agree with this and so, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms S. Its not in dispute that a 
missed payment marker was recorded on her credit file. And Ive seen a letter from H that 
confirms recent information reported to Ms S credit file had altered their ability to lend to her. 
So, I can understand why Ms S would assume it was this payment marker that led to her 
mortgage offer being rescinded.
Ive no doubt this wouldve been upsetting for Ms S. And I can understand why this would be 
made worse by the fact Ms S missed her original minimum payment set up via direct debit 
due to an error by A, as without this error Ms S wouldve had the funds in her account for the 
direct debit payment to be taken. So, I can understand why Ms S feels as though shes been 
unfairly treated and wants the payment marker removed to ensure her future ability to obtain 
credit isnt impacted.
But for me to say PayPal have done something wrong, Id need to see one of two things. 
Either, that they made a mistake when applying a missed payment marker to Ms S credit file 
as this didnt accurately reflect the way Ms S managed her account. Or, if I think this marker 
was an accurate reflection, that it was unfair for PayPal to do so. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
It's not in dispute that Ms S missed her minimum monthly payment due on 8 June. And Ms S 
has acknowledged this payment wasnt made until 1 July. So, no payment was received for 
the account in the month of June at all. Because of this, I cant say that PayPal have made a 
mistake when applying a missed payment marker for June, as this accurately reflects the 
way Ms S managed her account.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether PayPal acted fairly when 
applying this marker, considering the context of Ms S situation.
Its already been accepted by A that their decision to take a payment left Ms S with 
insufficient funds in her account to meet her minimum monthly payment to PayPal. And A 
have provided PayPal with a letter to confirm this, which Im satisfied PayPal have received. 
But PayPal have confirmed this doesnt change their opinion that the marker shouldnt be 
removed. So, Ive thought about whether I think this is fair.
Ive seen PayPal e-mailed Ms S on 15 June, after they were notified the direct debit 
transaction had been reversed due to Ms S having insufficient funds to complete it. PayPal feel these emails gave Ms S the chance to make a payment and prevent a marker being 
applied. But as she didnt do so, they thought their decision to apply a marker on 30 June 
was fair.
 Ms S doesnt dispute this e-mail was received but has said she didnt think it was made 
clear she could take any action to prevent a marker being placed. So, this is why she didnt 
do anything more. So, Ive thought about these e-mails and what they explained.
One of the emails sent on this day explained Missing payments can result in fees, higher 
interest or impact negatively on your credit score. And I think its reasonable for me to 
assume this is the statement that led Ms S to believe a marker was already going to be 
placed. But crucially, this statement says missing payments can result in these 
consequences. Not that it already had. So, if this situation, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Ms S to contact PayPal to understand if there was any way she could make a 
payment to avoid this.
And in another of the e-mails, it says Please make at least your minimum payment due 
now before explaining Made a payment already? Youre one step ahead of us, so please 
ignore this message. I think this makes it reasonably clear to Ms S PayPal were still 
expecting the minimum payment. And it only suggested taking no action if a payment had 
already been made, which Ms S has confirmed it hadnt. 
So, I wouldve expected Ms S to make a payment at this point or at least contact PayPal to 
understand what the best steps for her to take were. By this point, A had already refunded 
Ms S the amount theyd taken so I think its reasonable for me to assume Ms S had the 
funds available. But I cant see Ms S did so, instead deciding to wait until 1 July to make the 
payment that was due in June.
PayPal have confirmed the missed payment marker was recorded on 30 June. So, I think Ms 
S had 15 days from the date PayPal e-mailed her advising a payment was still due to make 
this and prevent her credit file being impacted. And I think it was Ms S own decision not to 
do so. So, I dont think I can say PayPal acted unfairly when applying the marker or deciding 
not to remove it. And because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms S was hoping for. And I recognise the missed 
payment marker impacted the mortgage Ms S was hoping to use to purchase a property. But 
for me to say PayPal should remove this marker, or compensate Ms S for the upset that 
caused, Id need to be satisfied the marker was incorrectly applied and doesnt accurately 
report the way Ms S managed her account. And unfortunately, I dont think thats the case 
her. 
But I am aware the purchase of Ms Ss intended property fell through about the seller pulled 
out. So, the mortgage offer made by H was no longer required. Ms S is therefore able to 
search for alternative mortgage offers and other lenders may assess the risk posed by the 
missed payment marker differently to H.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms S complaint about PayPal (Europe) Sarl 
et Cie SCA. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman