DRN-2098513
The complaint
Miss S complains that Evergreen Finance London Ltd (trading as Moneyboat) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020 that I summarise below.
Miss S was given a loan of £400 by Moneyboat in August 2019. The loan was due to be 
repaid in four monthly instalments. I understand the loan is still outstanding.
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Moneyboat needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that Moneyboat was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay her 
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Miss S applied for her loan with Moneyboat by making an online application. Moneyboat 
carried out some checks before it provided the loan. These checks included asking for 
details of Miss Ss income and expenditure and carrying out some credit checks. Moneyboat 
says it thinks the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend to Miss S were proportionate. 
It says that, as her credit report differed from some of the information she gave about her 
expenditure, it increased its assessment of her expenditure before calculating the level of 
disposable income available to repay any lending. 
I said that in some cases this may be a reasonable course of action to take. But I didnt think 
Moneyboats checks were proportionate on this occasion and I didnt think the lender did 
enough to check that the lending was sustainable for Miss S.
Miss Ss credit report shows that she had four other unsecured loans outstanding when she 
applied for her loan with Moneyboat. Three of these had been entered into within the 
previous four months. The report also showed that in addition to her unsecured loans, Miss 
S had twice taken an advance against her income in the month prior to applying for the loan 
with Moneyboat.
I accepted that some of the information about other loans were dated the month prior to 
Moneyboats lending. And at least one of those loans may or may not have been settled by 
the time Miss S applied to Moneyboat. But I thought all this should reasonably have caused 
some concerns for Moneyboat because it indicated that Miss S was having difficulties 
managing her money.
I appreciated that Moneyboat adjusted its assessment of Miss Ss expenditure based on 
what it found in the credit report. But as Id explained, Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Having seen the information in the credit 
report, I thought Moneyboat should reasonably have carried out more in depth checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss S could repay the loan sustainably. 
Miss S had provided us with evidence of several other short-term loans she had at the time. I 
thought its likely that with better checks Moneyboat would have discovered this information 
and it would have confirmed that Miss S was having problems managing her money. I think 
Moneyboat would reasonably have concluded that it was unlikely that she would be able to 
sustainably repay her loan.
So I didnt think Moneyboat was right to provide the loan to Miss S.
Miss S had also complained that Moneyboat should not have lent to her because she was 
suffering from a mental health condition which adversely affects her borrowing behaviour. 
She had provided us with documentary evidence about her condition, including a letter from 
her health authority explaining how this condition impacts on her behaviour, and evidence 
from her doctor. From what Id seen, I thought Miss S was suffering from this condition when 
she took the loan from Moneyboat. However, it does not appear to be something that she 
disclosed to the lender when she applied for the loan. So, I didnt think Moneyboat could 
reasonably have known that Miss S was a vulnerable consumer when it made its lending 
decision, as it did not appear to have been made aware that she was suffering from a severe 
mental health condition at the time.
I said I was intending to uphold Miss Ss complaint about the loan and Moneyboat needed to 
put things right. 
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. I havent received any 
further comments or evidence from either Miss S or Moneyboat, in response to my 
provisional decision. The deadline for any further responses has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I understand the loan is still outstanding. Moneyboat should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss S, bearing in mind its obligation to treat her with forbearance and 
due consideration. I would also reasonably expect Moneyboat, as a responsible lender, to 
also take into account what it now knows about this consumers poor mental health.
Moneyboat should:
A) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Miss S as though they had been repayments 
of the principal on the outstanding loan.
B) If this results in Miss S having made overpayments then Moneyboat should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled.
C) If an outstanding balance remains then Moneyboat should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with her. But Id remind Moneyboat of its obligation to 
treat Miss S fairly when discussing repaying the loan.
D) Remove any adverse information recorded about the loan from Miss Ss credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to deduct tax from this interest.   
Moneyboat should give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London 
Ltd trading as Moneyboat to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman