DRN-3175907
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
declined a claim they made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs T booked a holiday abroad - to a country Ill refer to as S - for them and their 
children in around January 2020. They were due to travel on 10 August 2020 to stay in a 
villa and return 11 days later. 
They had the benefit of a single trip premierplus travel insurance policy underwritten by 
Chaucer (the policy). The dates of cover coincided with the dates of their intended holiday 
in August 2020. 
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential international travel due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic (the FCO advice). 
That included travel to S.
A few months later the FCO announced exemptions to the FCO advice in respect of travel to 
certain countries, known as travel corridors. A travel corridor was put in place between the 
UK and S. 
However, from 26 July 2020, the FCO warned against non-essential travel to S. That advice 
remained in place on the date on which Mr and Mrs T cancelled their villa abroad on 8 
August 2020 and when they were due to travel, two days later.
At the date on which they cancelled the villa, Mr and Mrs T also say their daughter had 
tested positive for Covid-19 a few days before and was required to self-isolate. 
Mr and Mrs T made a claim on the policy for their pre-paid costs including the costs of the 
villa and their familys flights. On their claim form they listed the cancellation reasons as 
Covid-19 and following government advice not to travel.
Chaucer declined the claim on the basis that the cancellation section of the policy doesnt list 
a pandemic, infectious disease or cancellation due to FCO advice as insured events. And 
although the policy does provide cover if the trip was cancelled due to the illness of any of 
the named persons on the policy schedule (of which Mr and Mrs Ts daughter was one), 
because Mr and Mrs Ts daughter was unable to provide a medical certificate from a doctor 
confirming her illness and why this prevented her from travelling, it didnt accept the claim.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T complained to our Service. Mr and Mrs T have said theyve been 
able to recover some of the villa costs from a third party. But as their flights did go ahead, 
theyve been unable to reclaim a refund from the airline. 
Our investigator ultimately recommended that Chaucer should reassess the claim outside of 
a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions. This was on the basis that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs T to be left in a position where they had no cover for 
cancelling the trip due to a change in FCO advice but to also have no cover if theyd gone 
ahead and travelled. 
Chaucer disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case in his view dated 12 
November 2021. The investigator also highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which 
are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page one it says:
This Insurance Product Information Document is only intended to provide a 
summary of the main coverage and exclusions, it does not replace the policy terms 
and conditions. Complete pre-contractual and contractual information on the product 
is provided in your policy documentation
Under the what is not insured? section (also on page 1) it says:
Travelling to a country or to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the FCO 
have advised against all (but essential) travel
Pages 11 and 12 of the policy sets out the general exclusions applying to the policy. It 
excludes on page 11 (clause 18): 
Any claim arising as a direct result of a situation highlighted by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office where you have travelled to a specific country or to an area 
where, prior to your trip commencing, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have 
advised against all (but essential) travel
Page 20 of the policy sets out the circumstances under which Chaucer provides cover for 
cancellation or curtailment charges. These are:
The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a) You
b) any person who you are travelling with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
You or any person who you are travelling with being quarantined on the orders of
a treating doctor, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service
attendance.
Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling with (which qualifies for
payment under current UK redundancy payment legislation, and at the time of
booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be maderedundant).
You or any person who you are travelling with, are a member of the Armed
Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or
employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave
cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the cancellation
or curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip, which occurred or
became apparent within 5 days prior to the commencement of your trip or during
the course of your trip.
The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home
due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm,
flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or
            theft.
Was it unreasonable for Chaucer to decline the claim? 
Chaucer has an obligation to consider claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline an insurance claim. 
In this particular case, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Chaucer to treat the claim 
as covered under the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy. Thats because:
Although the trip was cancelled due to a combination of factors including the FCO 
advising against all but essential travel to S and their daughter contracting Covid-19, 
I dont think they wouldve travelled to S as planned on 10 August 2020 because of 
the FCO changing its advice on 26 July 2020. And that was the main reason for 
cancelling the trip. Afterall, had they decided to travel against FCO advice, there 
wouldve been limited cover under the policy. Chaucer has also accepted in its 
response to our investigators view dated 16 November 2021 that: the reason the 
holiday was cancelled was the change in FCO advice at the time, as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic
I accept that under the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy having to 
cancel a trip abroad due to the outbreak of a pandemic or changes in FCO - or other 
government advice - arent listed as specific insured perils. However, considering the 
relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The FCO exclusion means that if Mr and Mrs T, and their children, had travelled 
abroad theyd have not followed FCO advice. So, as Ive stated above, cover under 
the policy wouldve been limited. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCO guidance which led to the cancellation of a trip also isnt covered by 
the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs T in this case.   
The IPID is designed to make sure customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. I dont think it was made prominent in the 
IPID that cancellation claims due to FCO advice against all but essential travel to a 
particular destination isnt included in the What is not insured section of the IPID. 
The IPID only contains the general exclusion that policyholders wont be covered if 
they travel against FCO advice. 
Mr and Mrs T wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions and cross reference different sections of the policy  in conjunction with the IPID - to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. So, I dont think this 
information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. Im 
satisfied the combined effect of the policy terms and IPID means it wasnt made 
reasonably clear or obvious to a reasonable policyholder that theyd have no cover 
under the policy if they travelled against FCO advice. But there would also be no 
cover in place if their travel plans were cancelled on the basis of FCO advice 
changing in between buying the policy and their intended departure date, as is what 
happened here.
The section of the policy explaining what will be covered if they had to cancel the 
holiday, on page 20, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented in the 
same place or specifically mentioned in the cancellation exclusions  although the 
general exclusions are referred to. But the general exclusions are earlier in the policy 
document at pages 11 and 12. And the consumer would need to cross refer these 
sections of the policy to comprehend how these terms all interrelated to one another, 
and to understand the effect of the FCO exclusion. 
I agree with our investigator that this created a significant imbalance in the rights and 
interests of Mr and Mrs T and Chaucer which is unfair in this case. I think its unlikely 
that Mr and Mrs T wouldve bought the policy had they realised that there was no 
cover under the policy if the FCO guidance changed after theyd bought it and 
needed to cancel their trip because of this. 
I accept that its not practical for the terms and conditions of a policy  or an IPID  to list 
every possible insured peril and/or every possible exclusion. Ive also considered that its 
common for the cancellation and curtailment section of travel insurance policies to list the 
specific insured perils that are covered. However, the issue Im considering in this case is 
whether it was clearly signposted to Mr and Mrs T that there would be limited cover under 
the policy if they travelled against FCO advice but theyd also not be covered if they had to 
cancel their trip because of FCO advice changing between taking out the policy and the 
intended dates of travel, based on the policy documentation. And, for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think it was. 
Ive taken into account Chaucers point that its for Mr and Mrs T to read the full terms of the 
policy. I note that the policy had a cooling off period and so Mr and Mrs T couldve cancelled 
within that period if they didnt think the policy met their needs. However, even if Mr and Mrs 
T did read the full terms, for the reasons set out above, I dont think it wouldve reasonably 
been clear to them that there was no cover under the policy if the FCO guidance changed 
after theyd bought it but before they departed for their trip. 
Chaucer has also said that if the complaint was upheld, it would be treating Mr and Mrs T 
more favourably than many other policyholders whose claims have been declined and 
complaints repudiated on the same basis. Its also said that there have been other occasions 
when our Service has agreed with the reasons for declining a claim for similar reasons to Mr 
and Mrs Ts claim. However, Ive considered the individual circumstances of this particular 
case against the terms and conditions of the policy Mr and Mrs T had the benefit of. 
Putting things right
Chaucer should treat Mr and Mrs Ts claim as covered under the cancellation and 
curtailment section of the policy. And Chaucer should assess the claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy  including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the 
policy, and any applicable excess.My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I direct Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity 
Company to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman