DRN-3846232
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the decision of ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft to 
decline their business interruption insurance claim made as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic.
What happened
The following is only intended as a summary of the key events. Additionally, whilst other 
parties have been involved in some of the communications, for the sake of simplicity I have 
referred only to ERGO, Mr and Mrs G, and their tenant.
Mr and Mrs G own property which is commercially rented to a third party, the tenant. The 
property is a public house, which is operated by the tenant. Mr and Mrs G held an insurance 
policy underwritten by ERGO. 
In March 2020, as a result of the government-imposed restriction, the tenant was no longer 
able to operate its business and did not pay rent to Mr and Mrs G. Mr and Mrs G contacted 
ERGO to claim for this loss of rental income. 
ERGO declined the claim however. It said that the policy was not a rent guarantee policy 
and that the tenant was still required to pay the rent, so there was no insured loss. Mr and 
Mrs G disagreed with this, bringing their complaint to the Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator issued ultimately came to the view that Mr and Mrs Gs business had been 
interrupted due to the restrictions preventing the tenant using the property. ERGO however 
disagreed with this and the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
Having considered the circumstances of the claim and complaint, I did not agree with the 
view reached by our Investigator. Essentially, I thought that the business that needed to be 
interrupted by an insured event was that of Mr and Mrs G. Their business was the renting 
out of the property, and that whilst their tenant had not been able to use the property as a 
pub during the lockdown period, the property was still being rented to the tenant. The 
tenancy agreement between the parties did not, in my view, allow for rent to be withheld as a 
result of the circumstances experienced. So I agreed with ERGO that there was no insured 
loss. Mr and Mrs G disagreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr and Mrs G, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy Mr and Mrs G held provided cover for loss of rental income:
Following an Insured Event under Section 1 and the Business carried on by You at 
the Premises stated in the Schedule being interrupted or interfered with
The Insured Events under Section 1 relate to situations where damage has been caused to 
the insured property and include events such as flood, fire, etc. Whilst I appreciate the 
pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to 
property which has led to an interruption of Mr and Mrs Gs business.
The rental income section of the policy does provide further cover though. And this includes 
losses due to certain diseases manifesting in the premises or within 25 miles of them, which 
has led to an interruption of the insured business. It is not disputed that COVID-19 would be 
a relevant disease or that this most likely manifested within 25 miles of the premises. There 
has been some dispute over whether this clause requires there to have been physical 
damage. However, the key issue for me is whether or not there has been an interruption to 
Mr and Mrs Gs business. 
Mr and Mrs Gs business is the renting out of their property. There was an agreement in 
place, the tenancy agreement, between Mr and Mrs G and the tenant. This set out how the 
property would be rented and when rent was payable. Where rent continued to be payable, I 
consider the business of renting out the property was not interrupted. 
The tenancy agreement included the following clause relating to the suspension of rent.
5.5 Suspension of the Rent
5.5.1 Events giving rise to suspension
If and whenever the Premises or any part of them are damaged or destroyed by one 
or more of the Insured Risks except one against which insurance may not ordinarily 
be arranged with a substantial and reputable insurer for properties such as the 
Premises unless the Landlord has in fact insured against that risk so that the 
Premises or any part of them are unfit for occupation or use, and payment of the 
insurance money is not wholly or partly refused because of any act or default of the 
Tenant or anyone at the Premises expressly or by implication with his authority then 
the provisions of clause 5.5.2 are to have effect.
5.5.2 Suspending the Rent
In the circumstances mentioned in clause 5.5.1 the Rent, or a fair proportion of it 
according to the nature and the extent of the damage sustained, is to cease to be 
payable until the Premises, or the affected part, have been rebuilt or reinstated so as 
to render the Premises, or the affected part, fit for occupation and use, or until the 
end of 3 years from the destruction or damage, whichever period is the shorter, the 
proportion of the Rent suspended and the period of the suspension to be determined 
by the Surveyor acting as an expert and not as an arbitrator
Mr and Mrs G have argued that a risk that had insured against had occurred, so clause 5.5.1 
came into effect. And that this would continue until the premises were fit for use. The risk 
that they have referred to is the manifestation of disease referred to above. 
However, the risk insured by the policy is the risk of such disease interrupting Mr and 
Mrs Gs business. This is a different risk to that of an interruption to the tenants business as 
a result of disease. 
Additionally, the tenancy agreement requires there to have been damage or destruction to 
the premises. As above, COVID-19 did not cause damage or destruction to property such as 
the premises. 
I do note that the policy also refers to damage when setting out the cover in relation to 
disease. And that there has been some discussion about whether physical damage is 
needed in relation to the policy. However, I need to bear in mind that a term needs to be considered, in part, in relation to the contract it appears in rather than another contract. So, a 
term in the policy might have a different meaning than a similar term in the tenancy 
agreement. As such, I dont consider it necessary for me to discuss how this aspect of the 
policy should be interpreted. 
It is necessary for me to consider whether a court would consider the tenancy agreement to 
require physical damage in relation to the suspension of rent clause. However, I am aided in 
this by several court judgments, including Commerz Real Investmentgesellschaft MBH v 
TFS Stores Ltd [2021] EWHC 863 (Ch) and Bank of New York Mellon (International) Ltd v 
Cine-UK Ltd [2022] EWCA Civ 1021. 
These judgments considered whether rent was due from businesses which were interrupted 
due to the pandemic. The courts found that the suspension of rent (rent cesser) clauses only 
applied where there was physical damage. And that the relevant insurance the landlords had 
only provided cover for loss of rent to the landlord where the tenant was not legally obliged 
to pay the rent, rather than where the tenant chose not to pay. Whilst these judgments were 
decided on their own facts, I am required to take into account relevant law and I consider 
that the same principles apply here.
From a practical point of view, it would make sense that a landlord need only to provide for 
rent to be suspended where there was an event within the control of the landlord to resolve. 
For example, if the property is damaged by a flood, it would be for the landlord to restore the 
property to an appropriate condition and until this is done it would not be appropriate for 
them to charge rent. It is for the landlord to provide the property in an appropriate material 
condition. However, where an event has taken place over which the landlord has no control 
and which did not impact the material condition of the property, such as the government-
imposed restrictions, it would not appear reasonable for a tenant to hold the landlord 
responsible for resolving this, and rent would remain payable. It would be for the tenant to 
take out their own insurance against such events happening.
Given the courts determined that terms such as that in the tenancy agreement Mr and Mrs G 
used required there to have been damage, and there was no damage in the circumstances 
of their claim, I am satisfied there was not an insured interruption to their business. Rent 
continued to be payable, so the business of renting the property was not interrupted. It 
follows that I dont consider ERGO acted inappropriately by declining the claim. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means ERGO should have met Mr and Mrs Gs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for them, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman