DRN-4249369
The complaint
Mr S has complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited didnt make 
him aware of his Open Market Option, or his possible eligibility for an enhanced annuity, 
when he took his annuity. Mr S claims that hes suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr S held a pension plan with The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal 
London). Mr S reached age 75 in September 2012.
On 28 March 2012 Royal London wrote to Mr S. In their letter Royal London told Mr S that 
the benefits from his pension plan were due at his 75th birthday. The letter went on to say: 
These benefits won't automatically pay you an income when you retire. You will need to buy 
a retirement income product, known as an annuity, that provides you with an income over a 
period of time. To make the most of the benefits from your policy, you should shop around 
for the best possible income.
Royal London didnt provide annuities themselves so had chosen another company to 
provide annuities on their behalf. In this letter I will refer to the annuity provider chosen by 
Royal London as Firm A.
Royal Londons letter of 28 March 2012 set out information for Mr S on how he could buy an 
annuity. Enclosed with the letter was a keyfacts about our services document which told  
Mr S that Royal London could only offer annuities from Firm A. Royal Londons keyfacts 
about our services document also said: You will not receive advice or a recommendation 
from us about the purchase of your annuity. You will need to make your own choice how to 
proceed. You must ensure that the product you select is suitable for your needs; if you are in 
any doubt and feel you require advice you should speak to a financial adviser.
  
Royal London wrote to Mr S again on 27 April 2012 and this time enclosed a Your 
Retirement Options booklet, which had been prepared by Firm A. This booklet contained 
information on how Mr S could buy an annuity and the annuity options open to Mr S. A 
further keyfacts about our services document was also enclosed together with various 
forms and a Guaranteed Pension Annuity Illustration, which set out details of the income 
that Mr S would receive if he took his annuity through Firm A. The income shown on the 
illustration was only guaranteed for a period of time, so the illustration also confirmed details 
of this.
Royal Londons letter of 27 April 2012 also said: Royal London no longer provides annuities
and therefore has chosen (Firm A) to provide annuities on its behalf. (Firm A) is a specialist 
annuity provider, paying annuities to more than one million people each year. However, you 
do not have to buy an annuity from (Firm A). The Open Market Option (OMO) is your right to 
compare the (Firm A) offer with that of other annuity providers. If you use the OMO you may 
get a higher income. This may not always be the case, but its worth shopping around before 
you buy.
Royal London wrote to Mr S again on 7 August 2012. This time they reminded Mr S that 
theyd recently written to him about taking his pension benefits. Enclosed with the letter was 
another Guaranteed Pension Annuity Illustration.
Royal London then wrote to Mr S again on 11 September 2012 and enclosed another 
Guaranteed Pension Annuity Illustration from Firm A, together with a Firm A booklet titled 
Income for life. On 29 September and 12 October 2012 Royal London wrote to Mr S again 
and with these letters enclosed another keyfacts about our services document, a Your 
Retirement Options booklet and another Guaranteed Pension Annuity Illustration.
On 29 October 2012 Mr S signed a Firm A Guaranteed Pension Annuity Quotation and 
returned this to Royal London. On the annuity quotation Mr S marked the annuity option that 
hed selected. This was to take a level monthly annuity, including a dependants annuity, tax 
free lump sum and a five-year guarantee period, with Firm A.  
In February 2023 Mr S, via a claims company, raised a complaint with Royal London. In the 
complaint Mr S claims company said that Royal London hadnt advised Mr S to review the 
whole of the annuity market to ensure that he was being offered the best annuity rate. Mr S 
claims company also said that when Mr S was age 75, he had lifestyle and health conditions. 
Royal London responded to Mr S complaint in March 2023. Royal London said that their 
letters of 29 September and 12 October 2012 had told Mr S that he didnt have to take an 
annuity with Firm A and had explained that an Open Market Option was available. Royal 
London said that their letters also said that an enhanced annuity may be available. Royal 
London didnt uphold Mr S complaint.
Mr S wasnt happy with Royal Londons response to his complaint, so he brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, again via his complaints company. One of 
our Investigators reviewed Mr S complaint. Their view was that Royal London had provided 
Mr S with all of the necessary information and didnt uphold Mr S complaint.
Mr S was not happy with the Investigators view. His claims company responded to our 
Investigator to say that the information provided to Mr S by Royal London didnt make it clear 
what an Open Market Option meant and didnt make it clear for a retail client that
by shopping around Mr S may receive an increased income. 
Mr S claims company also said that whilst Royal London had provided information about 
health status, this was not client specific and Royal London had not asked Mr S to complete 
a medical questionnaire. Mr S asked for his complaint to be brought to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Ive set out above, Royal London wrote to Mr S on 27 April 2012. In this letter Royal 
London said: 
Royal London no longer provides annuities and therefore has chosen (Firm A) to provide 
annuities on its behalf. Prudential is a specialist annuity provider, paying annuities to more 
than one million people each year. However, you do not have to buy an annuity from (Firm 
A). The Open Market Option (OMO) is your right to compare the (Firm A) offer with that of 
other annuity providers. If you use the OMO you may get a higher income. This may not 
always be the case, but its worth shopping around before you buy.
A financial adviser can help you select an annuity provider. Information on how to find a 
financial adviser can be found at the end of this letter. You can also use the online annuity 
planner available on the Pensions Advisory Services (TPAS) website, 
www.pensionadvisoryservice.org.uk. This free and independent service provides easy-to-
follow information on your options based on your own circumstances and requirements.
In this letter Royal London also set out a summary of options open to Mr S for buying his 
annuity. Option A and Option B set out details on buying an annuity through Firm A. The 
letter then said:
Option C: Open Market Option to buy an annuity from another provider
You don't have to use your Royal London pension fund to buy a (Firm A) annuity. You can 
use your pension fund to buy an annuity from another annuity provider.
Option D: Open Market Option to take a tax-free cash lump sum and to buy an annuity 
from another provider 
You can also take up to 25% of your pension fund as a tax-free cash lump sum and use the 
rest to buy a reduced annuity from another annuity provider.
The Open Market Option value is £14306.95. This value is not guaranteed, meaning that the 
Open Market Option value at your retirement date could be higher or lower.
The amount available to buy your annuity through another provider (the Open Market 
Option) represents the full value of your policy. We receive commission payments from (Firm 
A) for annuities purchased through our arrangement with them. We have quoted a higher 
fund amount for options A and B because we can enhance your fund by making some 
allowance for this commission.
The information on Option A, Option B, Option C and Option D was also set out in the 
letters that Royal London sent to Mr S on 28 March 2012, 7 August 2012, 11 September 
2012, 29 September 2012 and 12 October 2012.
I think that the information set out in Royal Londons letter of 27 April 2012 did make it clear 
that Mr S didnt have to take an annuity from Firm A and that he could instead take an Open 
Market Option and buy his annuity with a different annuity provider.
I also think that Royal London explained that taking an Open Market Option could result in 
Mr S being able to secure higher income. I think that Royal London also told Mr S that he
could seek help from a financial adviser, and information was set out at the end of the letter 
to help Mr S find a financial adviser, if he so wanted. 
Royal London had also suggested that Mr S use the Pensions Advisory Services (TPAS) 
website and gave him the website address for TPAS. Royal London also explained: This 
free and independent service provides easy-to-follow information on your options based on 
your own circumstances and requirements.I therefore think that Royal London explained to Mr S that he was able to take an Open 
Market Option, if he wanted, and also gave Mr S details on how to get further help and 
information on taking his annuity.
Mr S claims company has said that Royal London didnt make it clear what is meant by an 
Open Market Option and didnt make it clear for a retail client that by shopping around Mr S 
may receive an increased income. But I think that Royal London, in their letter of 27 April 
2012, did explain what an Open Market Option is. Royal London said that You don't have to 
use your Royal London pension fund to buy a (Firm A) annuity. You can use your pension 
fund to buy an annuity from another annuity provider. I think that this information is clear 
and straightforward.
Royal London also said: The Open Market Option (OMO) is your right to compare the (Firm 
A) offer with that of other annuity providers. If you use the OMO you may get a higher 
income. This may not always be the case, but its worth shopping around before you buy.
I think that this is telling Mr S that he might get more income through the Open Market 
Option. I also think that Royal London were telling Mr S that its worth shopping around. I 
therefore dont think that Mr S claims company is right when they say that Royal London 
didnt adequately explain to Mr S what the Open Market Option was or that he might get 
increased income if he bought his annuity from another annuity provider to Firm A.
As detailed above, Royal Londons keyfacts about our services document said: You will 
not receive advice or a recommendation from us about the purchase of your annuity. You 
will need to make your own choice how to proceed. You must ensure that the product you 
select is suitable for your needs; if you are in any doubt and feel you require advice you 
should speak to a financial adviser.
I think that this was clearly telling Mr S that Royal London would not give Mr S any advice 
about the purchase of his annuity, and that if Mr S did want to receive advice, then he should 
contact a financial adviser.  
Mr S claims company has also said that whilst Royal London provided Mr S with information 
about health status, this was not client specific and Royal London had not asked Mr S to 
complete a medical questionnaire. 
Royal Londons letter of 27 April 2012 said:
 
Do you have a recognised medical condition? Are you a smoker? If so, you can buy an 
annuity that pays more because of these factors. They are known as "enhanced" or 
"impaired" annuities.
This wording was also contained in Royal Londons letters to Mr S of 7 August 2012, 11 
September 2012, 29 September 2012 and 12 October 2012.
Enclosed with Royal Londons letter of 27 April 2012 was a Your Retirement Options 
booklet, which had been prepared by Firm A. Ive seen a copy of this booklet, which is dated 
2013. Royal London has said that the wording contained in this booklet is the same as was 
contained in the 2012 version of the booklet, which was sent to Mr S, aside from the date 
reference.Section one of the booklet is headed Your, or your loved ones, health. This section 
contains the following wording: Could you be entitled to a higher income due to poor health? 
Do you or your partner currently have (or have you ever had) a medical or lifestyle 
condition? If you have, you could be entitled to receive a higher income. If you want to 
provide an income for a loved one then you may receive a higher income if they have had a 
serious medical condition.
 
The section then goes on to say, in bold: Your particular pension policy means you 
dont qualify for an annuity quote from (Firm A) which takes your health or lifestyle 
into account. If you think you might be eligible for this type of quote, another provider 
may be able to offer you a higher level of income.
I think that this information, set out in Firm As Your Retirement Options booklet and sent to 
Mr S by Royal London, is telling Mr S that if he or his partner had a medical or lifestyle 
condition then he might secure a higher annuity income.
I also think that Mr S is being told that Firm A cannot provide an annuity quote which would 
take his health and lifestyle into account, but if Mr S thinks that he could be eligible for such 
an annuity quote, then he should contact another annuity provider to get an annuity quote 
which would take his health and lifestyle into account.
Mr S claims company has said that Royal London should have sent Mr S a health 
questionnaire to complete. Royal London has said that they didnt issue a health 
questionnaire because they were not able to offer annuity quotes which would take into 
account health or lifestyle. I think that as Royal London were unable to offer annuity quotes 
which took into account health or lifestyle, then its reasonable that they didnt issue a health 
questionnaire to Mr S. 
I therefore think that Royal London did adequately tell Mr S about his options on taking an 
Open Market Option. Royal London also told Mr S that they couldnt provide him with an 
annuity quote based on his health and lifestyle and told him how he could obtain such an 
annuity quote. Royal London also gave Mr S information on how he could get financial 
advice and how to access the Pensions Advisory Services (TPAS) website.
I am therefore not upholding Mr S complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint against The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman