DRN-2062850
The complaint
Mr J complains about unsuitable advice from Copia Wealth Management Ltd (Copia) in 
connection with transferring his personal pension to a Self Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP).
What happened
In 2016 Copia advised Mr J to transfer the value of his Scottish Widows (SW) pension fund 
to a SIPP.
Mr J complained that the advice was unsuitable. He said he was a low to medium risk 
investor with no investment experience, but his fund was invested in high risk investments. 
Some of those investments are now illiquid. Mr J says the SW fund was his main pension 
provision, and he didnt have capacity for significant losses.
Mr J also complained that the SIPP charges werent made clear, and that the amount hed 
paid had affected the fund value.
Copia didnt provide a full response to Mr Js complaint so he referred the matter to this 
service.
During the course of the complaint it has come to light that the SIPP administrators are in 
administration, and that one of the SIPP investments is now illiquid.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. Copia didnt respond to the 
investigators requests for evidence, so he reached his conclusions based on information 
provided by Mr J.
The investigator couldnt safely say that Copia had produced a suitability report for Mr J. He 
also concluded that the SIPPs charges were significantly higher than those Mr J was paying 
with SW. The investigator thought it was unlikely that Copia had made this clear to Mr J.
The investigator noted that the SW fund had achieved good returns in 2013 and 2014, but 
the SIPP fund Mr J transferred to was relatively new. So it wouldnt have been possible to 
make a reliable comparison about the performance of the two funds.
Based on what hed seen, and taking account of the increased costs, the investigator 
thought it was unlikely that Copias advice to transfer to a SIPP and discretionary fund was 
suitable. He said if Mr J had been properly advised it was unlikely he wouldve transferred 
from the SW fund.
So the investigator said Copia should put Mr J into the position he wouldve been in if hed 
remained in the SW fund.
Mr J said he agreed with the investigators conclusions, subject to understanding what the 
extent of any redress might be.
Copia didnt respond to the investigators conclusions, so the complaint was passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 21 July 2020, and Ive summarised my 
provisional findings below:
In 2016 Mr J was 48 years old, with an annual income of £20,000 and a repayment mortgage. Hed invested in the SW fund for almost thirty years, and had an intended 
retirement age of 65. 
Mr J had said the SW fund was his main pension provision, and that he didnt have 
capacity for significant losses. Hed also said that he was a low to medium risk 
investor. Having considered Mr Js circumstances at the time, I thought they 
supported what hed said about his attitude to risk.
Mr J was provided with a Personal pre-sales illustration in connection with the SIPP, 
although its not clear whether this was provided by Copia or the SIPP provider. The 
illustration set out details of the SIPP charges which were:
an annual management charge of 1% of the fund value;
a one-off advisers fee of £2,525.67;
an ongoing advisers fee of 0.5% of the fund value, paid annually;
a £75 transfer in fee.
But there was nothing in the illustration to show how the SIPP fees compared to the 
fees Mr J was paying in the SW fund. Given the length of time Mr J had invested in 
the SW fund, on balance I thought it was likely the SIPP charges were higher than 
those he was paying with SW.
Mr J was in his late forties and had a relatively modest sized pension fund. He had a 
modest income and Id seen nothing to suggest he intended to make sizeable 
contributions to the SIPP. So I thought keeping the charges to a minimum wouldve 
been important to him as they were likely to be paid from his existing fund. 
I thought it was likely that investment performance in the SIPP wouldve needed to be 
significantly better than in the SW fund to provide Mr J with any financial benefit. 
Otherwise, a combination of the transfer fee and ongoing increased fees would mean 
that Mr J would be worse off by transferring. 
Performance in the SW fund was good in the years before Mr J transferred. The fund 
into which the SIPP money was invested was relatively new, so it wouldnt have been 
possible for Copia to make an accurate comparison of performance between the two 
funds.
I accepted that the illustration showed that the value of Mr Js fund within the SIPP 
could decrease once charges and inflation were taken into account. But I couldnt be 
sure that Copia pointed that out to Mr J. And Id seen nothing to suggest that Copia 
provided Mr J with information so he could compare the SIPP fees with the SW fees.
From what Id seen, and in the absence of a full suitability assessment for Mr J, I 
thought the increased SIPP fees meant Copias advice to transfer from SW to the 
SIPP was unsuitable. And I thought that if Mr J had been properly advised, its 
unlikely he wouldve transferred out of the SW fund.
Mr J responded to say that he agreed with my provisional findings. Copia didnt respond to 
my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint and Copia should put things right.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr J should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. As Ive already said, if Mr J had been 
properly advised I think its likely he wouldve remained in the SW fund.
What should Copia do?
To compensate Mr J fairly, Copia must:
Compare, as at the date of this decision, the performance of Mr J's SIPP with that of 
the SW plan, had Mr J remained invested in that existing plan.
If there is a loss, Copia should pay into Mr J's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Copia is unable to pay the total amount into Mr J's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr J's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
In this case, Ive assumed that Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age. Mr J would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, and 
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. This equates to an 
overall notional deduction of 15%.
If, at the calculation date, any investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold 
on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the 
value of any illiquid investment should be assumed to be nil to arrive at the actual 
value of the SIPP. If possible, Copia should take ownership of the illiquid investment 
by paying a commercial value acceptable to the SIPP provider. This amount should 
be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above. If Copia is 
unable to purchase the investment, its value should be assumed to be nil for the
purpose of calculation. Copia may wish to require that Mr J provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Copia will also need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
Its also possible that, if illiquid investments are held within the SIPP, Mr J will be 
unable to close it and transfer his funds to a lower cost environment (should he so 
wish). Copia should also therefore pay to the SIPP, or to Mr J directly, an amount 
equal to five years SIPP fees. This should provide enough time for the SIPP to be  
wound up.
The amount of any redress should be paid to Mr Js pension plan, or directly to him if 
not possible, within 28 days of Copia being informed of Mr Js acceptance of the 
decision. Interest at 8% simple per year from date of decision to date of settlement 
will then apply up to the date of settlement.
Pay to Mr J £300 for the worry and inconvenience this matter has caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Copia deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. Copia should give Mr J a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Copia Wealth Management Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Copia Wealth Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr J in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman