DRN-2290341
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S are unhappy about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) proposed to settle a 
claim made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S noticed that a new dressing gown had transferred dye onto his cream leather sofa. He 
contacted the dressing gown retailer, which sent a company (Company A) to repair the 
sofa. When the company examined the sofa, it said that it wasnt possible to remove the 
stain without damaging the leather, so it couldnt be repaired.
So, Mr S and Mrs S made a claim under the accidental damage part of their home insurance 
policy. When UKI assessed the claim, it said that it would attempt to repair the damage and, 
if that failed, would then replace the sofa. It also outlined the options in a letter. It said that its 
supplier (Company B) thought the sofa could be restored. So its settlement options were 
that Mr S and Mrs S would either need to allow UKI to attempt restoration or it would pay a 
cash settlement of £950.40, which was what it would cost it to carry out the restoration.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to UKI. When UKI replied it said that it had appointed Company 
B to assess the damage and Company B was confident that another company (Company 
C) could repair the sofa. UKI said that it had checked with Company C that it carried out this 
type of repair and it had confirmed that it did. UKI accepted that there had been delays in 
dealing with the claim and so paid Mr S and Mrs S £100 in compensation.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said that UKI attempting a repair to the sofa before potentially replacing it was in line with its 
terms and conditions.
As Mr S and Mrs S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the policy terms and conditions to see what it said about how UKI settled claims. 
These said:
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether to:
 replace or repair the item or part
 pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have cost 
us to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
 make a cash payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own 
suppliers.
So, on that basis Im satisfied that UKI was entitled to choose how to settle the claim, which 
included carrying out a repair or replacing the item.
Ive thought about whether, in the specific circumstances of this case, it was reasonable for 
UKI to say it would attempt a repair before potentially replacing the sofa. Company A 
assessed the damage to the sofa by sending someone to Mr S and Mrs Ss home to try and 
carry out a repair. At that point, Company A decided that a repair couldnt be carried out.
Mr S and Mrs S provided UKI with a report written by Company A that said it wasnt possible 
to restore the sofa. However, UKI carried out an assessment of the damage based on 
photos supplied by Mr S and Mrs S and decided that a repair might be possible.
I can understand that Mr S and Mrs S think that it wont be possible to repair the sofa and 
are of the view that Company As in-person inspection was likely to be more accurate than 
an inspection based on photos. However, UKI is entitled to attempt a repair to the sofa, 
before potentially replacing it, in order to settle the claim. It is also my understanding that 
UKI offered to send someone to inspect the sofa and explain how it would be restored and 
the products that would be used, but that Mr S and Mrs S declined this offer.
I note that in UKIs written responses to Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint it said I can
assure you if the restoration of the sofa isnt successful, well pay to replace it. UKI also said 
If the restoration attempt is unsuccessful or compromises the appearance of the sofa in any 
way, a replacement will be arranged for you. So, I think that UKI has provided an assurance 
that the restoration would need to achieve a very high standard and if that standard isnt 
achieved, the sofa would be replaced. I think that is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im aware that Mr S and Mrs S are also concerned about the company that would carry out 
the repair and that UKI would decide whether the repair was successful. However, if the 
repair is carried out and Mr S and Mrs S are unhappy about the quality of the repair, they 
can raise a new complaint with UKI and potentially bring it to this service.
Mr S and Mrs S are also unhappy that the cash settlement offered is only for the cost to UKI 
for restoring the sofa. Given that I think it is reasonable for UKI to be able to attempt a repair, 
I also think its reasonable for it to offer that amount as the cash settlement. This, again, is 
because UKI is entitled to attempt a repair, which it thinks is likely to be successful, before 
looking at options to potentially replace the sofa and any related costs.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint. I think UKIs offer to settle 
the claim is reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman