DRN-3799194
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) has refused to refund him the 
money he lost as a result of falling victim to a scam.
Mr K is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr K 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr K had started to make investments when he came across a business called 
Z Cash (X). Mr K did some online research about Z Cash and could see it got mixed reviews 
and a rating of 3.5 out of 5.
Having discussed an investment with X Mr K started sending money to it via a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange. Mr K started with a test payment of £10 before sending much 
larger sums.
Mr K made the following payments to X via the cryptocurrency exchange:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
24 February 2021 Luno £10 Transfer
1 March 2021 Luno £13,500 Transfer
2 March 2021 Luno £16,000 Transfer
Mr K has been trying to recover his money ever since without success.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ks complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr K 
disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr K has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided
by both Mr K and Clydesdale sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether 
Clydesdale should refund the money Mr K lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr K made
At the time the scam took place Clydesdale was not signed up to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) so its not possible for Mr K to gain a refund of the money he 
lost through the CRM.
In any event the CRM does not cover payments that have been made to and from accounts 
in the same name as the customer.
As Mr K had moved his funds from his Luno account to X I am satisfied Clydesdale has no 
options available to it to recover the payments Mr K had sent.
Should Clydesdale have prevented the payments Mr K made? 
Mr K has accepted he authorised the payments he made from his account with Clydesdale, 
so the starting point here is that Mr K is responsible. However, banks and other Payment 
Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money 
laundering.
The question here is whether Clydesdale should have stepped in when Mr K was attempting 
to make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking 
place.
Before Mr K made the first payment to Luno on 24 February 2021 he had a telephone call 
with Clydesdale. Clydesdale has provided a recording of this conversation which I have 
listened to, to help me decide this complaint.
Clydesdale explained it was calling from the fraud department for a check on Mr Ks internet 
banking as payments had been flagged for a security check. 
Clydesdale told Mr K that he should get independent financial advice before investing and 
that he should check the FCA register as they see a lot of fraud and scams to 
cryptocurrency, and that they arent always able to get the funds returned. 
I have thought about the information given to Mr K in this call and I think it would have been 
reasonable for Mr K to have considered Clydesdales advice before proceeding with further 
payments. Clydesdale had made it clear that crypto payments are often fraud related and 
checks should be carried out before making any payments.
Despite the information Mr K received in the above call he continued to make the three 
payments into the scam. Mr K even called Clydesdale before making the payment on 1 
March 2021 to explain he was making a payment and he didnt want it to be stopped.
Considering the above its clear that despite the warning given to him by Clydesdale that the 
payments could be scam related, Mr K still wanted to proceed with them. I dont think 
repeating the same scam advice would have changed Mr Ks mind in making the payments 
and therefore I dont think Clydesdale missed an opportunity to prevent the scam from taking 
place. So, Clydesdale is not responsible for Mr Ks loss.
Mr K has told us he was vulnerable at the time the payments were made due to a health 
condition. But I havent seen enough to say Mr K was unable to make daily decisions. So, 
this doesnt change my decision.
I understand Clydesdale has refunded some of the money Mr K lost in relation to this scam. I 
think this is reasonable and I wont be asking Clydesdale to make any further payments to 
Mr K.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman