DRN-3775026
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt do enough to protect him 
from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the 
money once hed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr C was a victim of a scam involving cryptocurrency. He initially received a text message 
from a well-known company concerning an investment opportunity, which he deleted. Two 
days later, he received a phone call from a broker claiming to work for a company Ill refer to 
as M. The broker told him he could start off with a small deposit of £250 and that he would 
make at least a few thousand from the investment. 
The broker asked Mr C to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company who Ill refer to as B, and then load it onto his online wallet. He told Mr C hed 
been investing for years and that the investment would help him retire by December. He built 
a good rapport with Mr C and sounded professional, explaining everything in detail.  Mr C 
was sent a link to Anydesk and told to download Bs app. 
Between 7 May and 14 July 2021, Mr C attempted to make several payments to B. Of these 
payments, six were successful, including one payment via online transfer and five payments 
using his Halifax Visa debit card. The successful payments totalled £4,904.
On 6 May 2021, £250 was transferred to B from Mr Cs account. Later the same day, Halifax 
blocked a debit card payment to B for £240. Mr C contacted Halifax and told it he hadnt 
authorised the payment. He also said he hadnt authorised the first payment, but Halifax said 
there was no evidence the payment had been fraudulent.
Of the seven payments that Mr C tried to make to B after that date, three were blocked and 
five were successful. The broker kept him updated and would call him a few times a week. 
He also told him the more money he invested, the more money hed receive back from the 
investment.
When Mr C said he wanted to withdraw the full account balance, he was told hed need to 
pay a profit tax. He eventually realised hed been the victim of a scam and contacted 
Halifax, but it said it couldnt review the transactions as hed willingly made the payments. It 
said there was no money in the receiving bank and it couldnt recover the money via Visa's 
chargeback scheme as the payments had been made to a money transfer service that had 
fulfilled their requirements by receiving the funds and transferring them on.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and so, with the help of a representative, he complained to Halifax. 
Hes unhappy he didnt receive any warnings when he made the payments, and argued that 
without sufficient advice, he couldnt have known the risks. 
Halifax explained it had blocked a payment on 13 July 2021 and Mr C confirmed it was 
genuine, so it removed the block. It said it couldnt provide a refund as Mr C had willingly 
made the transactions. And it said the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code didnt 
apply it doesn't cover debit card payments. It said it had looked into recovering the payments 
via Visas chargeback scheme but it was unable to raise a chargeback request as the 
payments had been made to a money transfer service who had fulfilled their requirements by 
receiving the funds and then successfully transferring them on.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He explained he knew hed be 
out of work for a while so I thought an investment would be a good idea to keep himself on 
track financially. He said he trusted what he was told by Halifax, had done as much due 
diligence as possible and had felt reassured by the internet research hed conducted. Hes 
explained the scam caused him a lot of stress and he doesnt believe Halifax considered his 
vulnerabilities when assessing his claim. 
Halifax accepted there was no evidence it had provided any scam warnings to Mr C, but it 
said it would have expected him to make reasonable checks that the company was 
legitimate. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, noting that Mr C had answered 
questions incorrectly during the call with Halifax on 6 May 2021, for example, he said he 
hadnt authorised the payment and didnt recognise B. He also failed to disclose his 
relationship with M. Consequently, our investigator didnt think Halifaxs failure to identify Mr 
C had fallen victim to scammers represented a missed opportunity (on that or subsequent 
occasions) to intervene to prevent Mr Cs loss. 
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. His representative has 
said Mr C was under the spell of the scammer when he spoke to Halifax on 6 May and 
maintains that if Halifax had identified the disputed payments as unusual and suspicious 
(based on the fact hed never invested prior before and was sending high value payments in 
quick succession to new payees), it could have identified this was a scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr C has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why.
Im satisfied Mr C authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and Im persuaded the broker was operating as 
part of a scam. But, although Mr C didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Halifax is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
CRM Code
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr C says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax had said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the code doesnt cover debit card payments, and Im satisfied thats fair. The 
first payment was an online transfer, but the code wont apply to that payment because it 
was to an account in Mr Cs own name.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Halifax could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Halifax 
had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider 
scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr C when he tried 
to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Halifax to intervene with a view to protecting Mr C from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems and so it didnt contact him to 
give a scam warning. Ive considered the nature of the payments in the context of whether 
they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr C normally ran his account and I dont think 
they were. All the payments were to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange company and 
none of them were for particularly large amounts. So, I dont think HSBC missed an 
opportunity to intervene.
Mr C has said that, before making the first payment, he called Halifax to ask if he could trust 
M as he wanted reassurance that it would be safe to invest larger amounts. The advisor told 
him hed done a search on the company, he didnt have any reason to believe it was 
operating a scam, and to proceed with the investment if he was happy to. He wasnt advised 
to do any research, but he checked Trustpilot and saw positive reviews. Regrettably, theres 
no record of this call, but Mr Cs account is at odds with the evidence concerning the call on 
6th May 2021 when he told Halifax he hadnt authorised the payment of £240 to B. 
Ive considered whether Halifax should have provided a scam warning during the call on 6 
May 2021 and I dont think it needed to because the payment wasnt unusual or 
uncharacteristic of how Mr C normally ran his account and he didnt say anything during the 
call to alert Halifax to the possibility he was the victim of an investment scam. I accept 
a warning at this stage might have alerted Mr C to the possibility that M was operating a 
scam, but this was a block to check the payment was genuine and a scam warning wasnt 
necessary or appropriate, so I dont accept Halifax missed an opportunity to intervene on 6 
May.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Halifax could have done more to recover Mr Cs payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Halifax) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr C).
Mr Cs own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers to B. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received 
the disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been 
able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Cs 
payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Halifaxs decision 
not to raise a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies 
was fair.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr C has 
lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Halifax is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman