DRN-3450684
The complaint
Ms A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as NatWest) wont reimburse 
money she lost when she fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide a brief overview of the relevant events below. 
Ms A was contacted by a firm Ill refer to as A offering cryptocurrency investment 
opportunities. Between July 2019 and November 2019, Ms A made four transfers from her 
NatWest account totalling around £15,000 to her own wallet with a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange. These funds were used to purchase cryptocurrencywhich was then transferred 
to a trading platform with a firm called  V. Ms A says she was reassured of the legitimacy 
of the investment as she was able to successfully withdraw £50. 
Ms A says around June 2020 when she tried to make a further withdrawal, she was told a 
commission payment of £500 was needed before her investment could be released. So she 
made a debit card payment to another legitimate cryptocurrency exchange (with the 
purchased cryptocurrency being passed on). But Ms As investment was not returned.
In early 2021 Ms A says she received a further commission payment request for a sum of 
$12,000. She says she couldnt pay this, so an agreement was reached where she would 
pay £5,000 and receive some of her investment back. So in March 2021 she made three 
debit card payments totalling £5,000 to another cryptocurrency exchange to facilitate this. 
Again, no funds were returned. Eventually Ms A reported the matter to the cryptocurrency 
exchanges; the police; her home insurer (to see if she could get some assistance through 
her legal protection policy); and NatWest.  
NatWest declined Ms As claim. She complained it hadnt done enough to protect her. It 
maintained that it had tried to recover the funds but were informed none remain and couldnt 
reimburse the losses under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the Code) as the payments were not covered. In relation to the card payments it said as 
these were made to Ms As genuine wallet and then sent onto the scammers it couldnt 
reimburse these payments or do more to assist in the recovery of those funds. 
Ms A referred her complaint to our service. Our Investigator reached the conclusion that 
NatWest had acted fairly and didnt need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Ms A wasnt satisfied with the outcome and asked for an Ombudsman to reconsider her 
complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I'm sorry to hear Ms A has fallen victim to a scam. I appreciate the sum lost was her 
pension money, so I understand why she wants to do everything she can to try and recover 
as much as possible. But having reviewed everything both parties have provided Ive come 
to the same outcome as the Investigator. I know Ms A will be disappointed by this, as this 
isnt the answer she was hoping for, but Ill explain why. 
Firstly, as the disputed payments were made by Ms A using her security credentials, for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) these payments are considered 
authorised. Therefore, the starting position is that liability for these payments rests with 
Ms A, even though she was duped into making them. 
I think its important for me to start by explaining that simply because Ms A has fallen victim 
to a scam doesnt mean shes automatically entitled to a refund from NatWest. Here Id only 
be able to direct NatWest to pay the losses if Im persuaded that it made a mistake when 
processing the payments that resulted in a loss that otherwise wouldve been preventable or 
it has treated Ms A unfairly when assisting with the recovery of those funds. 
 
Of course, NatWest does have obligations to be alert to instances of fraud and scams and to 
act in its customers best interests. But there is clearly a balance to be struck between 
stopping and checking payments and allowing customers to freely use their accounts. With 
this in mind Ive considered whether the activity was unusual or suspicious enough to have 
warranted an intervention by NatWest.
 
Looking at Ms As account activity I think NatWest ought to have intervened in 2019 as the 
activity was not in line with Ms As previous spending. Id have expected NatWest to have 
asked her probing questions about the nature of the payments she was making and if 
appropriate to have provided Ms A with a warning about common scams.
Ive thought about whether this wouldve made a difference. And on balance, I dont think it 
wouldve done. Ultimately, I think Ms A wouldve gone ahead with the payments. I say this 
for the following reasons:
Ms A said that around that time she was able to withdraw funds and this reassured 
her that the investment was legitimate.
She had access to the trading account which showed the exact amount debited from 
her account being deposited  so she says she had no reason to suspect anything.
In 2019 the scam was in its infancy and there was nothing unusual at that time that 
wouldve given her concern.
Ive checked and there were also no regulator warnings about A or V at the time. So 
even if Ms A had carried out any research, I dont think it would have unearthed the 
scam. 
She was in regular communication with the scammers, so its likely that they 
wouldve provided her with reassurances.
The payments which followed were spread over several months and by this point the 
spending had normalised. Aside from the disputed payments Ms A had made because of the 
scam I can see she also made the following legitimate transactions: two card payments for 
around £2,600 each in October 2019; £1,000 card payment in January 2020; and over 
£1,100 card payment in March 2021. These were made to other cryptocurrency exchanges 
and forex firms. So I dont think the card payments made because of the scam in June 2020 
and March 2021 would have stood out to NatWest as they werent unusual or 
uncharacteristic for Ms As account.Ive also considered if NatWest couldve done more in assisting Ms A with trying to recover 
the funds shed lost. 
In terms of the transfers, as these were made to Ms As own legitimate cryptocurrency 
account before being sent to Vs trading platform, theres not much more NatWest couldve 
done to recover these. And in these circumstances, payments from Ms As own account to 
her own cryptocurrency account/wallet (which she was in control of) are not covered by 
the Code. So, I also cant say NatWest have acted unfairly by declining a refund under the 
Code.
 
The only option for a potential refund of the debit card payments was Visas chargeback 
scheme. But NatWest are bound by the card scheme providers rules. And I dont think it has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by reaching the conclusion that Ms As claims didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success under Visas chargeback scheme. As here Ms A had been 
tricked into sending money to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges  who wouldve fulfilled 
the services they were expected to provide by converting her funds to cryptocurrency and 
passing these on to the wallet address shed provided.  
 
Despite my natural sympathy for what has taken place, ultimately, it was the scammers that 
tricked Ms A. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant fairly hold NatWest liable for 
her loss. So it follows that I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman