DRN-2736657
The complaint
 Mr K, who is represented by his wife, Mrs K, complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
refused to let him reject a car which had been misrepresented. 
What happened
 Mr K says that he ordered a new car from a dealer I will call P which was funded by a fixed 
term loan. The car had no reversing camera and he says he asked if the one from his 
existing car could be put on the new one. Mr K says he took his old car to P in June to see if 
the camera could be removed from his old car, but it could not and he says he was told a 
manufacturers one could be fitted to the new car before delivery. 
He says P subsequently told him the manufacturer could not supply one, but it could source 
and fit a camera from a third-party supplier. Mr K collected the car on 21 July 2020 and he 
says at no point during the handover was he told the car didnt have a reversing camera. On 
the following day discovered there was no reversing camera.
He says that he was asked if he wanted to return the car and Mrs K took the car back that 
day returning the paperwork and keys. He emailed P on 2 August stating: I would confirm 
my verbal request to hand back the car xxx, as it did not meet the full specification we had 
requested. 
He says that Mrs K asked if they could order a higher specification model with a camera 
fitted and was told yes. She was told that this would take a month to arrive and they were 
provided with a courtesy car in the meantime. P sent an email om 13 August as follows: 
Just a quick update on the car arriving, it will be with us around the end of August in the 
meantime I have been jumping through hoops to look into getting a camera for your current 
new car and its now with a company that may be able to provide it but, I will have more 
information come Monday and I will give you an update, also your insurance is extended for 
the courtesy car. Mr P responded and said that as he had handed the car back he would 
wait for the upgraded car.
On 17 August the sales manager called to say P would not accept rejection and the 
upgraded replacement would cost an additional £4,900.
Santander and its solicitors have given a different history of events albeit there is much in 
common between the parties to this complaint. For the sake of brevity, I will record only 
those areas where Santander differs. 
It says that Mr K was willing to proceed on the basis that the camera from the old car would 
be transferred to the new one. However, if the camera couldnt be transferred Mr K was 
happy to proceed on the understanding P would supply a camera. It says this was confirmed 
by both the sales executive and the sales manager.
It says that after establishing that the camera couldnt be transferred it ordered a new one 
and at the time of collection this hadnt been fitted. It also says that Mr K was advised by two 
of its staff the new one wouldnt be fitted at the time he was due to collect the car. It says 
that at no time was it specified that the camera had to be one made by the manufacturer. 
It says that P never offered to accept rejection of the car. It says that the salesman to whom 
Mr K spoke didnt have the authority to accept rejection and it wasnt credible to conclude 
that P would accept rejection.
It said that at a meeting on 23 July with Mr and Mrs K P offered a free courtesy car until a 
reversing camera could be sourced and fitted. It said that Mrs K had asked that the car be 
rejected, but this had not been accepted by P. It said an alternative car could be found and 
exchanged subject to terms and conditions.
Santander says that in August 2020 it arranged for a specialist company to supply and fit a 
reversing camera at a cost of £672 which it paid as a gesture of goodwill. The car was 
available for collection or P offered to deliver it. 
Santander also says that the contract he entered into with it made no reference to the supply 
of a reversing camera and as such it met all of its contractual duties to him. It did not provide 
finance for a new camera.
Santander says Mrs K called it on 20 August and made a complaint. However, during that 
call she told Santander that the car had been ordered without a camera and confirmed that P 
had not misadvised her husband about there not being a camera. She did say that P had not 
told her husband that a third-party camera would be fitted. She said that the expectation was 
that the camera from the old car could be fitted.
She also said that a replacement model which had a camera had been ordered and this had 
yet to arrive. The courtesy car was returned to P on 24 August and the new car remained 
uncollected. 
After Santander rejected Mr Ks complaint he brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. Santander didnt 
agree and its legal advisers sent a detailed response which I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have spent some time considering this complaint and consider it to be a finely balanced 
matter. However, after due deliberation I consider the complaint should be upheld. I will 
explain why.
It is clear that there is a fundamental disagreement between Mr K and P as to what was said 
and what had been agreed. As such I have to rely on the limited documentary evidence to 
help me understand what was most likely said and what Mr K and his wife were led to 
expect. 
It is clear Mr K wanted a car with a reversing camera but wasnt inclined to purchase the 
more expensive version. He hoped that the one on his old car could be transferred to the 
new one. I believe it is clear that P explored this option before the purchase was completed 
and Mr K was aware that an alternative solution would have to be sought. 
The details of that solution are disputed. Mr K says that he agreed to a manufacturers 
camera being retrofitted. P suggests that this was only one option and that a third-party camera was also a possibility. It turns out the manufacturer doesnt provide a suitable 
camera and P arranged for one to be fitted by a third party. 
I think it likely that Mr P expected this to have been fitted by the time of collection. I have 
noted Ps assertion that Mr K was told no camera had been fitted. I can see that the invoice 
makes no reference to the camera and I have seen nothing from this period about the cost of 
this additional item.
On that matter I have noted Santanders legal advisers have suggested that the camera 
wasnt part of the contract and so it is absolved from any responsibility for it not being fitted. I 
dont agree. It is clear that Mr K wanted a camera fitted as part of the deal and the fact it 
wasnt include in the contract does not mean that there wasnt a mis-sale. Mr K was entitled 
to rely on what he was told by the dealer as to the options to be included.
Mr K called P the day after collection to ask about the camera. I believe it pretty clear that he 
had expected one to have been fitted. I think what happened next is key to this complaint. 
Santanders legal advisers have told this service that it was not within the salesmans power 
to sanction a rejection. That may be the case, but I consider that is not what he led Mr and 
Mrs K to believe.
The following email exchanges are pertinent. 
2 August 2020 From Ps salesman - I havent recived [stet] anything in email saying [Mr K] 
wants to hand the car back, he may have sent it and just got my email wrong
2 August 2020 From Mr K  Sorry for the delay, I would confirm my verbal request to hand 
back the car- [XXX], as it did not meet the full specification we had requested.
13 Aug 2020 From Ps salesman  Just a quick update on the car arriving, it will be with us 
around the end of August in the meantime i have been jumping through hoops to look into 
getting a camera for your current new car and its now with a company that may be able to 
provide it but, i will have more information come Monday and I will give you an update, also 
your insurance is extended for the courtesy car
13 August 2020 From Mr K  As we have given the original car back [XXX], we will wait on 
the upgrade vehicle with the camera already fitted.
These indicate the salesman knew Mr K wanted to reject the car and he had sourced an 
alternative model. He says nothing about rejection not being accepted. He does say that 
despite having ordered a replacement he is looking at fitting a camera to the car. 
However, Mr K makes it clear that he has already returned the car and I think it only 
reasonable to conclude that at this point and indeed earlier, Mr K is clear in his mind that he 
has rejected the car. I have seen nothing from P telling Mr K in writing or verbally that this is 
not the case. 
Put simply, Mr K said I reject this car since it doesnt have the camera I want and P didnt 
say we do not agree. It ordered another car. If it didnt accept the rejection I believe the onus 
was on P to make this clear to Mr K. It could have said in clear terms we do not think this a 
rejection matter and we will fit a camera as agreed. But I have seen nothing to show that this 
is what it did. It seems to have let Mr K understand that the car had been rejected and to 
have provided a courtesy car while a new one was sourced.
When it did let Mr K know that it was seeking an alternative solution by fitting a camera he 
responded and said, I have handed the car back or to put it another way he had rejected it. If it had made it clear that it had not accepted rejection then I may have reached a different 
conclusion.
I have noted the point made about the wording of the complaint brought to this service and 
the initial call made by Mrs K to Santander. It is not unusual for consumer not to be fully 
aware of the appropriate terminology of how best to express themselves when it comes to 
complaints which have an emotional dimension. Many do so under a deal of stress. It is 
clear that the complaint is that P effectively reneged on a rejection. Mrs K agreed with 
Santanders call handler that the car wasnt faulty, but what she was trying to say was that 
her husband had been misled and the car had been misdescribed which meant there had 
been a mis-sale. 
I would add that some consumers would have accepted the retrofitting of a third-party 
camera and that would have resolved the matter, but that doesnt mean that Mr K wasnt 
entitled to pursue rejection. 
Finally, I note that P mistakenly thought Mr K had entered into a hire purchase agreement 
and this only added to the overall confusion. Perhaps this is indicative of a lack of clarity 
shown by the dealer. 
In conclusion I have decided to uphold this case. 
Putting things right
 Mr K should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
to::
unwind the credit agreement with nothing further to pay,
remove any adverse information about the credit agreement from Mr Ks credit file,
reimburse all monthly payments paid towards the agreement  less any payments
where Mr K was supplied a courtesy vehicle, (I believe this to be one months 
payment) plus 8% annual simple interest, from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement,
refund the deposit payment paid, including 8% annual simple interest, from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement,
pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused Mr K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman