DRN-2263798
The complaint
Mr T complains The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) irresponsibly approved a 
hire purchase agreement for him that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In November 2013, Mr T acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from TCFC. 
The cash price of the car was £3,150, Mr T paid a deposit of £235 and the rest was financed 
by the hire purchase agreement. The total repayable was around £5,600 over 36 months. 
The monthly repayments were around £150. 
The agreement was settled early in June 2015, Mr T made a payment of around £2,000 to 
clear the outstanding balance. Mr T complained to TCFC in November 2019 to say that the 
agreement was unaffordable to him and it shouldnt have approved the finance. TCFC 
responded to say that it had carried out sufficient checks before lending. It said it carried out 
a credit check and reviewed a payslip and a bank statement which showed Mr T had enough 
disposable income to pay back the borrowing.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought TCFC had carried 
out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks and that the results of these showed 
the agreement was affordable. She didnt think TCFC had acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
TCFC agreed but Mr T didnt. He said TCFC never asked him about his income and 
expenditure before lending to him. He said the income and expenditure information TCFC 
had provided to our service wasnt signed by him and should therefore not be relied on 
because there is no proof he agreed those amounts were accurate. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guidance. 
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are: 
1. Did TCFC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way? 
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr T could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did TCFC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
If I think Mr T has been disadvantaged in any way by TCFCs actions, Ill go onto consider 
what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did TCFC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would be 
able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, TCFC were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Ts ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr T could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his specific 
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter, is the risk 
posed to TCFC as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as an 
assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to: 
 The amount of credit; 
 The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments; 
 The duration of the agreement; 
 The cost of the credit; and 
 The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
TCFC says it carried out a credit check, reviewed a copy of Mr Ts payslip as well as a bank 
statement and asked him about his employment, living circumstances and his expenditure. 
On the face of it, this would appear to be that TCFC carried out a thorough assessment of 
Mr Ts circumstances at the time. The payslip, bank statement and credit check would have 
allowed it to have verified any information Mr T gave them about his income and 
expenditure. 
Mr T says TCFC didnt complete an income and expenditure assessment and it hasnt 
proven that he provided or agreed to the figures TCFC says it relied on. Its not possible to 
say with certainty whether Mr T agreed to the income and expenditure information or not, but 
based on everything Ive seen I think its more likely than not that he did. 
I say this because the other information he provided on his application, about his living 
circumstances, his employment and his income details he hasnt disputed as being 
inaccurate. So, it seems Mr T did provide a lot of detail to TCFC or its agent at the point of 
application. Its clear from TCFCs notes that Mr T was asked to provide a bank statement 
and a payslip and TCFC have retained a copy of that payslip. Mr Ts bank statements dont 
show his rental payments which was declared on his expenditure documents, so I think this 
demonstrates its more likely Mr T did give TCFC the figures it used for his expenditure. 
The credit check TCFC completed only showed two active accounts. One was Mr Ts 
current account which was maintained well. The other was a payday loan which had 
defaulted over a year and a half earlier and had an outstanding balance of £363. Other credit 
facilities had been opened and settled with no payment issues prior to this application. There 
wasnt any indication from the credit check that Mr T was frequently taking out payday loans 
or indeed any other type of credit, or overly reliant on credit. I dont think the presence of this default on its own ought to have led TCFC not to lend to 
Mr T. It wasnt particularly recent, although there was still an outstanding balance to pay. 
I think it ought to have led TCFC to apply more scrutiny to the information it had gathered. 
Overall, I think TCFC gathered a sufficient amount of information and evidence of Mr Ts 
circumstances and I think the checks it completed were reasonable and proportionate. Ive 
therefore gone onto consider whether it made a fair lending decision based on what it could 
see. 
Did TCFC make a fair lending decision? 
TCFC hasnt provided a copy of the bank statement it says Mr T provided to it during the 
application. However, it has said what the exact income was recorded on that statement. As 
Mr Ts income subtly fluctuated month on month Ive been able to work out which statement 
it saw from the information Mr T has provided. 
Mr T says he was relying on payday lending at the time the finance was taken out and TCFC 
didnt properly take into consideration his expenditure. The bank statement TCFC appears to 
have seen prior to the application was Mr Ts August 2013 statement. This showed Mr T 
paid around £70 towards one payday loan at that time. However, it seems this payday loan 
did appear on TCFCs credit check and it showed as settled in August 2013, the month Mr T 
made the payment.
I dont therefore think Mr Ts bank statement would have revealed he was reliant on payday 
lending or that there was a historic problem of repeat borrowing. His credit file didnt show 
any other payday loans, except for the one which had defaulted over 18 months previously. 
Mr Ts income was verified with the bank statement and payslip which showed he earned on 
average around £1,066 each month. Mr T declared he lived at home with his parents at the 
time and hes confirmed to our service this was the case. His bank statements didnt show 
any rent/mortgage, utility or council tax payments which would support the circumstances 
hed declared. 
TCFC says Mr T declared his expenditure to be £150 monthly for rent/bills to his parents and 
£230 monthly to cover petrol and insurance for the car. After taking into account the monthly 
repayments for the hire purchase agreement this left Mr T with around £530 in disposable 
income. TCFC concluded this would be sufficient to meet any unexpected or emergency 
costs he might have as well as for other day to day expenses such as food and clothing. 
I dont think that was an unfair or unreasonable conclusion to reach.
I note TCFC didnt include payments Mr T would be required to make to clear the 
outstanding balance he had on his defaulted loan. But it seems even if it had taken into 
account a reasonable monthly repayment towards that debt that Mr T would still appear to 
be able to sustainably afford the hire purchase repayments. 
Overall, I dont think there was anything within the information that TCFC gathered that 
ought to have caused it to reasonably conclude that Mr T couldnt afford to repay the 
finance. Therefore, I dont think it acted unfairly in approving the credit agreement for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman