DRN-3755006
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader, trading as D. He complains about the way in which Lex Autolease Ltd 
(Lex) collected a van he had acquired from it under a hire agreement. He also complains 
that Lex didnt return his personal possessions that were in the van at the time it collected it.
For clarity, Ive only referred to Mr S throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr S acquired a van under a 60 month hire agreement with Lex in February 2019. Under the 
agreement, Mr S was required to make an initial payment of £600 followed by 59 rentals of 
£183.58.
In October 2021, Lex wrote to Mr S and told him that his agreement was in arrears and 
because he hadnt brought the account up to date, it had terminated his agreement and the 
van needed to be returned to it immediately. It said if Mr S didnt return the van, it would 
instruct its agents  who Ill refer to as B  to recover the van on its behalf.
B collected the van in January 2022. An appraisal report confirms there were no personal 
possessions in the van at the time of collection. 
In March 2022, Mr S complained to Lex. He said he was unhappy the van was repossessed 
with his personal items in it. He listed all these items and also said there was around £10 of 
small change in the van at the time it was collected. He said Lex should have given him a 
chance to remove his personal items from the van before collecting it. 
Lex issued its response to Mr Ss complaint. It said B had attempted to contact him 
unsuccessfully before they collected the van and B had confirmed the items Mr S said 
remained in the van, were not present. So it didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. He said his van had been 
incorrectly repossessed due to payment errors caused by Lex. Mr S said Lex didnt tell him it 
would be collecting the van and he had personal belongings valued at £50 inside the van 
which he couldnt remove. Mr S said to put things right, he wanted an apology, £50 
compensation for the value of his personal possessions  or instead he wanted these 
returned to him  and compensation for his time and the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Lex had acted unfairly. He said B 
had reported that there were no personal items in the van at the time B had collected it. He 
said that B had shown it had attempted to contact Mr S on the day of collection. And he said 
Mr S hadnt provided any supporting information to confirm that items were left in the van.
Mr S disagreed and provided a statement from his wife. The statement listed a number of 
things that she said were in the van on the day of collection and it said that both Mr S and 
his wife were home all day on the day of collection, but they didnt hear a knock on the door 
and didnt hear the doorbell ring. 
Our investigator contacted Lex and asked it whether it would be prepared to pay Mr S £50 
as a gesture of goodwill to settle his complaint. Lex confirmed it would be prepared to pay  
Mr S £50 without any admission of liability to settle his complaint. However, it said if Mr S 
declined this offer, it would be rescinded.
Mr S declined Lexs offer. He said Lex had caused him considerable distress, it didnt 
investigate the matter properly initially and failed to abide by its own standards. He said he 
disagreed with our investigators position and said he wanted Lex to pay him £50 
compensation for the distress caused to him and £50 in recompense for the items left in the 
van at the time it was collected.
Mr S remains unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. Mr S has 
disputed Lexs reasons for terminating the agreement. But, as Mr S hasnt complained about 
this to Lex previously, I wont consider this as part of my decision. Mr S should complain to 
Lex in the first instance if he remains unhappy about its reasons for terminating his 
agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S was supplied with a van under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr S has raised a number of 
points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. The rules of our service allow me to do 
this, but I want to assure the parties, if I dont mention every single point thats been raised, 
its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. However, Im going to concentrate here on what I consider is key to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome overall. 
What I need to decide in this case is whether Lex, or B on behalf of Lex, told Mr S it would 
be collecting the van from him and whether it unfairly disposed of the personal possessions 
Mr S says were in the van. If it did, Ill need to think about whats fair to put things right.
Im satisfied that Lex wrote to Mr S in October 2021 and told him it would be repossessing 
the van. Mr S has sent us a copy of this letter and Ive seen system notes which confirm the 
letter was sent to Mr S on the date it was generated and I can see that it was correctly 
addressed. So, Im satisfied Mr S received a copy of the letter at the time. In the letter, Lex 
told Mr S he needed to return the van immediately and if he didnt, it would instruct its agents 
to do this on its behalf. This letter should have reasonably put Mr S on notice that Lexs 
agent would be collecting the van from him, unless he cleared the arrears that Lex said he 
owed under the agreement, or if he returned the van to Lex. Lex instructed B to collect the 
van in November 2021. In early January 2022, B on behalf of Lex, collected the van from   
Mr S. 
There are conflicting statements from Mr S and B about what happened on the day the van 
was collected. Mr S complained about the van being repossessed in February 2022, which 
was around a month after the van was collected from him. He said because he didnt receive 
notice his van was being repossessed, he wanted his personal items returned. He said it 
was taken without his knowledge. Mr S says he didnt receive any calls from B or Lex on the 
day and B didnt knock on his door prior to collecting the van. Mr S has provided a signed 
statement from his wife which confirms his version of events. B say they attempted to 
contact Mr S and knocked on his door prior to retrieving the van.As both Mr S and B provided conflicting version of events about what happened on the day 
the van was collected, Ive thought about what I think is most likely to have happened on a 
balance of probabilities.
On balance, I think its more likely than not that B did attempt to contact Mr S on the day the 
van was collected and that Mr Ss van didnt have any personal possessions in it at the time 
it was collected from him. I say this because the version of events Mr S has described 
around a month after the van was collected, doesnt appear to be supported by the 
repossession report carried out by B on the day the van was collected.
B were required to attempt to contact Mr S and if successful, verify him with identification as 
part of the repossession report. Ive seen a copy of this report. The report confirms that B 
carried out several calls to Mr Ss address and tried to call Mr S but they were unsuccessful. 
B said when they returned the same day, they located the van parked outside Mr Ss 
address and again made an attempt to speak to Mr S but didnt receive a reply. As a result 
of this, they called Lex to obtain authority to recover the van and this was approved. So they 
recovered the van from Mr Ss property and transported it to auction. 
They also said they left a receipt at Mr Ss address in a sealed envelope. The report goes on 
to list that the V5, MOT certificate, service history and keys werent collected. It also 
confirmed that Mr Ss personal possessions had already been removed from the van, as it 
was empty at collection. The contents of the van were verified by the auction owner later that 
day. The appraisal confirmed that there were no personal possessions in the van and the 
items listed by B (V5 etc.) were unavailable. The auction owner has signed the vehicle 
appraisal to confirm it is accurate.
Ive also seen a copy of Lexs call notes from the day, prior to the collection, which confirm B 
contacted Lex to advise theyre at Mr Ss property and again they havent been able to 
contact Mr S, and so, the van would be collected. I think on balance, this is an accurate 
reflection of the events that took place on the day, as the call notes were recorded on the 
day the collection took place.  
Ive also seen email correspondence between Lex and B from March 2022, which confirms 
that B had attempted to make direct and phone contact with Mr S since November 2021 to 
arrange collection of the van. B confirmed that they had sighted the van for the first time at 
Mr Ss address on the day they collected the van. 
Also, given B was required to make contact with Mr S, I see no reason why they wouldnt do 
this and when they were unsuccessful in doing so, why they would explain what contact they 
had attempted to make and ask B for authority to recover the van. In addition, Mr S has 
confirmed he received the sealed envelope left by B on the day the van was recovered. And 
so, if he received the sealed envelope, this fits with Bs version of events, and further 
persuades me this is more likely than not to have happened on the day.
So overall, I think its more likely than not that Lex told Mr S it would be repossessing the van 
from him if he didnt clear the arrears, B attempted to contact Mr S prior to repossessing the 
van by telephone and in person, and that Mr Ss van was clear of personal possessions 
when the van was recovered. And so, it follows that I dont think Lex needs to do anything to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman