DRN-4455272
The complaint
Mr D complains about the failure by Barclays Bank UK PLC to get the funds from a pension 
policy to pay off his mortgage.
What happened
Mr D had an interest-only mortgage with Barclays from 1993 which matured on 31 May 
2022. I understand the outstanding balance to be just over £60,000. The repayment vehicle 
was a pension and Mr D had a pension provider that I shall call Firm A. The mortgage 
special conditions required Mr D to take out such a policy and allowed Barclays to approach 
the provider to ask for the funds on the mortgages maturity although the policy wasnt 
assigned to Barclays.
Barclays says it wrote to Firm A in May 2022 asking it to release the money due on the 
mortgage. It then wrote to Firm A again on 15 August and 8 November, getting a reply dated 
15 December 2022. Firm A said that it didnt have a policy assigned to Barclays and 
Barclays hadnt given it the policy number. In the meantime, Barclays said it tried to contact 
Mr D on 5 July and spoke to him on 15 July and again on 28 July when Mr D wanted to know 
why the account balance was increasing.
Mr D complained and Barclays issued a final response on 13 September 2022 telling Mr D 
that a letter had now been sent to Firm A claiming the money on 13 August 2022 and telling 
him that no interest was being charged to him.  It accepted that it had not managed the 
account in a professional and efficient manner and offered Mr D £400 by way of apology. 
Since then, Barclays received a letter from Firm A dated 15 December 2022 saying that it 
was unable to find a policy for Mr D and says it tried to contact Mr D but got no response.
Our investigator said that Barclays had tried to make contact with Firm A and when it heard 
back from thenm, it had tried to contact Mr D at the end of December and could demonstrate 
that. As it was Mr Ds responsibility to repay he mortgage and he hadnt done that, our 
investigator thought that Barclays offer of compensation for its earlier failure to deal with the 
issue promptly was a fair outcome. Mr D disagreed saying in summary that the letter of 
September 2022 told them that no interest was being charged and they had no contact from 
Barclays from the letter in September until they got a field agents visit in May 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint it seems to have been hoped by both Barclays and Mr D that a pension 
policy held with Firm A would be able to pay off the outstanding balance on this interest only 
mortgage when it matured in May 2022.  In fact, this didnt happen, and Mr D has as yet 
been unable to pay it off. I believe the difficulty arises due to the complexity of using a 
pension as a means of paying off an interest only mortgage and that Mr D is taking advice 
from an independent financial adviser about that.
But the assumption appears to have been shared between Mr D and Barclays that on 
maturity, Barclays could ask for the proceeds of the policy from Firm A and that Firm A 
would pay and that would pay off the whole of the mortgage or a substantial part of it. But it 
hasnt been paid. That means that the loan is outstanding and if a loan is outstanding 
interest would continue to accrue on it until it is paid off. Thats the normal position.
Mr D considers that unfair because of the delays in the communications between Barclays 
and Firm A. But also because of a letter dated 13 September 2022 when Barclays said that 
no interest is being charged to you. The context of that letter is that Barclays said that, after 
a delay, it had sent a claim letter to Firm A and Barclays was waiting for Firm A to get in 
touch with the bank so the mortgage can be redeemed. In the meantime, the mortgage 
was on a paid off status and the direct debits have stopped which means no interest is 
being charged to you . The letter goes on to say that because of the delay its offering £400 
compensation by way of apology. As the mortgage hasnt been redeemed, I would expect 
interest to accrue on the account. The reference to no interest being charged appears in the 
context of the direct debits being stopped so that, pending the mortgage being redeemed, 
Barclays arent collecting the monthly interest payments. In that sense Mr D isnt being 
charged interest although the interest will accumulate and be added to the account and paid 
off on redemption.
I accept that the wording of this could letter could be clearer. But why would Barclays waive 
its entitlement to interest when it hadnt yet been paid? It accepted it made an error in delay 
in the correspondence with Firm A, but its offer of compensation was to pay £400 and not to 
write off the remaining interest. The problem for Mr D is that Barclays is entitled to the 
interest whilst the loan is outstanding. Although the letter of 13 September 2022 can be 
interpreted in several ways, Barclays says that it didnt intend to waive its entitlement to 
interest and if that is the case the interest remains due. An argument could be made that Mr 
D was under the misapprehension that the interest wouldnt be charged and that he would 
have acted sooner to discharge the mortgage had he known interest was still accruing. But 
Mr D has known for some time that interest would be charged, and hes still been unable to 
redeem the mortgage, so I dont accept that acting on this misunderstanding caused him 
financial loss.
There is an issue in this complaint where there seems a lack of communication between Mr 
D and Barclays between September 2022 and May 2023. Barclays says it tried to contact Mr 
D in December by phone after it got its response from Firm A. Its clear that until September 
Mr D was in regular contact with Barclays but then his contact ceased. From reading the 
September letter I believe it would be reasonable for him to assume that Barclays was trying 
to contact Firm A abut the policy. But Mr D wouldnt have known whether this policy would 
be enough to pay off the mortgage, but he appears to show no further interest in this until he 
was contacted in May. Although Mr D blames Barclays for the lack of contact, hes ultimately 
responsible for paying the money off, and that money was due in May 2022. It would have 
been reasonable for him to make contact with Barclays to see how the attempts to get the 
money from Firm A was progressing and indeed how much it was expected would be raised 
from the policy to ascertain if there was to be a shortfall.  
The other issue is one of delay and whether it caused any financial loss? The problem for Mr 
D is that hes not yet in a position to pay off Barclays because of the complexity of the 
repayment vehicle. Barclays accepts that there was an initial delay in it dealing with the 
matter, but it then didnt receive a reply from Firm A until December at which point it tried to 
get through to Mr D. Any delay in Barclays correspondence with Firm A in the Autumn of 
2022 had no effect on the discharge of the mortgage as Mr D appears to require some 
further time to pay it off because of the tax implication of using his pension to do so. Mr D 
refers to payments being made in the next tax year. So, the delay in Barclays initial 
correspondence hasnt impacted the speed at which this mortgage could be discharged. But I accept that the delay at the start when Mr D believed the mortgage could have been 
paid off was concerning for him. Mr D should receive compensation for that. On reviewing 
the complaint, I believe that the £400 offered by Barclays represents fair compensation. In 
the meantime, Mr D has a problem in that the mortgage is post maturity and not been paid 
off. I would hope that Mr D and Barclays can come to an agreed solution so that the 
mortgage can be redeemed in a reasonable period given that the repayment vehicle is more 
complex than originally thought. I note that in his email to us of 16 August 2023, Mr D spoke 
about talking to Barclays about a repayment schedule which seems sensible.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay Mr D £400 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays should pay Mr D £400 if it has not already done so, 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman