DRN-1002256
the complaint
Ms C complains about Ageas Insurance Limited's decision to accept liability for an accident 
which occurred between her car and a bus, and to record it as a 'fault accident' against her.  
She was not allowed to see the bus company's video footage of the accident, and she also 
complains about the level of service she received from Ageas, including when - having 
agreed to write to her by email - it sent correspondence by post.
what happened
Ms C's car was struck by a bus at a junction in South London, where the road narrowed from 
two lanes to one.  She was unfamiliar with the road and, because the bus driver was likely to 
have known the road layout, Ms C felt that the accident wasn't her fault.  However, having 
looked at the evidence from the accident (in particular, the video footage from the bus), 
Ageas concluded that Ms C was at fault - because the bus had set off before her and should 
have been given priority.
Our investigator explained that it is not for us to determine liability in an accident, but instead 
to consider whether an insurer acted fairly in reaching its decision.  She was satisfied that, 
by concentrating on the video footage which showed the sequence of events, Ageas had 
done so - and that it had reached a fair decision.  But the investigator agreed with Ms C that 
Ageas could have been more helpful to her, and that it should not have written to her by post 
when it did.  She recommended that Ageas pay her £100 compensation.
Ageas accepted the investigator's recommendation, but Ms C did not.  She maintained that it 
was the bus driver - who should have known that the road narrowed into one lane - who had 
caused the accident, and she was upset that this was the first accident insurance claim that 
had been made against her in all her years of driving.
what Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come to the 
same overall conclusions as the investigator did, for much the same reasons.
I do very much understand why Ms C is upset at what happened, and I also recognise that 
she has not seen the video footage herself.  She did ask to see it, but the bus company 
would not agree for it to be released to her - because it included images of other people. 
I am, nevertheless, satisfied that Ageas did examine the footage - which showed that the 
bus moved ahead across the junction before Ms C and that it should, as a result, have been 
allowed priority.  So, together with everything else, I consider that Ageas had enough 
information to reach a fair overall decision about liability - which was that it was not the bus 
driver, but Ms C, who had been at fault.
Because this was the first time Ms C had ever had to make an insurance claim in all her 
years of driving I can see why she was disappointed by the overall standard of service she 
received from Ageas - in particular after it gave her its decision, and also by its failure to 
follow her request to write to her by email.  Having regard to the general level of awards we 
make, I agree with the investigator that Ageas should pay Ms C £100 compensation for this.my final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I uphold Ms C's complaint in part - albeit just to the extent 
of the investigator's recommended award.  To settle the complaint, Ageas Insurance Limited 
should pay Ms C £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2019.
David Millington
ombudsman