DRN-3264423
The complaint
Mr R complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) 
lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr R took out loans with MoneyBoat as follows:
loan start datemonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amounthighest instalment 
amount
118 November 2017 2 £200 £125.99
230 November 2017 4 £500 £196.87
Both loans have been repaid.
When Mr R complained to MoneyBoat, it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong. It also 
said that as it hadnt charged Mr R any extra interest when he repaid loan 2 more than two 
years later than planned, it felt it had done enough already. 
This led to Mr R bringing his complaint to us and one of our adjudicators investigated.
Our adjudicator felt that MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided either of the loans to Mr R 
given that the checks MoneyBoat did showed that Mr R was likely having problems 
managing his money when he applied for these loans. Our adjudicator felt that in these 
circumstances, MoneyBoat ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr R would be able to 
sustainably repay these loans and she set out the steps MoneyBoat should take to put 
things right for Mr R.
Despite a number of reminders, it appears that MoneyBoat hasnt either responded to our 
adjudicators view or taken any steps to put things right in the way she suggested. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Having done so, 
I am upholding Mr Rs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain 
why. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties 
and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Before agreeing to provide loan 1, MoneyBoat asked Mr R for details of his income and to 
tell MoneyBoat what he normally spent each month. It did an online check to verify the 
amount of Mr Rs salary. MoneyBoat also carried out credit checks. It boosted his 
expenses figure to reflect expenditure it saw on his credit report and/or bring his outgoings 
into line with the statistical average for someone in Mr Rs particular situation. After doing 
all this, MoneyBoat said he had sufficient disposable income left to cover the monthly 
repayments for this loan.
But I think MoneyBoat could see that what Mr R had declared about his financial situation 
looked to be at odds with the information shown on its credit checks that MoneyBoat sent 
to us. When he applied for loan 1, MoneyBoat gathered information showing that Mr R 
had a total of 68 accounts  9 of those were active when he applied for this loan. And his 
total indebtedness was more than £8,390  which was well over five times the amount of 
Mr Rs monthly take home pay and a significant amount of unsecured debt for someone in 
Mr Rs particular situation, given his minimal contribution to housing costs as he lived as 
part of another household. I think its fair to say that MoneyBoat could see that Mr R had been relying significantly on 
short term loans and other high cost credit for some time. And MoneyBoat was aware from 
its credit check that Mr R was already paying for borrowing from other short-term lenders 
and using high cost credit to help him manage his finances when he asked to borrow this 
loan from MoneyBoat. Even allowing for the fact that MoneyBoat had boosted his likely 
monthly spending, the figure Mr R would have to spend to cover his declared outgoings 
according to the information shown on MoneyBoats credit checks was now a significant 
amount of his income and accounted for the bulk of the disposable income MoneyBoats 
calculations suggested Mr R would have. 
This type of borrowing is intended to provide short term financial help in the event of 
temporary money problems. The information MoneyBoat had gathered about Mr Rs credit 
history shouldve made MoneyBoat realise that the indications were that Mr R was likely 
having serious problems managing his money. So I think this shouldve prompted the lender 
to do more in-depth checks because it didnt look like MoneyBoat had a proper 
understanding of Mr Rs financial situation given the contradictions in what it saw between 
what Mr R had said (or omitted to say) about his disposable income and his apparent 
reliance on expensive credit.
MoneyBoat could, of course, decide for itself how to undertake proportionate checking. But 
Mr R has provided a bank statement and credit report from around the time and, in the 
absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide to his finances. So Ive 
looked through these to see what MoneyBoat was likely to have found out about his overall 
financial situation had it carried out more in-depth checks as I believe it should have done 
before lending. 
MoneyBoat hasnt said it disagrees with what our adjudicator said or given me details of any 
specific points it disputes. So, I dont think I need to explain in detail what the information I've 
seen discloses about Mr Rs spending beyond saying that, had MoneyBoat looked more 
closely into Mr Rs finances, it would likely have seen that he was facing serious problems 
managing his money. So MoneyBoat should have realised it shouldnt be providing the loan 
to Mr R as it wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him in these circumstances.  
The fact that Mr R repaid loan 1 early doesnt mean that he was able to do so in a way that 
was sustainable for him. 
And given that his circumstances when he applied for loan 2 were broadly the same, I dont 
think MoneyBoat shouldve provided this loan either when a proportionate check wouldve 
revealed information that clearly showed the loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable 
for him. 
Although I've taken into account that MoneyBoat declined a number of other loan 
applications made by Mr R it doesn't mean that the loans it did provide were affordable and 
fairly loaned to him. 
For the reasons I've explained, I dont think MoneyBoat shouldve granted any of these 
loans to Mr R.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the principal amounts that he 
borrowed because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has had to pay extra for lending that shouldnt have been provided to him  so 
thats unfair.Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr R, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr R may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may 
not have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately.
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr R in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr R would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
For loans 1 and 2, MoneyBoat should do the following:
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balances on the loans and 
treat repayments made by Mr R as though they had been repayments of the 
principal loan amounts - not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr R which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr R originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr R the total of A plus B.
D. Whilst its fair that Mr Rs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about lending that was unfairly provided. So MoneyBoat should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mr Rs credit file regarding the loans.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk) to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr R.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman