DRN-3105165
The complaint
Mr O said that Santander UK Plc was trying to push ahead with litigation to repossess his 
home. He thought that that was unfair and unacceptable. And he said Santander had been 
trying to intimidate him.
 
What happened
Mr O said hed told Santander he was having trouble making his mortgage payments. He 
said in December 2019 it showed some understanding, and allowed him time to pay. But it 
also passed on his account for litigation. He said he raised the issue, and the litigation was 
stopped. He said Santander told many lies throughout this process, but he didnt say what 
those were.
Mr O said Santander then agreed, in early January, that he should have a two-month 
payment break. He told us he was supposed to ring Santander back on 23 March. He said 
he contacted Santander on 4 February to say hed still be getting in touch on 23 March, and 
updated it on his financial situation. He said he agreed then that hed ring back on 3 March.
Mr O said when he did ring back on 3 March, he was told the account had again been 
passed for litigation. He said that this was wrong, and again Santander lied to him, but he 
didnt say what those lies were.
Mr O said Santander must close the litigation against him, or instruct its solicitors to do so. 
And it must compensate him for the stress and anxiety caused, as well as for bullying him 
and falsifying information.
Santander said that Mr O had previously complained about his account being referred to 
litigation, in December 2019. That issue had been resolved, and Santander had paid him 
£135. Santander said this complaint was about the second reference to litigation, which 
happened in 2020.
Santander said it had explained to Mr O on a call dated 2 January 2020 that his mortgage 
was five months in arrears. It wasnt expecting payment for January, but Mr O said on that 
call that he would be able to pay in February, although he couldnt say how much. Santander 
said it had explained to Mr O that he needed to make his monthly payments and pay back 
the arrears.
Santander said that when Mr O called back in February, the agent failed to remind him that 
he needed to go through income and expenditure and make a payment. The agent just said 
the account was back from litigation and noted an agreement to restart payments from 
March. Santander said this wasnt right, and it had paid Mr O £50 compensation for that 
incorrect information.
Santander reviewed Mr Os account in March 2020, after he complained. It thought it had 
done enough to make up for the wrong information it had given to Mr O. And most 
importantly, Santander didnt think it had been wrong to refer this account for litigation.
Santander said that Mr Os mortgage couldnt be called back from litigation now, because of 
the level of arrears. It said Mr O had previously set a number of arrangements to pay, which 
he unfortunately hadnt been able to meet. And Santander said it had also previously asked 
him to complete income and expenditure details on a number of occasions, but he hadnt 
given that information either.
Mr O said hed missed out on being able to apply for a payment holiday because Santander 
had already sent his account to litigation. He said this had caused things to snowball. He 
thought that what Santander had done was more than a minor mistake.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Santander had 
recognised that Mr O was given wrong information on the call on 4 February, and it had paid 
compensation for that. But our investigator said Mr O was already five months in arrears 
then, and Santander was entitled to take action.
Mr O didnt agree. He said his recollection of the calls to Santander was very different. He 
said that during the call on 2 January 2020, he was given two months grace. And this was 
confirmed on 4 February 2020. Mr O said that on 4 February the agent then rang him back, 
and said the same thing again. So he said this wasnt a mistake.
Mr O repeated that if Santander hadnt sent his account for litigation while there was 
supposed to be a hold on the account, he couldve applied for the subsequent Covid-19 
mortgage payment holiday. He said it was Santanders wrongful action that meant he 
couldnt do that, and he said we hadnt taken this into account.
Mr O also said that wed made no assessment of whether Santander had bullied and 
intimidated him.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Mr O repeated that what Santander had done was 
wrong, and said the points he raised hadnt been answered. This case was then passed to 
me for a final decision.
Before reaching my decision in this case, I asked Santander for further information on this 
account, to bring the position up to date. And I arranged for Mr O to receive the call 
recordings from 2 January and 4 February with Santander.
Mr O has listened to those calls. He says Santander then called him back on 4 February, 
and theres no recording of that call. He said that Santander said the same thing on this 
second call, that he had been given more time to pay, with an arrangement set until March. 
And he said the outcome on his account wouldve been totally different if that had been 
honoured.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ive listened to the calls Mr O had with Santander. I can hear on the call on 2 January 
2020, Mr O said that his case had been recalled from solicitors, and he mentioned a 
complaint response letter. Santander has since explained that this is the letter sent in 
December 2019. It has provided notes showing it did recall Mr Os account.
This call recording was in two parts, as the agent tried to contact the solicitors to 
make sure the account was being recalled. He then went on to say that although the 
account hadnt yet been returned, Santander could continue to deal with it. 
Mr O then made a commitment to pay by this time next month. He explained that he 
was confident things would turn around in the next three to four weeks, although he 
wasnt specific about why he felt this would happen. The agent explained he didnt 
have to pay for this month, but that Santander would be in touch after that. And the 
agent stressed the need to clear the arrears too, so Mr O would need to make 
overpayments.
This call then completed. There was no offer to extend Mr Os non-payment 
agreement to March.
The internal notes that Santander made from this January call incorrectly record that 
Mr O was given an extension to his non-payment arrangement until March, on this, 
inbound call. Im satisfied that this wasnt said on the call.
When Mr O rang Santander back, on 4 February, he said that he wanted to check the 
arrangement he made on his last call in to Santander, around the 3rd of January. 
Ive listened to this call, from 4 February. On this date, the incorrect call notes made 
in January were read to Mr O. So he was told then that he had an agreement not to 
pay until March.
Mr O now says that Santander then rang him back, and said the same thing. I cant 
see anything on his notes to suggest this call was made, and it doesnt look like Mr O 
has mentioned this second call to us before. I dont think its likely that there were two 
calls on this date, or that theres a recording from 4 February that I dont have. But I 
do think that Santander had clearly stated to Mr O that he didnt need to make a 
payment until 3 March.
Mr O initially said that hed agreed to make a payment on 23 March, and just to ring 
back on 3 March. Thats not what I can hear on the 4 February recording. The agent 
said that there was nothing on his notes to set a date in March that his payment was 
due, but his due date was 3 March, so she said he needed to make a payment on or 
around 3 March.
We know that this was wrong. Santander had made a mistake. Mr O had told 
Santander that he could pay in early February, and thats what it had agreed with 
him. So after he didnt make that payment, his account was passed back to litigation 
in mid-February.
Mr O didnt make any payment in March either. But he says that if his account hadnt 
already been passed to litigation, he would then have been entitled to a payment holiday, under arrangements put in place to help mitigate the effects of the pandemic. 
So he says that things wouldve been very different for him.
I know that Santander made a mistake when it spoke to Mr O on the phone on 4 
February. It gave him incorrect information then, because the notes of the call made 
on 2 January dont reflect what was actually said on that call, and what had been 
agreed with Mr O. But I dont think it was a fundamental mistake for Santander to 
pass Mr Os account back to litigation at this point. Santander has shown our service 
the attempts it made, prior to this, to agree payment plans, and discuss the reason 
for these arrears with Mr O. It has also shown us that Mr O was, unfortunately, in a 
considerable amount of arrears by this time. So it looks to me as if Santander had 
already made efforts to avoid litigation on this account, and those hadnt been 
successful.
Mr O says that he couldve been given a payment holiday, under pandemic guidance, 
if his case hadnt been passed for litigation in February. But I dont agree that things 
would have been different for Mr O, if this had happened. Thats because Mr O didnt 
make any payment in early March either. So if his case hadnt been passed for 
litigation in mid-February, then I think its most likely it would simply have been 
passed for litigation in mid-March instead.
The guidance allowing for payment holidays wasnt issued until the end of March. I 
think its most likely that Mr Os account, which had considerable arrears, would 
already have been passed to litigation by this point.
So I think that Mr O didnt miss out on entitlement to a payment holiday because of 
wrong advice he got over the phone from Santander on 4 February. I think Mr O 
missed out on a payment holiday because he then didnt pay in early March either.
Because I think the impact of Santanders mistake on the phone was more limited 
than Mr O has suggested, I think that the payment of £50 it has made does provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to that part of Mr Os complaint.
Mr O didnt make any further payment towards his mortgage until May 2020, when he 
paid £1,000. Mr O made further payments in August and September 2020 of £1,000 
each. Unfortunately, that wasnt enough to clear his arrears.
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance has allowed for payment holidays of up 
to six months during the pandemic. But Mr O was already sufficiently far in arrears 
that Santander thought legal action was appropriate, before that guidance took effect 
in late March 2020. And Mr Os payments since then have been very limited. His 
arrears have increased  when Santanders lawyers wrote to him in May 2021 they 
said that he was more than £13,000 in arrears. 
Given the pre-existing level of arrears on Mr Os mortgage, and that he wasnt able to 
keep up regular payments during 2020, I also think that its most likely that, even if Mr 
O had been able to obtain a six-month payment holiday under the pandemic 
guidance, he would still be facing litigation now.
Not long after Mr Os account was passed for litigation, all such legal action was put 
on hold, under the pandemic guidance in place at the time. But that guidance has 
now changed, and in response, Santander has indicated to Mr O that it will proceed 
with action against him. I dont think thats a mistake.Mr O has said that Santander should show forbearance, and it should give him a 
chance. I do understand that this has been a very difficult time for those who are self-
employed. But Mr Os mortgage arrears started long before the pandemic. And 
Santander needs to bear in mind that while Mr O cant pay, his debt will continue to 
increase each month. So I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Santander to 
proceed with legal action now.
I also understand that it can be very unpleasant and frightening to receive letters 
warning of legal action. But Santander and its lawyers do have to explain to Mr O 
whats happening with his debt. I havent seen anything that makes me think that 
Santander has tried to bully or intimidate Mr O.
I know that Mr O will be very disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be 
upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said that it had nothing to add. It noted that Mr O had paid £1,000 per month in 
May, June and July. But it said that arrears of £12,150.12 remained, which put Mr O over a 
year in arrears on his mortgage. And he hadnt wanted to talk to its litigation team.
I note this update. I dont think this more recent information changes the position on this 
complaint.
Mr O said my provisional decision set out that on the January 2020 call Santander had with 
him, there was no offer to extend his non-payment agreement to March. But the internal 
notes that Santander made from this January call incorrectly record that Mr O was given an 
extension to his non-payment arrangement until March, on this, inbound call. Mr O noted 
that Id listened to the January call, and said that no such offer had actually been made. 
Mr O said that he had sent us a letter written by Santander dated 25 March 2020, with 
details from Santander's own internal investigation. The letter states 
You contacted us on the 4th of February 2020 and were not provided the correct 
information when confirming the account is being referred to litigation, it was 
confirmed that you were due to start making payments again in March and you were 
not informed to complete and Income and Expenditure survey.
So Mr O said this finding by Santanders internal investigation was a very important 
admission. And he said it contrasted with what Id said in my provisional decision. He noted 
that he started receiving letters from Santanders lawyers on 27 February 2020. 
But I dont think that there is any contrast between the passage Mr O draws to our attention, 
from the letter issued on 25 March 2020 by Santander, and what I said in my provisional 
decision above. 
I dont think Im saying anything different now to what Santander said in this part of its letter. 
And that means what Mr O says now, doesnt change my mind.Ill explain why I think that.
What I said in my provisional decision was, that on the January 2020 call, Mr O was not told 
he didnt need to pay until March. 
But the notes from the January call were wrong. They said he had been given an extension.
And then, on the February 2020 call, Santander read Mr O these notes. So he was wrongly 
told on this call that an agreement had been reached for him not to pay until March. 
My provisional decision says that I do think that Santander had clearly stated to Mr O that 
he didnt need to make a payment until 3 March. That happened on the February 2020 call.
So Ive noted here that Santander made a mistake. And this is the same mistake it refers to, 
on the February call, in the letter Mr O draws to our attention. It wrongly told Mr O on that 
call, that he didnt need to pay until early March. 
The key point is that I just dont think this mistake is why Mr O is facing litigation now. 
Mr Os argument, which I dealt with in full in my provisional decision, was that his mortgage 
was referred for litigation too early. 
And we know he got a letter from Santanders solicitors in late February 2020.
But I have to consider what would have happened if Santander hadnt passed this mortgage 
for litigation in late February.
On the February call, Santander asked Mr O to pay in early March. 
He didnt pay then.
So I think if Mr Os mortgage hadnt been passed to litigation in February, it would just have 
been passed to litigation in mid-March. 
Mr O thinks he would have been able to apply for a payment holiday, if Santander had 
extended his non-payment agreement in the way it promised on the February call. He thinks 
that would have avoided litigation.
But I dont think that, for reasons I explained in my provisional decision. In particular, I noted 
that payment holidays werent made widely available until late March 2020. And Ive 
explained that I think, if no mistake had been made in this case, Mr Os mortgage would 
already have been passed to litigation by then. 
So even if Santander had waited until after 3 March to pass Mr Os case to litigation, he still 
wouldnt have been able to defer his mortgage payments under arrangements made for the 
pandemic. 
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind. I still dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman