DRN-4159772
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the amount AXA Insurance UK Plc have given him when he made a 
claim for a broken laptop under a home insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The general idea of an insurance policy is to put someone back in the position they 
were, as far as practically possible, before the loss occurred. 
The policy says where no equivalent replacement is available then AXA will pay the 
full cost of replacing the item with no discount applied.
Here the specific laptop Mr W had was no longer available, so a cash settlement was 
considered. And it isnt in dispute the first model AXA based its cash settlement value 
against wasnt comparable to Mr Ws old laptop. 
Ive considered the second laptop AXA used as a comparison and I believe that as 
far as practicable possible it would be equivalent to what Mr W had. It would be 
virtually impossible to match all of the criteria and therefore some naturally may be 
slightly better or worse than what he had prevously, however overall, most of the 
main components were similar. 
Ive looked at the model Mr W has suggested however this seems to be higher in 
specification and a newer model than what he had.  While Mr W has said that this 
has comparable battery life to his old laptop and that this was important to him. I 
dont think based on one criterion alone it would be reasonable to ask AXA to pay the 
cost of a better laptop overall, as this would be considered betterment. So, I think its 
current offer of settlement is reasonable.
AXA has offered Mr W £25 compensation to reflect the time he spent on hold, on the 
telephone, during the claims process. I think this is reasonable. 
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint.  
Putting things right
To put things right AXA needs to make any outstanding payments to Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. I direct it 
to put things right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman