DRN-3981649
The complaint
Miss H complains Next Retail Limited refuse to write off her outstanding balance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator for 
these reasons:
I should start by explaining our Service is an informal alternative to the Courts. This 
means we dont have the power to make a finding on whether Next has or hasnt 
acted in line with the Equality Act 2010. However, we do take relevant legislation and 
regulations into account when deciding what we consider to be fair and reasonable.
Miss H has been very open with us and Next. Its clear shes going through a difficult 
time and her financial circumstances have changed since she opened her account. 
But for me to say Next have treated her unfairly, Id need to be satisfied theyve 
treated her differently to other consumers with similar circumstances. To do that Ive 
reviewed Nexts internal policy that details the circumstances in which a debt can be 
written off. Having done that, I cant agree Nexts decision not to write off Miss Hs 
debt was unfair or unreasonable. I appreciate Miss H would like to know the specific 
reasons why her request has been declined, however Nexts criteria is confidential 
and we dont have the power to make them share specifics with their customers. 
While Next didnt write off Miss Hs debt, they did offer her the option to set up a 
short-term or long-term repayment plan. Both options would have resulted in interest 
and charges being frozen, and I consider this was the right thing to do in the 
circumstances. Miss H didnt take Next up on their offer, so I cant say it was unfair 
that they continued to communicate with her about repaying what she owed.
Next has explained Miss Hs account has now defaulted. This means she will now 
need to speak with the debt collection agency managing her account to discuss her 
repayment options moving forward. 
For these reasons, while I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss H hoped for, Im not 
upholding her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint about Next Retail Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman