DRN-3284735
The complaint
Mr B complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) failed to provide him with log on 
credentials for the online portal for his pension plan despite repeated requests. He wants 
access to the portal and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr B lives abroad and ReAssure took over the administration of his plan from another 
provider in September 2020. Mr B emailed ReAssure on 29 December 2020, asking how he 
could access his pension account. Hearing nothing, Mr B emailed it again on 21 January 
2021 asking for an update. ReAssure logged a complaint and issued a final response the 
next day. It said it had sent a letter on 30 November 2020 with a code to access the online 
portal. It said it would reissue this and post a cheque for £90 as compensation for the 
inconvenience caused and not updating him on his request. 
Mr B says he didnt receive anything further from ReAssure and he referred his complaint to 
our service in April 2021. He said because of the way ReAssure sent post he was only just 
receiving letters from October 2020 and he couldnt manage his pension plan without online 
access.  
Our investigator looked into it and decided to uphold the complaint. 
He said despite repeated requests ReAssure hadnt confirmed it had reissued log on 
credentials and as of 26 November 2021 Mr B said he still wasnt able to access the online 
portal. Our investigator said ReAssure should resolve this urgently by providing clear 
instructions on how Mr B could access his pension details online. And that it should pay him 
a further £210 in compensation to give £300 in total for the distress and inconvenience hed 
been caused. 
ReAssure disagreed that further compensation should be paid. It said it didnt keep copies of 
letters providing log on credentials as these were individual to each customer and were time 
sensitive. It said as Mr B hadnt been receiving the letters it had agreed to make an 
exception to its normal procedure and provide the information verbally. It said it had called 
the number Mr B had provided on multiple occasions and had left voicemails which hadnt 
been returned. It acknowledged the time difference but said it felt its opening hours were 
sufficient for the issue to be dealt with.
Our investigator asked ReAssure for evidence it had tried to contact Mr B by both letter and 
telephone. After a delay ReAssure provided system notes. These indicated letters had been 
generated in November 2020 and in August and November 2021 and that voicemails had 
been left for Mr B in September and November 2021.
Our investigator said his view about the amount of compensation hadnt changed. He said 
the records provided by ReAssure showed it hadnt resent credentials after Mr B called in 
December 2020 because he lived overseas. When Mr B contacted it on 21 January 2021 it 
said it would send credentials and had paid £90 compensation for not acting on his earlier 
request, which at that point was fair for the inconvenience caused. 
However, there was no evidence that credentials had then been sent until August 2021, 
nearly seven months later and several months after Mr B had referred his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator said the £90 compensation ReAssure had paid didnt reflect the 
poor service and delays since January 2021 and should be increased to £300 in total.    
As ReAssure doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint.
I think Mr B has been inconvenienced by what happened. Fortunately, the issue has been 
resolved and he is now able to access the portal. ReAssure has explained its normal 
procedure is to issue time limited log on credentials by post to the address held on its files 
for security reasons. 
ReAssures proposal that the credentials could be provided verbally was a reasonable 
solution, but I think this should have been provided sooner. I say this because ReAssure 
made a system note on 5 January 2021 in response to Mr Bs request:
 invite sent end of Nov havent resent as lives in . 
This suggests there was some issue with providing the invitation to customers residing 
overseas and that ReAssure was aware of the problem. 
Theres no evidence ReAssure reissued log on credentials as it promised after its final 
response of 22 January 2021 until 6 August 2021, which Mr B says he still didnt receive. 
And it didnt call Mr B until 15 September 2021 to attempt to rectify the problem. Mr B says 
ReAssure did call on one occasion, which he was unable to answer, but that a message 
wasnt left.
Even if ReAssure did successfully leave messages for Mr B in September and November 
2021, this was still many months after it promised to resend the credentials. Following his 
complaint, it was already communicating via email with him, so this was another method that 
could have been used to help resolve the problem. So, I dont think Reassure treated Mr b 
fairly, the delay left Mr B with no access to information about his plan and no way of 
managing it. And, I think these further delays caused him additional distress and 
inconvenience. 
Putting things right
The compensation paid to date doesnt reflect that the problem wasnt resolved and 
continued for many more months. So, I think its fair that a further amount of £210 should be 
paid to give a total of £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against ReAssure Limited.
I direct ReAssure Limited to pay Mr B a further £210 in compensation to give £300 in total for 
the distress and inconvenience he has suffered. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman