DRN-4208096
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that the Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (ELICL) added 
an exclusion to a horse rider insurance policy taken out for the benefit of her daughter (who 
Ill refer to as Miss C). 
What happened
In early 2022, Ms C took out a horse rider insurance policy underwritten by ELICL (the 
policy). The policy includes cover for emergency vets fees for external visible accidental 
injury, public liability and personal accident sustained whilst riding a horse.
During the application process, Ms C was asked questions about Miss Cs health, and she 
declared that Miss C had autism.
ELICL asked Ms C to obtain a letter from a medical professional confirming whether Miss 
Cs autism had any impact on her ability to control a horse. Two letters were provided 
confirming the diagnosis but didnt comment on Miss Cs ability to ride, lead, handle or care 
for a horse. 
The following exclusion was endorsed on the policy:
With effect from the policy inception cover excludes any and all claims arising from 
or in association with the Riders autism
Ms C thought the exclusion was unfair and discriminatory. She was also unhappy that ELICL 
wouldnt agree to pay for the cost of her obtaining a GP report to provide an opinion.
ELICL maintained its position. It said it was entitled to consider whether a declared condition 
may present an increased insurance risk. Without any medical opinion about how Miss Cs 
autism impacted her ability to control a horse (if any), ELICL felt the exclusion was 
reasonable and in line with its underwriting criteria. 
Subsequently, Miss Cs GP confirmed it wouldnt be able to provide a letter as they had no 
independent knowledge of how, if at all, Miss Cs autism affects her ability to ride a horse. 
In its correspondence to Ms C dated March 2022 and its final response letter dated April 
2022, ELICL said, although it couldnt guarantee that it would lead to the removal of the 
exclusion, it would consider the views of Miss Cs riding instructor if this included their 
qualifications and opinion of Miss Cs capabilities with respect to riding and controlling a 
horse.
Unhappy, Ms C brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
looked into what happened and initially upheld the complaint, concluding that ELICL hadnt 
acted fairly and reasonably by adding the exclusion. She recommended it be removed from 
the policy and for ELICL to pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
ELICL then provided further information which our investigator considered. As a result, our 
investigator concluded that Ms Cs complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Ms C disagreed. So, this complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whether ELICL has acted fairly and reasonably in this case, Im required 
to take into account a number of things including relevant law. 
Ms C says ELICL has acted in breach of the Equality Act 2010 (the Act) by including the 
exclusion to the policy. Only a Court can determine whether theres been a breach of the 
Act, but Im required to take the provisions of the Act into account, if its relevant law, when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint.
Here the Act is only relevant if Miss Cs autism amounts to a disability as defined by section 
6 of the Act. For the purposes of this decision, even if it does (and I make no finding on this 
issue), and the provisions of the Act are relevant, I dont think ELICL has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by adding the exclusion to the policy. Ill explain why.
ELICL has provided us with its underwriting guidance setting out a list of medical 
conditions which require more medical information before considering whether it will 
exclude any claims arising from the riders medical condition. Im satisfied that its 
acted in line with this guidance when requesting a medical opinion in the 
circumstances of this case, given Miss Cs diagnosis of autism which was declared 
when applying for the policy.
ELICL has said its entitled to consider any additional risk presented by Miss Cs 
autism. Its explained the law as it relates to animal liability in the context of a horse-
riding accident. Looking at information provided by the NHS, Im satisfied that Autism, 
like all medical conditions, is different for everyone. 
Im persuaded that its fair and reasonable for ELICL to seek this professional opinion 
to decide whether to remove the exclusion in this case. Based on the information 
provided, I think its reasonably concluded that a medical opinion would assist it 
assess the risk of it being able to defend a potential claim if Miss C was involved in a 
horse-riding accident and as evidence to refute any argument that autism was the 
cause of the accident. 
Ive taken into account that Miss Cs GP said they wouldnt be able to provide an 
opinion as they had no independent knowledge of how, if at all, Miss Cs autism 
affects her ability to ride a horse. They suggested Miss Cs riding instructor would be 
in the best position to comment on this. I think ELICL has acted reasonably by 
agreeing to consider the written views of Miss Cs riding instructor in March and April 
2022.
Ms C says she was told by the underwriter during a call that it was highly unlikely the 
letter would make a difference because they arent a medical professional. Ive 
listened to a call dated early March 2022 and it reflects that Ms C was told that ELICL 
would consider a report from Miss Cs riding instructor in place of a GPs opinion. 
However, ELICL was unable to give any guarantees about whether it would be 
accepted. And I think thats fair. I dont think it could reasonably give such 
assurances without knowing what the riding instructor was able to say.
Without any opinion from Miss Cs GP or riding instructor, I dont think ELICL has acted unreasonably in this case by adding the exclusion and thereafter declining to 
remove it. I think its request for further medical/expert opinion was a reasonable and 
proportionate response to enable it to accurately and fairly assess any additional risk 
(if any) Miss C posed because of her autism.
Nor do I think it acted unreasonably by declining to pay for any GP report for Miss C. 
I dont think it was under any duty to do so, legally, contractually, regulatory or 
otherwise. At the time, it also offered to cancel the policy and provide a full refund, if 
Ms C didnt want to continue with the policy with the exclusion which I also think was 
fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman