DRN-3071603
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited suspended his credit account on the basis of
persistent debt.  
What happened
Mr B called Vanquis in August 2020 because he'd received a letter advising him that his
credit account would be suspended in October. The Vanquis advisor that Mr B spoke with
confirmed that this was because the account was considered as being in persistent debt. Mr
B explained that his recent payments meant that the balance was going down to which
Vanquis' advisor responded positively and nothing further was discussed.
In October, Mr B received a further letter from Vanquis advising that as his account was still
considered as being in persistent debt that his account would be suspended. Mr B called
Vanquis about this and confirmed that he'd spoken to Vanquis in August but that he'd been
led to believe that he could continue making his regular payments - which were slightly
above the minimum payments required - without consequence.
Vanquis explained that because Mr B hadn't increased the level of his repayments in the
manner that the previous persistent debt letters had advised him to, this meant that his
account hadnt come out of persistent debt status within the necessary timeframe and that
his account was being suspended as a result - although interest would continue to accrue on
the account. Mr B wasn't happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Vanquis looked at Mr B's complaint, but they felt that they had followed the guidance laid out
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) surrounding persistent debt, and that as such they
didn't feel that they had done anything wrong. So, they didn't uphold Mr B's complaint.
Mr B wasn't satisfied with Vanquis' response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Vanquis had acted
unfairly or unreasonably toward Mr B, so they also didn't uphold the complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 August 2021 as follows:
The Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") considers that a credit account is 
considered as being in persistent debt if the level of interest which accrues on that 
account is such that the monthly payments made towards that account by the 
customer result in the customer paying
more in interest and charges than they do towards paying off the capital balance on 
the account.
This can often be the cases where a customer is paying close to the minimum 
payment required on the account, which can result in the customer repaying monthly 
interest but making little progress towards reducing the capital balance - meaning 
that the monthly interest payments just keep becoming due.
Because of concerns about the long-term viability of such situations for credit 
account holders, the FCA issued new rules surrounding how a credit provider must 
manage accounts that are considered as being in persistent debt. These rules came 
into force in March 2018 and include that a credit provider must send letters to 
persistent debt customers advising that they're in persistent debt and explaining the 
level of additional monthly payment that the customer needs to make so that their 
account is no longer considered as being in a state of persistent debt.
These letters should also advise customers of the potential consequences of the 
account remaining in a state of persistent debt, which can include the suspension of 
the account and the initiation of a payment plan designed to clear the full outstanding 
of the balance over a period of no more than four years.
Vanquis contend that they followed the FCA rules surrounding persistent debt in this
instance. They sent the requisite letters to Mr B, and when Mr B didn't make the 
higher payments necessary to take his account out of persistent debt, Vanquis 
suspended Mr B's account and advised Mr B of the payments he'd need to make to 
clear the full outstanding balance within four years.
But the FCA's position on persistent debit isn't as simple or as routine as I've 
explained above, and in February 2020 the FCA updated its position and made 
specific reference to how a business should treat persistent debt 36-month ("PD36") 
customers - such as Mr B is in this instance - and also provided clarification on when 
a credit provider should suspend a customer account, and when not.
For instance, regarding account suspensions, the FCA state:
"We are also concerned that some firms may be planning a 'blanket' 
suspension of credit cards for all their PD36 customers.
The PD rules only require the suspension of cancellation of cards where a 
customer:
a) does not respond to the repayment options proposed within the time 
specified by the firm;
b) confirms that one or more of the proposed options are affordable but that 
they will not make the increased payments.
We remind firms that  when they choose to suspend or cancel a customer's 
access to credit they must serve customers with a notice giving reasons for 
this, and those reasons must be objectively justified.
There is no regulatory requirement (outside of those mentioned above) that a 
card must be suspended where a customer is in persistent debt, so an 
objective justification could not rely on such a requirement."I've listened to the recordings of the calls that Mr B made to Vanquis in both August 
and October and it's evident from these calls that Mr B was responding to Vanquis 
regarding the repayment options within the time specified by Vanquis. And this 
means I'm satisfied that clause (a) above doesn't apply in this instance.
Additionally, at no point during either of those calls does Mr B confirm that the 
repayment options being offered to him by Vanquis in their persistent debt letters is 
affordable for him, but that he won't make those increased payments. Indeed, it's 
notable from those calls that the affordability of those options for Mr B isnt discussed 
at all. Instead, Vanquis' advisors explained that these were the options available to 
Mr B resultant from his account being considered as being in persistent debt. And 
while Mr B did state that he wouldn't make these payments, it wasn't stated by Mr B 
that he could afford to make them but wouldn't. As such, I'm satisfied that clause (b) 
above also doesnt apply in this instance.
Similarly, I'm also satisfied that Vanquis haven't provided Mr B with any objectively 
justified reason as to why his account was suspended, other than that Vanquis 
considered it as being a stipulation of the persistent debt requirements - which as 
demonstrated above, isn't correct.
And considering the circumstances of Mr B's recent account management, where he 
had been making payments greater than the minimum amount and had reduced the 
outstanding balance on his account by over £800 over the past several months, I'd 
find it difficult to conclude that there was an objectively justified reason as to why his 
account should have been suspended at the time that it was.
It's also apparent to me, having listened to the call that Mr B made to Vanquis in 
August 2020 where he first discussed the persistent debt correspondence with 
Vanquis, that an opportunity was missed at that time to clearly explain to Mr B what 
an account being in persistent debt entails as well to have had a discussion with Mr B 
regarding his financial circumstances at that time and what steps he was able to 
make so as to take his account out of persistent debt status.
Indeed, the conversation that did take place in August about persistent debt was a no 
more than a few minutes long and consisted of a brief explanation by Vanquis' 
advisor after which time Mr B stated that his account balance is decreasing. 
Following this statement from Mr B, the advisor didn't check whether the payments 
being made by Mr B would result in his account no longer being considered as being 
in persistent debt - as would reasonably have been expected by this service - but 
instead the advisor indicated to Mr B that his current actions were fine and 
permissible, and so it's understandable to me why Mr B would have left that 
conversation feeling that nothing more needed to be done.
Vanquis may present a counter argument to this point that they had sent Mr B letters
explaining exactly what did need to be done for his account to no longer be 
considered as being in persistent debt. However, I would respond to such a counter 
argument by reiterating that Mr B had called Vanquis and asked specifically about 
these letters, at which time it would be expected that he would be provided with a 
clear explanation to his enquiries.
Finally, as mentioned previously, the FCA update in February 2020 clarified how 
credit providers should manage customers whose accounts have been in persistent 
debt for 36 months - such as Mr B's account was - and includes the following:Where the repayment options proposed by a firm are not sustainable for the 
customer, they will be in a better position if they contact the firm as they are 
entitled to receive forbearance (potentially including the reduction, waiving, or 
cancellation of interest and charges).
In this instance, Mr B did contact Vanquis, but because his financial position wasn't
discussed or assessed by Vanquis on either call, the sustainability of the repayment 
options also wasn't assessed. This means that it may have been the case that Mr B 
wasn't able to afford the repayment options and should have received appropriate 
forbearance from Vanquis - but didn't.
All of which means that my provisional decision here will be that I am upholding this
complaint in Mr B's favour, and my provisional instructions to Vanquis will be as 
follows:
1. Vanquis must remove the suspension from Mr B's credit account with immediate
effect.
2. Vanquis must contact Mr B to assess his current financial position. If such an
assessment determines that Mr B isn't able to afford the higher repayment options
presented by Vanquis then Vanquis must provide appropriate forbearance in line with
the FCA's February 2020 statement.
3. Vanquis must make a payment of £150 to Mr B to compensate him for the trouble
and upset this matter has caused. This payment may not take the form of a credit to
Mr B's Vanquis credit account.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr B and Vanquis the opportunity to provide 
any comments of further information that they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision.
Mr B stated his agreement with my provisional decision but requested that the interest that 
had accrued on the account balance during the period of suspension be reimbursed to the 
account. However, while Im satisfied that Vanquis shouldnt have suspended the account in 
this instance, I dont feel that it follows from this that the balance of the account shouldnt 
have continued to accrue interest at the applicable rate during the period of suspension.
Indeed, while Mr B couldnt undertake new transactions during the period of account 
suspension, the balance on the account at that time consists of credit that he has had the 
benefit of prior to the account suspension, and so Im satisfied that its fair that this balance 
should continue to have accrued interest while the account was suspended. As such, I dont 
feel that I can reasonably assent to Mr Bs request here.
In its response to my provisional decision, Vanquis also largely agreed with the decision, but 
suggested that the account suspension should remain in place pending an investigation into 
the account to check whether the account suspension is objectively justified. 
Im not convinced that Vanquis suggestion represents a fair outcome here, especially given 
that it appears evident to me that the only reason that Vanquis suspended Mr Bs account 
was on the grounds of the persistent debt regulations - which Im satisfied wasnt a 
reasonable justification as per my provisional decision above. As such, I continue to feel that 
Mr Bs account suspension should be removed with immediate effect. 
If its the case that Vanquis does feel, for reasonable and justifiable alterative reasons, that 
Mr Bs account should be suspended, then Vanquis is within its rights to do so. However, given the particulars of this complaint, including my instruction here, I would encourage 
Vanquis to only undertake such an account suspension if it is assured of that actions 
demonstrable legitimacy and that it couldnt be construed as constituting an unfair outcome 
to Mr B.
It follows that, after considering the comments provided by both Mr B and Vanquis, I see no 
reason not to uphold this complaint in Mr Bs favour on the basis explained previously in my 
provisional decision, and my final decision will be that I do uphold this complaint on that 
basis accordingly. 
Putting things right
Vanquis must remove the suspension from Mr B's credit account with immediate effect.
Vanquis must contact Mr B to assess his current financial position. If such an assessment 
determines that Mr B isn't able to afford the higher repayment options presented by Vanquis 
then Vanquis must provide appropriate forbearance in line with the FCA's February 2020 
statement.
Vanquis must make a payment of £150 to Mr B to compensate him for the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused. This payment may not take the form of a credit to Mr B's Vanquis 
credit account. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman