DRN-3454183
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly lent 
to her.
What happened
Everyday Loans lent Mrs F two loans in 2014. The first loan was lent in July 2014, it was for 
£4,000 with 24 monthly repayments of £280.25. The second loan was lent in October 2014, 
the loan was for £6,750, £4,142.93 of it was used to repay loan 1. The second loan was for a 
term of 42 months with monthly repayments of £615.51.
When Mrs F complained to Everyday Loans, it didnt uphold her complaint and so she 
referred it to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator 
didnt think Everyday Loans was wrong to lend any of the loans to Mrs F.
Mrs F disagreed she said at the time of the loan, her credit rating was poor, and she was the 
sole provider for a family of four, so she couldnt afford to repay the loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs F could repay the loans without undue financial difficulties and in a sustainable way. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.  
Everyday Loans has provided evidence to show that before lending this loan, it asked Mrs F 
about her monthly income, saw bank statements and before lending loan 1, it saw Mrs Fs 
payslip. It is unclear if Everyday Loans carried out a credit search into Mrs Fs credit file as 
the credit file results it has provided are from November 2015, after both loans had been 
lent, so I dont know if it saw Mrs Fs credit score at the time of the loans. Everyday Loans 
wasnt required to carry out a credit search and the credit score on its own shouldnt be the 
only factor it considers when deciding to lend. 
I can also see that Everyday Loans worked out Mrs Fs income and expenses and found that 
she had sufficient disposable income to repay the loans.
I think Everyday Loans checks went far enough, I think Mrs Fs bank statements gave quiet 
a good snapshot of her financial circumstances at the time and looking at those statements, 
there was nothing within them that should have concerned Everyday Loans that Mrs F would 
struggle to repay either loan.
Mrs F received regular income from a job and also benefits that provided enough to cover 
her living costs and repay this loan. Mrs F would have been left with sufficient disposable 
income after taking into account her outgoings. From what I can see, Mrs F only had one 
other loan with another provider for around £130 a month and so she didnt appear reliant on 
credit.
While I appreciate that Mrs F doesnt believe she could afford the loans, theres nothing from 
the reasonable checks Everyday Loans carried out that suggests she couldnt and so I dont 
think it was wrong to lend any of the loans in the circumstances.
There is an outstanding balance on Mrs Fs account with Everyday Loans and so I would 
remind it of its obligation to treat Mrs F fairly in her repayment of the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman