DRN-4364351
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Monzo Bank Plc discriminated against her when she attempted to 
open an account with them, due to her nationality.
What happened
In April 2022 Mrs T applied for an account with Monzo. As part of her application process, 
she submitted her Belarussian passport as identification. But Monzo told her they couldnt 
accept her passport as identification. They said they would be willing to accept alternative 
identification. 
Mrs T complained, saying she didnt have any other forms of identification, only her 
passport. She said Belarus was listed as a support country on the Monzo app, and friends 
from other countries hadnt had the same difficulties in opening accounts. She said she was 
discriminated against because of her nationality.
Monzo responded to say they were able to accept certain types of documents from various 
countries, but they werent able to give any specific information about this. They said they 
had complied with their internal procedures, so werent able to add anything further. 
Unhappy with this Mrs T complained to our service. Our investigator didnt think Monzo had 
done anything wrong, so Mrs T asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman. 
As such the complaint was passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I was satisfied Monzo had treated Mrs T unfairly. I issued my 
provisional decision which said:
Mrs T feels very strongly that she has been discriminated against by Monzo. The key piece 
of legislation that deals with discrimination in the UK is the Equality Act 2010. But only the 
courts can make a finding of whether the Equality Act has been breached. My role here is to 
decide this complaint based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable  taking in to 
account the relevant legislation and regulations, industry standard and what I consider to be 
good practice.
Its right that Monzo have legal and regulatory obligations to ensure they know the true 
identity of their consumers and have adequate information on file to demonstrate this.
In this case Mrs T submitted her passport. Monzo havent demonstrated there were any 
other specific problems or concerns with her passport. And theres no evidence of any other 
concerns with Mrs Ts application, although it doesnt look like it progressed any further after 
the identification was rejected. Instead theyve talked about why they cant accept certain 
documents  which tells me the issue is broader than Mrs Ts individual circumstances. 
I asked Monzo for further information on the reasoning in declining Mrs Ts passport, but 
they confirmed there was no further information to provide. They instead provided a link to 
Monzos anti-discrimination statement.
While I accept Monzo have stated they had complied with its internal procedures, they 
havent been able to demonstrate this to our service. In the absence of providing any further 
information or explanation of why Mrs Ts passport cant be accepted, I cant reasonably 
conclude that it has acted in line with its internal procedures. And I understand why this 
would have impacted Mrs T.
With that in mind, Ive gone on to consider the impact on Mrs T. Shes confirmed she didnt 
have any alternative identification at the time, or any alternative banking arrangements While 
Monzo may have accepted other identification, this wasnt something she was able to 
provide which will have been frustrating. I have also considered that in the absence of a 
clear explanation Mrs T was left uncertain how to proceed.
How the application process doesnt appear to have been completed, so I cant say for 
certain whether Monzo would have accepted Mrs Ts application after all their checks had 
been carried out. So, I have kept this in mind when considering my award. In any event I 
understand Mrs T now has banking facilities elsewhere. So, Im not recommending Monzo 
open an account for her.
But I think its appropriate Monzo pay her some compensation to reflect the distress caused 
by not providing an explanation to support the decision made. Having considered everything, 
£250 is a reasonable reflection of the distress caused.
This outcome was accepted by Mrs T, who did not have anything further to add. Monzo 
rejected the provisional decision, saying they had confirmed they do not accept these 
documents, and this demonstrates theyve followed their internal procedures.
Ive now reviewed all the evidence afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, Im still minded that the complaint should succeed.
Ive considered what Monzo have said, and reviewed the information sent to us previously 
about the types of documents they arent willing to accept. We have previously asked further 
questions about this policy, but ultimately Monzo have declined to answer them. They have 
also provided no further explanation or rationale for declining to accept Mrs Ts passport. 
There is no suggestion there was something specific to Mrs Ts documents or application 
that caused concern.
Businesses are free to set their own policies  but just because something is bank policy 
doesnt mean it cant lead to unfair or unreasonable outcomes for people. Our service would 
usually expect a business to be able to explain why this policy was applied in the way it has. 
But here Monzo havent been able to explain to my satisfaction why the decision to decline 
Mrs Ts passport was in line with their internal processes.
In this case Monzo havent been able to adequately explain why it was fair or reasonable to 
decline to accept Mrs Ts passport  either directly to Mrs T or to our service. At the time she 
had no other identification to provide. So, in effect it appears shes been treated differently 
than someone else in a similar circumstance with a different nationality. So, I can see why 
she would be left feeling frustrated and confused. I dont see that Monzo have treated her 
fairly.Mrs T hasnt requested an account be opened, and we dont know for certain whether she 
would have met the rest of the criteria for the Monzo account. But I remain satisfied that its 
appropriate that Monzo pay her compensation to reflect the distress caused by their lack of a 
reasonable explanation to support the decision they made. Ive received no new evidence on 
the impact of the decision, so Im satisfied £250 is a reasonable reflection of the distress 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd must pay Mrs T £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman