DRN-4075695
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr H successfully applied for two loans with National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) in 
2016. The first loan was for £8,000 and was taken out in May 2016 with monthly repayments 
of £209.51. The second loan was for £18,900 and was taken out in November 2016 with 
monthly repayments of £473.59.
In 2022, Mr H complained to Natwest about their decision to grant him the loans. Natwest 
didnt uphold the complaint and said that Mr Hs applications met their lending criteria. 
Mr H referred the matter to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
Natwest carried out proportionate affordability checks for both loans and that there was 
nothing within those checks which told them the loans were unaffordable. 
Mr H didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint has been set up against Natwest. Unfortunately, neither party have been 
able to send us a copy of the loan agreements so there is some doubt as to whether 
Natwest is the correct respondent firm to this complaint. We havent though been told that 
this is incorrect or that Mr H isnt the sole contracting party to the loans. So, while the 
position is unclear, I am proceeding on the basis that Mr H took these loans out himself and 
that Natwest provided those loans. 
Ive taken into account the rules and guidance for lenders in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (known as CONC) within the regulators handbook, when thinking about 
whether Natwest acted fairly and reasonably.
Prior to granting Mr H with credit, Natwest were required to ensure it would be affordable 
and sustainable. There isnt a set list of checks they needed to complete, instead Natwest 
needed to ensure the checks they completed were proportionate for each lending decision. 
What is considered proportionate will therefore vary with each lending decision. 
In deciding what is proportionate, Natwest needed to take into consideration things such as 
(but not limited to): the amount of credit, the total cost of credit, the size of the monthly 
repayments and Mr Hs specific circumstances.
Loan 1
Natwest says Mr H confirmed his monthly income at the time to be £1,500. And they say that 
they asked him for evidence of this as well as evidence of his monthly outgoings. From this, 
Natwest determined that Mr Hs outgoings were £546 each month. 
Its not entirely clear what evidence Natwest considered. I note in their final response letter 
to Mr H that they gave rather general comments about how they assess affordability in using 
credit reference agency data and Office of National Statistics data. It seems from the 
information theyve sent to us that they carried out some form of credit check and looked at 
Mr Hs bank account statements for the current account that he held with them. 
It also seems that Natwest may have looked at those account statements only to verify       
Mr Hs income. Natwest has sent us a copy of these statements and these show that Mr Hs 
monthly income was broadly the same as he had declared. So, I think Natwest took 
reasonable steps to verify Mr Hs income. 
I dont though know whether Natwest also used those account statements to look at Mr Hs 
monthly outgoings. Its not clear to me what check Natwest did, and they havent explained 
what evidence they asked for and saw to check this. 
I think though that the information shown on those bank statements would have given 
Natwest a reasonable idea of Mr Hs monthly outgoings, including any existing ongoing 
credit commitments. I can see from this in the three months leading up to the loan that Mr H 
had two regular credit commitments of £130.92 and £148.58 each month as well as a 
payment of £20 to a mobile phone supplier. I havent seen any other regular commitment 
from the bank statements, from the application data that Natwest gathered or on the copy of 
the credit file that Mr H sent to us. So, Mr H would have been left with around £1,200 for 
monthly living costs and the proposed monthly loan repayment of £209.51. 
So, even though I have my doubts about whether Natwest carried out a proportionate 
affordability check, I dont find that they should have had cause to think that this loan would 
be unaffordable. 
Loan 2
From what I can see, Natwest carried out broadly the same affordability check than they did 
for Mr Hs first loan. Mr H declared his income to be the same as before and Natwest verified 
this using the bank account statements. As with the first loan application, I think Natwest 
took reasonable and proportionate steps to verify Mr Hs income and the information shown 
broadly matched what Mr H declared. 
However, for this loan, Mr H was asking for over double what hed received only a few 
months before. That should have potentially flagged some concern to Natwest as the 
amount being asked for wasnt insignificant and was made very shortly after hed applied for 
the first loan. Mr H did though say that the purpose of the loan was for consolidation and just 
under £8,000 of this was used to settle Mr Hs first loan with Natwest. I think it would have been reasonable for Natwest to have thought that Mr H intended to use 
the loan to repay other borrowing bearing in mind the reason he gave for applying for the 
loan, like for instance the two regular credit commitments of £130.92 and £148.58. Although 
the amount Mr H had to repay had increased to £473.59 each month, this was offset by Mr H 
no longer needing to make the loan repayments of £209.51 for the first loan and potentially 
the two other regular credit commitments. So, overall, this would potentially have left Mr H in 
broadly the same position in respect of the income he was receiving, and the amount of 
money left over for his other monthly living costs. I think it was reasonable for Natwest to 
have assumed this even though again I dont really know what checks they did to assess   
Mr Hs monthly outgoings. 
Natwests credit check data showed that Mr H had recently taken out a new credit card. So, 
Mr H was committed to repaying other, newer credit than previously. The credit check 
showed the balance on the credit card to be just under £200. I dont think though this should 
have caused Natwest concern that Mr H might not have able to clear this in a reasonable 
period of time bearing in mind the balance was relatively low and taking into account the 
disposable income Mr H seemed to have available to help repay this and his other costs. 
So, in a similar vein to the first loan, I do have my doubts as to whether Natwest carried out 
proportionate checks. But I dont think there would have been any obvious concerns that    
Mr H wasnt able to afford the loan repayments for the second loan. I note that Mr H has said 
that he was gambling at the time. The bank statements Ive seen dont show though that 
payments were being made to specific gambling merchants. There are quite a few cash 
withdrawals in the three months leading up to this loan. But I dont think that should have 
caused Natwest any particular concern as there was no obvious reason what these 
withdrawals were being used for or that Mr H was likely to continue to make the same level 
of withdrawals. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman