DRN-1779905
The complaint
Mr W complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited turned down his private medical 
insurance claim for NHS cash benefit.
What happened
Mr W made a claim under his employers private medical insurance policy for NHS cash 
benefit after undergoing treatment at an NHS hospital. AXA turned down the claim, as it 
thought the treatment wouldnt have been eligible under the policy to take place privately, as 
required for NHS cash benefit to be paid. Unhappy with this, Mr W brought a complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been 
reasonable for AXA to conclude that the treatment wasnt conventional, and therefore not 
eligible under the policy terms for private treatment.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains £100 NHS cash benefit is payable per night when the insured has free 
treatment under the NHS. It says this is payable when AXA would have covered the 
treatment if the insured had it privately.
Ive therefore considered whether Mr W couldve had the treatment covered by AXA 
privately.
The policy explains that for treatment to be eligible for cover, it would need to be 
conventional (as well as satisfy some other conditions). 
Conventional treatment is defined in the policy as treatment that:
is established as best medical practice and is practised widely within the UK; and
is clinically appropriate in terms of necessity, type, frequency, extent, duration and 
the facility or location where the treatment is provided; and has either
been shown to be effective for your medical condition through substantive peer 
reviewed clinical evidence in published authoritative medical journals; or
been approved by NICE (The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) as a 
treatment which may be used in routine practice.
I see that a trial took place at the NHS hospital where Mr W received his treatment. This was 
the only NHS hospital to take part in the trial. 
The Multiple Sclerosis Society website has some information about the treatment in 
question. It explains there are three centres in the UK where the treatment can take place, 
with two being centres that offer the treatment on a private basis and one being the NHS 
hospital where Mr W received his treatment.
Mr W has provided a letter from the NHS hospital where he had the treatment. That letter 
confirmed that the treatment wasnt part of a clinical trial, and though he was treated with a 
regime that had been used in the clinical trial (that took place in the hospital), the trial had 
been closed to recruitment two years earlier. The letter also said the treatment was routinely 
funded by NHS England for eligible patients, which included Mr W. 
I appreciate that Mr Ws treatment wasnt part of a trial. However, the hospital where he had 
the treatment was the NHS hospital that was involved in the trial, and is one of only three 
centres in the UK where the treatment is offered. And although the hospital said the 
treatment was routinely funded by NHS England for eligible patients, I would assume that 
would only be the case at that particular hospital, given that the treatment isnt provided at 
other NHS trusts. 
Given the limited number of centres that offer the treatment in question, I dont think it can be 
said that the treatment is considered to be best medical practice for Mr Ws condition, or that 
its practised widely in the UK. 
Ive also considered whether the treatment has been shown to be effective through peer 
reviewed clinical evidence in medical journals or been approved by NICE. 
An NHS England document confirms the treatment for autoimmunity is commissioned at 
specialised centres and is being offered to some people with Mr Ws condition in some parts 
of the UK. But there isnt yet an adequately controlled trial of its efficacy (i.e. effectiveness). 
Theres been one published study, which said that further research was needed to assess 
long-term outcomes and safety. And I understand the findings of the trial that took place in 
the NHS hospital where Mr W had his treatment hasnt yet been published. 
NICE guidance is at the proposal stage and the publication of that guidance hasnt yet taken 
place.
Based on this, I agree with AXA that the treatment hasnt been shown to be effective through 
substantive peer reviewed clinical evidence published in medical journals, or been approved 
by NICE as a treatment which may be used in routine practice.
As the treatment doesnt satisfy the above three points of the definition, I dont need to also 
consider whether the treatment was clinically appropriate. 
Im therefore satisfied that it was reasonable for AXA to say the treatment doesnt fall within 
the definition of conventional treatment.
The policy says there are some exceptions to the need for the treatment to be conventional, 
and explains there are times when AXA will cover unproven treatment. The policy confirms 
the cover for unproven treatment is more restrictive than for conventional treatments, and 
says unproven treatment must:
be authorised by us before it takes place
Take place in the UK
Be agreed by us as a suitable equivalent to conventional treatment.If there is no suitable equivalent conventional treatment, there wont be any cover for the 
unproven treatment.
The policy then goes on to explain the amount AXA would pay for unproven treatment would 
depend on how much it costs and how much AXA would pay for conventional treatment. It 
clarifies this by explaining that if the unproven treatment cost less than the equivalent 
conventional treatment, it would pay the cost of the unproven treatment. But if the unproven 
treatment cost more than equivalent conventional treatment, AXA would pay up to the 
amount it would have paid for the conventional treatment. 
AXA says there isnt any equivalent conventional treatments, and so theres no cover under 
the policy for unproven treatment. I havent seen any evidence which contradicts AXAs view 
on this, and so Im satisfied AXA wouldnt provide cover for the treatment under the 
unproven treatment section either.
Consequently, I think it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that it wouldnt have provided 
cover for the treatment privately under the policy, and so there is no NHS cash benefit cover 
payable. 
When Mr W initially made a claim under the policy for NHS cash benefit, AXA sent him £200 
before it realised that his treatment wouldnt have been covered privately. Its paid him this 
as a gesture of goodwill for the error, which I think was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman