DRN-3292966
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that he hasnt received monthly dividends from his investment after it was 
taken over by Interactive Investor Services Limited, referred to as the business or IISL.  
What happened
I understand that Mr B first invested with a business 20 years ago, before his investment 
was taken over by a different business, and then by IISL in 2020. 
Based on what Mr P says, I understand that in the past he experienced a similar issue with 
his dividend payments, and it was resolved by the previous business using a Building 
Society reference number or something similar.  
IISL didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that the dividend payments were 
rejected by Mr As Building Society account because the reference information couldnt be 
matched. It said that it could only make dividend payments to a UK bank account.  
Mr A thinks that this is unfair to him and others like him in similar situations and would like 
the business to pay him the dividend payments owed to him. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Although the business terms of service, at section 5.8.2, state Withdrawals can only 
be made to a nominated bank account in your name, the business still had an 
obligation to pay Mr A the dividends that are owed to him.
Mr A wasnt aware that IISL wouldnt be making dividend payments to his Building 
Society account and had to contact the business to find out what was happening. 
The payment was rejected by the Building Society because of the missing reference 
number. This shouldve been raised with Mr A so that he couldve made other 
arrangements. 
In the circumstances IISL didnt do all it could to assist Mr A, and he has since closed 
the investment.   
In the circumstances IISL should pay Mr A £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
The business disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In summary, it said:
Mr A was provided with guidance on the migration of his account to it, which he 
confirmed hed read. 
The guidance included links to its terms and conditions which made clear that its 
payaway service is only available to bank accounts, and that manual payments 
would be required to all other payments. 
It doesnt have an obligation to pay dividends directly to customers, its a feature of 
its platform and a service it doesnt offer. 
It has an obligation to receive the dividends and hold them on its platform, within 
customer accounts. Its from here the customer can choose what action to take, 
whether it be to reinvest, leave as cash or withdraw. 
Mr A had contacted the busines to change his beneficiary reference but was told that 
this was only relevant once the bank received the payment. Mr A continued to make 
the same request and was given the same answer. 
Mr As Building Society rejected the businesss payment, as a result of its system 
generated information. Hence, it states clearly in its Terms of Service, that it cant 
make payments to Building Societies. 
If Mr A didnt read its terms and conditions, its not something it can be held 
responsible for.  
Mr A also responded and reiterated his position. He made the following key submissions: 
By protesting he was able to restore dividend payments to his account on the 
previous occasion. He was also assured that when IISL took over the previous 
arrangements would continue to apply, but they didnt. 
Mr A complained by email, letter, and telephone. 
His wife has also not received dividend payments. 
In order to resolve the matter, he would like:
oAn apology for not making clear that the Building Society couldnt accept 
payment from it. 
oAn explanation for the reasons behind its policy. 
oAn explanation as to why, when the cheques were being returned every 
month, IISL didnt contact him. 
oSome compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, Im unable to 
safely say that it behaved reasonably towards Mr A, which goes over and beyond its simple 
terms and conditions.  
On balance, I also think the investigators recommendation to award £75 compensation is 
broadly fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this case. 
Im aware that in the past, a similar issue  involving dividend payments following a takeover 
by the previous business  was resolved using a reference number/roll number. But based 
on what IISL says, in this instance it wasnt possible to resolve the issue in the same way. 
Unlike the previous business, I understand that IISL  in line with its terms and conditions  
could only pay dividends into bank accounts, and any other payments had to be done 
manually. 
Im also aware that a business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate 
commercial judgement, to decide how it pays customer dividends. Its not for us to tell a business how to run its affairs therefore I dont think IISL needs to explain its policy on this 
point.  
Im also aware that in a takeover/acquisition, an acquiring business isnt automatically bound 
by the terms of a previous business, even though Mr A probably thought it was. 
In other words, a new business isnt bound to operate in the same way as the previous 
business did. So, I cant say that IISL behaved incorrectly by not operating in the same way 
as the previous business, or by not operating in line with any undertakings the previous 
businesses may have given Mr A. 
I understand that Mr A got in touch with IISL soon after he discovered that he wasnt 
receiving dividend payments, and thereafter sent numerous secure messages. Its likely that 
he thought the situation could be sorted out in the same way as on the last occasion. In 
other words, he did what he thought was necessary to try and resolve the issue so that he 
could continue receiving dividend payments. 
In the circumstances I agree with the investigator that IISL couldve done more to clarify the 
matter and explain to Mr A in simple terms that what he wanted wasnt possible and the 
(manual) steps he might take to resolve it. 
I note the business says it was for Mr A to provide details of a bank account that could 
accept the payments. I also appreciate the business says that it doesnt have an obligation 
to pay dividends directly to customers, its a feature of its platform and a service it doesnt 
offer. But in the circumstances, I dont think Mr A was aware of this and the business  
despite being an execution only service  didnt do enough to make this clear to him given 
his age and circumstances. 
In my opinion it was evident that Mr A  an elderly gentleman in his 80s, suffering from ill 
health, with little or no online/IT skills, and who has held a Building Society account all his life 
- didnt understand what was going on. 
Its probably why he kept sending the same message to IISL unaware that it wasnt going to 
make a difference, and unhelpfully the business kept providing the same response without 
any further useful explanation.  
 
I also note Mr A says that the business didnt contact him/his wife even though the dividend 
cheque payments were being returned - although its not entirely clear if this was in relation 
to Mr A, his wife, or both of them. In any case, in the circumstances I think the 
recommendation made by the investigator to pay Mr A £75 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Pay Mr A £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Interactive Investor Services Limited should pay Mr A redress as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman