DRN-3120588
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs C says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
According to AXAs records, Mrs C paid a total of £5.12 for PPI during the policys lifetime.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because this was a sale by phone around five years after Mrs C 
took out her store card. 
Because its likely Mrs C had used her card during this five-year period, I think its 
unlikely she would have been under the impression that she had to have PPI at this 
stage.
And while AXA no longer has a recording of the phone call in which Mrs C took out PPI, I 
have seen some example call scripts from around the time in question, which show that 
a consumer would have understood they had a choice about PPI and had to agree to it 
being added to their account. 
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of anything to persuade me that 
something different happened in Mrs Cs case, I think its likely Mrs C chose to take out 
PPI and did so without undue pressure.  
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs C enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs C  for example she 
was eligible for the cover and there was nothing about her employment or occupation 
which would have made it difficult for her to claim.
Although Mrs C says she had a medical condition around 11 years prior to her taking out 
the policy, I dont think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion 
wouldve caused her to change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this because 
Mrs Cs hasnt said or implied that her condition caused her to take any time off work or 
that it was ongoing. And importantly in this case, theres nothing to suggest she sought 
advice or treatment for her condition in the 12 months leading up to taking out the policy. 
As such, and because it also looks like the policy was affordable, it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. So I dont think Mrs C would have 
declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale (including what Ive said 
above about her prior condition) and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she would have still thought 
she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman