DRN-4365714
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Ms Y hold with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Ms Y says 
HSBC failed to make explicitly clear a policy change that would have allowed her to apply for 
a new interest rate product earlier than she had been previously led to believe. This meant 
that when she did apply, interest rates had increased which Ms Y says has left her out of 
pocket.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 18 September 2023, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms Y and HSBC. Our 
decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information here 
that might result in Ms Y being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the key 
events, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ms Ys mortgage was on a fixed rate that was due to expire on 31 December 2022. 
Early in August 2022, mindful of the upward trend in interest rates, Ms Y called 
HSBC and was told it allowed people to book a new rate in the 90 days before expiry. 
On that basis, she worked on the premise that she could apply from 3 October 2022. 
On 24 August 2022, HSBC changed its policy, widening the window from 90 to 120 
days; it updated its website immediately, and then in September began writing to 
people telling them about new deals currently available and how to apply for them. 
Ms Y was sent such a letter on 6 September 2022; however, the letter didnt 
expressly say the booking window had widened to 120 days. Ms Y interpreted the 
letter as a general circular that simply told her what rates were currently available, 
but not as telling her she was now eligible to apply for one. 
By the time Ms Y found out she would have been eligible to apply for a new rate in 
early September 2022, during a phone conversation on 21 September 2022, rates 
had gone up. Ms Y took out a new five-year rate, to run from 1 January 2023, but 
then complained that HSBC hadnt done enough to make clear that it had changed 
its eligibility criteria. HSBC rejected the complaint, and when Ms Y referred it to us, 
our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He said HSBC hadnt treated Ms Y 
any differently from other customers in the same situation. Ms Y asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally found - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a different conclusion from the investigators. Im using 
this provisional decision to let the parties know how I am presently intending to 
determine the complaint, so they have the opportunity to comment before I do so. 
This is a case where both sides of the argument has merit. On the one hand, HSBC 
has given Ms Y correct information when she has asked for it, and then made the 
new information available on its website when it changed policy. On the other hand, I 
take Ms Ys point that finding the updated information on the banks website is no 
easy task, and in any event, one would need a reason to go looking for it in the first 
place. Overall, then, the website update isnt enough on its own, and isnt what this 
case turns on. 
HSBC should reasonably have understood that, in a climate of rising interest rates, at 
any given time, many of its customers were asking about access to rates, anxious to 
protect themselves against increasing costs if they could. Those customers needed 
to know, expressly, that HSBC had changed its eligibility policy and made it more 
flexible. 
In essence, anyone who had asked the question and had been told 90 days, needed 
to know it was now 120 days. HSBC would have been on notice that this information 
was important to those particular customers and ought to have made sure they were 
made aware of the change. It could do that either by contacting those customers 
directly, or by making its general communication clear. But HSBC knew it had given 
important information to them, they were relying on what they were told and so it had 
a duty to let them know the situation changed.
Of course, that invites the question of how HSBC should identify those to whom it 
owed this duty. I wouldnt expect it have to trawl through every single record of 
customers whose rates were due to expire within the new window to see whod 
enquired (as Ms Y had done shortly before the change) and who had not. That would 
not be practical. 
Where this case stands or falls, therefore, is with the letter HSBC sent out, which in 
Ms Ys case was on 6 September 2022. What I would expect HSBC to have done is 
to have used that letter to draw the attention of affected borrowers to the policy 
change, and ensure they had the means to understand why theyd received the 
letter. Ms Ys case is that the letter didnt specifically say the window had opened up 
for her; she took it to be general information on current rates from which she had no 
reason to infer the policy had changed. 
In my view, Ms Y is right; the letter didnt do enough to draw her attention to the new 
120-day window that meant she now was eligible to apply for a new rate sooner than 
3 October 2022. Had it done so, Ive no doubt that Ms Y would have responded 
immediately, and secured a five-year fixed rate as soon as she received the 6 
September 2022 letter. 
To remedy this this complaint, HSBC should allow Ms Y the opportunity to substitute 
a comparable five-year rate from those available between 6 and 21 September 2002 
in place of the deal she eventually took out, if that would be beneficial to her. If that 
happens, HSBC will have to refund to Ms Y the overpayments she has made in the 
meantime, along with interest on the refunded amounts. Alternatively, Ms Y can opt 
for any overpayments and interest on overpayments to be applied in reduction of the 
capital balance of the mortgage, without them counting towards any allowance in the 
mortgage contract before an early repayment charge becomes due.Also, as redress for having had to make the higher payments in the interim, I 
consider HSBC should pay Ms Y a suitable amount of compensation. The sum Im 
currently minded to award is £150.
In its response to this provisional decision, Id ask HSBC to provide details of all five-
year fixed rate deals that were available between 6 and 21 September 2022, along 
with details of the five-year interest rate product Ms Y did take out, for comparison 
purposes.
Miss Y has accepted the provisional decision; HSBC has not. It disagreed with my view that 
the letter of 6 September 2022 didnt do enough to let Ms Y know she was eligible to apply 
for a new rate, or that the web page was difficult to find. Therefore, it didnt provide the rate 
information I asked it to include with its response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be changing my decision. However, Ill address HSBCs comments.
I take HSBCs point about the letter containing a link and a QR code that would take the 
reader direct to the relevant page on its website. However, I said in the provisional decision 
that the website update wasnt what the outcome turned on. Ms Y would still have needed a 
reason to click on the link, or scan the QR code. 
Ive looked at the sections HSBC has highlighted from the letter which it says would have let 
Miss Y know she was eligible for a new rate. That might be the case for those who received 
the letter not having been told on the phone that the window was 90 days. But for those who 
had held that conversation, the letter needed to say more, not least because HSBC had no 
easy way of distinguishing those borrowers who had called from those who had not.
When Ms Y accessed the page online, it wasnt because of what the letter said. It was 
because she had by then found out on the phone on 21 September 2022 that she was 
eligible due to the expansion of the window to 120 days.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, by ordering HSBC UK Bank Plc to do the 
following:
allow Ms Y the opportunity to substitute a comparable five-year rate from those available 
between 6 and 21 September 2002 in place of the deal she eventually took out, if that 
would be beneficial to her; 
refund the differential interest Ms Y has incurred each month since 1 January 2023 or 
opt for any overpayments and interest on the overpayments to be applied in reduction of 
the capital balance of the mortgage, without them counting towards any allowance in the 
mortgage contract before an early repayment charge becomes due; 
pay interest on each refunded amount, at 8% simple per annum* from the date of each 
refunded amount was paid to the eventual date of settlement; and
pay Ms Y £150 compensation for her time, trouble and upset.*If HSBC deducts basic rate income tax from the interest element of this award, it should 
supply Ms Y with the relevant tax certificate, so that she can apply to HMRC for a refund if 
her wider circumstances allow.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman