DRN-4143132
The complaint
Mr L complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly closed his bank accounts. 
What happened
I am aware that Mr L had several accounts with Metro and has raised complaints with this 
service about the closure of them. This decision will deal with the closure of Mr Ls sole 
accounts ending 7361, 7035, 7057, 7124 and 7146. Mr Ls complaints regarding his other 
accounts will be addressed separately.
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In August 2022, following a review Metro decided to close Mr Ls accounts. Metro wrote to 
Mr L on 15 August 2022, giving him two months notice that he needed to make alternative 
banking arrangements. 
Mr L complained to Metro about the closure of his accounts and asked Metro to explain why 
it no longer wanted him as a customer and to review its decision to close his accounts. Mr L 
said he suspected Metros decision was based on his involvement with a number of 
companies, some of which were facing legal action, which had been reported in the media.  
In response, Metro didnt provide Mr L with much information. But it told Mr L that following a 
review it had decided Mr L fell outside the banks risk appetite, so it wasnt willing to revise 
its decision to close his accounts. The bank said it hadnt done anything wrong and had 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the accounts when it had reviewed and closed 
Mr Ls accounts.
Mr L wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
said Metro had treated him unfairly based on what had been reported in the media and 
hadnt provided a proper explanation for why it no longer wanted him as a customer. 
He said Metros actions had caused him a great deal of trouble and upset and impacted how 
he manages his finances. He explained that he had to go to the trouble of opening new 
accounts in the UK which didnt offer him the same levels of service as the accounts he held 
with Metro and were more expensive. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She said that Metro hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had closed Mr Ls accounts and had closed them in line with the terms and 
conditions of the accounts. Mr L disagreed. He wants Metro to provide the reasons it closed 
his accounts. He doesnt believe they have acted in line with the terms of the accounts and 
wants Metro to reopen his accounts. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr L feels very strongly about his complaint. Thats clear from whats hes said to 
us and to Metro. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ls frustration and how this matter has impacted him, 
its important to point out that the only thing in question here is whether Metro has done what 
it should have done. And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Banks and other financial businesses are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in 
order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing account 
services to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
In order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations, its not unusual for a financial 
business to periodically review its customers accounts, even if the account holder has been 
a customer for some time. Having looked at all the evidence and information, Im satisfied 
that Metro were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed Mr Ls  
accounts. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
Following a review, banks sometimes decide to close an account. Banks are entitled to 
decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing business with a customer. 
Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to 
continue providing accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial 
decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has the commercial 
freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they shouldnt decline 
to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or unlawful 
discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
Before Metro closes an account, they must do so in way which is fair and complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account. Ive looked at the terms and conditions and they state 
that Metro could close the account by giving at least two months notice. Ive seen the notice 
to close letter that Metro sent Mr L in August 2022, giving him the full notice period, so Im 
satisfied that they have complied with this part.
Ive gone on to consider whether Metros reason for closing the account was fair. In doing 
so, I appreciate that Metro is entitled to set their own policies and part of that will form their 
risk criteria. It is not in my remit to say what policies or risk appetite Metro should have in 
place. I can however, while considering the circumstances of individual complaints, decide 
whether I think customers have been treated fairly.
 
Ive considered carefully what Mr L has said regarding his suspicions about the reasons 
behinds Metros decision. Mr L has explained that he was involved in a number of 
companies which are the subject of court proceedings which has been reported in the 
media. After considering all the available evidence and information I havent seen any 
evidence to show Metro reviewed and closed Mr Ls accounts for an improper reason. 
Theres nothing that Ive seen, that suggests it amounted to anything other than a legitimate 
exercise of its discretion. It follows then that Ive not seen any evidence that would lead me 
to conclude Metro treated Mr L differently because of the court proceedings or news articles. 
The reason Metro gave for closing the accounts is that they were outside the banks risk 
appetite. That in turn means it can choose who it has a customer relationship with. This is a 
decision that I cant interfere with as it is a commercial business decision.I understand of course why Mr L wants to know the exact reasons behind Metros decision, 
other than what hes been previously been told. And I can see that Mr L has asked Metro to 
explain itself on several occasions. I appreciate it cant be pleasant being told that you are 
no longer wanted as a customer. But Metro doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a 
review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr L the reasons behind the 
account review and closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving Mr L detailed information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
require it to do so.
In summary, I understand Mr L will be unhappy with my decision but having reviewed all the 
evidence and circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Metro has acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the accounts and as such I cant conclude that it has treated 
Mr L unfairly when it closed his accounts.  So, I wont be asking Metro to reopen the 
accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman