DRN-3257503
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has refused to refund payments he made to what he 
says was a fraudulent investment firm. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide an overview of the events below.
Mr R came across a promotional email from a firm Ill refer to as M that were offering 
cryptocurrency investment opportunities. After carrying out what he considered satisfactory 
checks he decided to invest and made two debit card payments totalling £853.39. These 
payments were made to two merchants K and R. When Mr R was unable to withdraw his 
funds from his trading account with M he contacted Lloyds and asked for its assistance in 
recovering his funds. Lloyds informed Mr R it was bound by Visas scheme rules and as the 
payments were made to K and R he didnt have any chargeback rights. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response Mr R referred his complaint to our service. Our Investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. In summary he didnt 
think (albeit for different reasons to those given by Lloyds) that Mr Rs chargeback claims 
had a reasonable prospect of success under Visas scheme rules. He was also satisfied that 
Lloyds shouldnt reasonably have done more at the time the payments were processed. 
Mr R disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I cant fairly and reasonably ask Lloyds to 
raise chargeback claims and/or refund the disputed transactions. Ill explain why.  
As Mr R authorised the transactions in question, he is initially presumed liable for the loss 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). I appreciate he didnt 
intend on getting scammed when he agreed to making those payments. But simply being the 
victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle Mr R to a refund. I can only ask Lloyds to 
provide a refund if I can fairly conclude that its actions at the time of processing the 
payments resulted in his loss or if it has treated him unfairly when assisting with the recovery 
of those funds (here that would be its decision not to pursue chargeback claims for the 
disputed transactions).
With that in mind, Ive considered Lloyds duty to protect Mr R against the risk of fraud and 
scams so far as is reasonably possible. I agree with our Investigator that in the context of 
Mr Rs normal spending and account usage, Im satisfied here, that it wouldnt be fair to say 
that the amounts or type of payment (including the merchants the payments were made to) 
should have appeared sufficiently unusual or suspicious to Lloyds such that it ought to have 
intervened and contacted Mr R about the transactions. So I cant fairly say that Lloyds have 
made a mistake or failed to act when processing the payments.
As Im satisfied the payments were authorised and made using Mr Rs debit card, Lloyds 
only option to try to recover the funds was through Visas chargeback scheme. I think at this 
point it would be helpful for me to explain the following: 
- Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  not card issuers 
(here Lloyds). 
- Lloyds is bound by Visas rules.
- There is no right to a chargeback. It is for Lloyds to decide if it has a basis upon 
which it can raise a chargeback claim on behalf of the cardholder (here Mr R). It does 
so by taking into consideration scheme providers rules and its evidential 
requirements to decide if a claim has a reasonable prospect of success.
- A claim raised isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. 
Here, Lloyds didnt raise chargeback claims, as it didnt think it had a basis upon which it 
could do so under Visas scheme rules. The reasoning it provided was that Mr R had not 
paid M directly. It believed the merchants paid were cryptocurrency exchange firms who had 
provided the service of converting Mr Rs funds to cryptocurrency and transferring these to 
the wallet details provided. 
Mr R considers the payments taken by K and R to be fraudulent as M used another 
third party without his consent. Firstly, I agree with our Investigator that its most likely that 
K and R were acting as payment processors for M  not cryptocurrency exchange firms as 
Lloyds have suggested. A payment processers role generally is to manage, oversee and 
process credit and debit card payments for businesses (here that would be M). This is 
common practice and a business choosing to use a payment processor is not illegal or 
fraudulent. 
I understand Mr R would like to pursue every possible avenue to try to recover his money, 
but the chargeback rights Visa gives in relation to investments are very narrow and require 
specific evidence to succeed. Ultimately Mr Rs claim is that M are operating fraudulently. 
But the scheme does not investigate allegations of fraud or provide a dispute resolution 
process for allegations of a scam. 
In these circumstances under Visas scheme the only claim Lloyds couldve raised on Mr Rs 
behalf is if the merchant didnt allow the cardholder to withdraw their available balances. But 
Visas evidential requirements are very specific, and it requires the following evidence  a 
copy of the cardholders investment account showing the date, the withdrawal amount, and 
the available balance at the time the withdrawal request was made. Mr R has not been able 
to provide such evidence. So whilst I accept that Lloyds reasoning for not raising chargeback claims was not correct. 
Given the above, had Lloyds assessed the claims correctly it wouldve asked Mr R for the 
evidence required under Visas scheme rules, which Im satisfied he would not have been 
able to provide. So I think most likely Lloyds would have declined Mr Rs chargeback claims 
on the basis that he does not have a valid claim under Visas scheme rules, and concluded 
that his claims do not have a reasonable prospect of success. So Im not persuaded that in 
these circumstances Lloyds mistakes in assessing Mr Rs claims has hindered his prospects 
of obtaining a refund under Visas chargeback scheme. 
I understand one of the points Mr R has raised is that hed made a payment under the same 
circumstances from an account he holds with another bank. This bank did raise a 
chargeback claim on his behalf and that disputed transaction has been refunded. He 
considers this to be relevant and cant understand why Lloyds wont do the same. He thinks 
this is unfair. Whilst I can see why Mr R might feel this way, Im afraid each claim is decided 
on its own facts and the decision about raising a chargeback claim rests with the respective 
bank. So, even if another bank has provided him with a refund, it doesnt automatically 
entitle him to a refund from Lloyds nor does this alone change the outcome Ive reached in 
this complaint. Further from what I can see the refund received from his other bank resulted 
from the merchant not responding to the chargeback claim in time. I know Mr R would like 
our service to direct Lloyds to raise a chargeback as he believes M is no longer trading. But 
Im afraid I cannot direct Lloyds or find that it shouldve raised a chargeback in the hope that 
the merchant doesnt reply, especially where the required evidence to raise a chargeback 
claim, cant be provided.
And finally, I think the £50 already paid by Lloyds is a fair way to compensate Mr R for the 
incorrect information he was given by Lloyds whilst handling his claim.
So whilst Im sorry to hear about what has happened, I dont think Lloyds need to do more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman