DRN-3917174
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined part of his claim under the theft 
section of his home insurance.
What happened
Mr T got a quote for buildings and contents insurance through a broker and agent acting on 
behalf of QIC via an online comparison website.  As the agent acted on behalf of QIC, the 
underwriter, QIC is responsible for the agents actions.
The comparison site directed Mr T to the policy brand website to complete his purchase.
QIC accepted Mr Ts claim for theft after his home was burgled. However, it declined cover 
for the stolen watch because Mr T had breached the policy endorsement. The endorsement 
required Mr T to have a professional valuation for his watch from within the last three 
years.
Mr T complained. He said the endorsement wasn't brought to his attention when he bought 
the policy, so he didnt think QIC had treated him fairly by declining his claim for the watch.
QIC responded to say that the endorsement was clear in the policy documents, so it didnt 
think it had done anything wrong. Mr T brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. She said the relevant policy documents were 
only a few pages long and the endorsement was clearly detailed. Therefore, our investigator 
thought Mr T shouldve been aware of the condition.
Mr T didnt agree. He remained of the view that QIC shouldve brought the term to his 
attention at the point of sale. As an example, he provided details of his new policy sale to 
show the type of information hed expect to see.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
While the outcome is the same as that proposed by our investigator, Ive relied on additional 
information provided by QIC, so its only fair that Mr T has an opportunity to comment 
further. Ill explain.
Theres no dispute about the circumstances of the claim, or that Mr Ts watch was stolen. 
QIC accepted the overall claim. The issue is that QIC declined cover for the watch because 
Mr T hadnt had it valued in line with the following policy endorsement:
Jewellery item more than £2,000  valuation required
Mr T doesnt think it was fair because the endorsement wasn't brought to his attention during 
the sale. He said QIC had a duty to bring to his attention any significant terms.
Firstly, Ill make it clear that I agree with Mr Ts view of what shouldve happened during the 
sale. He listed the watch as a specific item because of its value, so he could reasonably 
expect that any significant term attached to cover for the watch would be brought to his 
attention when he bought the policy. 
So, I dont think theres a dispute about the fact that an endorsement was set out in the 
policy. Instead, Mr T said it was QICs failure to bring it to his attention which caused him to 
lose out on the claim.
With that in mind, I asked QIC to provide evidence of the process by which Mr T bought his 
policy. QIC confirmed it was via an online comparison site which then directed Mr T to its 
website. QIC provided a screenshot showing the information that was displayed before Mr T 
completed his purchase, the content of which is as follows (the emphasis is mine):
Home insurance endorsements
There are some conditions that apply to your quote, please read these carefully and 
in conjunction with your policy documentation.
Jewellery item more than £2,000  valuation required
If you make a claim for any watch or item of jewellery shown on the schedule with a 
replacement value of £2,000 or more, you must provide a professional UK valuation from 
within the last three years.
We will not pay your claim, or the amount of the claim may be reduced, if you do not 
provide the proof we ask for.
Given that the information presented was about the quote, Im satisfied that the significant 
term was brought to Mr Ts attention before he bought the policy.
Once Mr T bought the policy, the term was clearly stated as an endorsement in his policy 
documents.
So, I agree with Mr T that QIC shouldve brought the significant term to his attention at the 
point of sale. And the evidence indicates that it did. Therefore, its my view that QIC declined 
cover for the watch fairly and in line with the policy endorsement.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr T understood the position regarding the policy term, but he had no recollection of being 
presented with it at the point of sale. He asked for confirmation that the screenshot QIC 
provided of the endorsement was from his transaction rather than current practice.
Further, Mr T didnt think Id addressed his complaint about ambiguous language buried in 
the policy documents. He thought QIC should accept his retrospective valuation.
QIC had nothing further to add regarding the outcome, although it provided responses to 
questions asked following Mr Ts comments.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint for the same 
reasons I gave in my provisional decision. Ill address the new comments now.
This service asked QIC to provide evidence of what Mr T was told when he bought his 
policy. In response, it provided the screenshot of its confirmation about the endorsement that 
applied to the quote  which Mr T has seen  and a copy of the email it sent to him on 
completion of the sale.
I understand Mr T is concerned about whether the information is current practice or whether 
it wouldve been displayed to him at the time. QIC confirmed the date of the quote on the 
comparison site which was the same date he transferred to QICs site to progress the 
purchase. QIC said the endorsement information was provided on transfer to its site. 
Therefore, I have no reason to doubt that QIC presented the information to him at the time, 
and before he bought the policy.
That said, even if QIC hadnt presented the information before the policy sale, it brought the 
endorsement to Mr Ts attention in his new policy documentation, and specifically pointed 
out that a valuation was required.
Mr T said the language QIC used was ambiguous and buried in the policy documents. He 
asks what constitutes a professional UK valuation from within the last three years. 
Ive looked again at what the endorsement says but I cant agree that its ambiguous, or 
buried in the documentation. The endorsement is in the 4-page policy schedule. Page 1 of 
the document shows a table of Mr Ts information, such as name, address, property value, 
etc; page 2 is a summary table of cover for buildings; page 3 is a summary table of cover for 
contents, and page 4 is headed, 
Endorsement(s) that apply to this policy 
Please read the following endorsement(s) carefully and in conjunction with 
your policy wording (emphasis is QICs)
and devoted entirely to documenting three endorsements for his jewellery and security 
requirements. The document is not text-heavy: everything is set out clearly and in a standard 
format.
In respect of Mr Ts comment that the reference to a professional valuation was ambiguous, I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr T asked QIC about its meaning when he took out the 
policy. In fact, his complaint to QIC was that the endorsement wasn't brought to his attention. 
That implies that he hadnt looked at it so, whether or not it was ambiguous, Mr T didnt try to 
have his watch valued because he hadnt read that there was a requirement to do so. 
Overall, Im satisfied that QIC provided the appropriate information Mr T needed to ensure 
that he met the policy terms, and I havent seen any evidence that QIC caused Mr T to lose 
out on the value of his watch. Therefore, its fair and reasonable that QIC declined this 
element of his claim for the reasons it gave, in line with the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman