DRN-3025631
The complaint
Mrs H complains that a mistake made by Lloyds Bank PLC led to a delay in a transfer of 
money to her. This caused her much distress and inconvenience which adversely affected 
her health. 
Mrs H wants compensation of at least £1,000. 
What happened
Mrs H moved to America in 1972. Before she moved, she held an account with Lloyds. As 
the money in the account hadnt been earning interest, Mrs H contacted Lloyds to ask the 
best way to transfer it to her bank in America. Its her retirement money which she now 
needed. Lloyds told her the best way to transfer was by wire transfer.
So, the transfer of £100,000 was actioned on 26 February 2021. Unfortunately, Mrs H didnt 
receive the money as fast as she thought that she would. She made many calls to Lloyds 
from America, and to her own bank in America, to find out what had happened. Mrs H says 
that she would be on the phone for up to 5 hours a day which was a daily occurrence. At one 
point, she and Lloyds were concerned that the money was lost. 
Mrs H eventually found out that the money was being held in a middle bank as Lloyds hadnt 
given a banking code for Mrs Hs bank. The middle bank had a backlog of dealing with such 
issues. They finally returned the money to Lloyds for it to be resent to the right bank account 
for Mrs H. Mrs H received the money in her bank in America on 16 March 2021. 
Mrs H said she has previously had a heart attack and used to suffer violent migraines which 
have come back because of what happened. They have left her with visual impairment and 
slurred speech. Mrs H said she has been very distressed and has suffered a great deal of 
anguish. She doesnt think she will ever get over the distress. 
Lloyds accepted that a mistake had been made by them. They offered compensation of 
£300 for the phone calls that Mrs H made plus £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered by her. Mrs H wasnt happy with this outcome so she came to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and decided that Lloyds offer of £700 was a fair 
outcome. 
Mrs H did not agree with the investigators decision. She feels that Lloyds should pay her 
compensation of at least £1,000.
The complaint has now come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but I think that the compensation of £700 that Lloyds has paid 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I accept that the reason that the transfer of the money was delayed was due to Lloyds 
mistake. I also accept that they werent as reassuring as they could have been when they 
told Mrs H that the money could be lost. This clearly resulted in Mrs H feeling very distressed 
and unwell  this was a significant sum of money and its clear she spent a lot of time and 
trouble trying to find out what had happened. For this, Im sorry. 
These points considered and thinking about our approach to these types of awards, and our 
published guidance, an award of more than £1,000 would exceed the amount that I consider 
would fairly put right the impact here. Let me explain why. I think that, once Lloyds realised 
their mistake, they tried to put things right. Although I can appreciate that the time it took to 
do this seemed like a long time for Mrs H because of the amount of money involved and she 
was worried, it is the case that the funds were with her within 18 days -  I dont think that was 
unduly delayed or excessive.
Ive also considered Mrs Hs health issues and the effect that the potential loss of the money 
had on her. Im afraid that I still think Lloyds acted fairly as it appears to me, after looking 
through their file, that they werent fully aware of all of Mrs Hs longer term health issues. 
Having regard for these points together, I think that compensation of £400 for the distress 
and inconvenience suffered is the right amount. I also think that Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably in paying the costs of £300 for Mrs Hs phone calls. 
Im sorry that this isnt the outcome that Mrs H hoped for. But I hope that the reasons for my 
decision are clear. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think that the compensation of £700 paid by Lloyds Bank Plc 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and nothing further needs to be done by them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Rita Parmar
Ombudsman