DRN-3197543
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the charges that HSBC UK Bank Plc has applied to his overdraft.
What happened
Mr M complaint that the charges HSBC applied to his account in the previous 5 years were 
unfair. He asked HSBC to consider reducing the outstanding balance of his account to 
recognise that he had been charged so much, but he was unhappy with HSBCs response. 
HSBC did not agree that it had done anything wrong, and so Mr M referred his complaint to 
us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and didnt think HSBC had treated 
Mr M unfairly. Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  including the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and 
reasonably when applying overdraft charges - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Ms complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided 
not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
amounts HSBC charged were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the 
costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a 
commercial decision. 
But HSBC wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M if it applied any interest, 
fees and charges to his account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances 
where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that he was 
experiencing financial difficulty. So what I can consider here is whether there were instances 
where HSBC didnt treat Mr M fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr M unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at his 
statements I dont think theres anything that should have given HSBC particular cause 
for concern regarding the conduct of his account until the latter part of 2019. While I 
accept that Mr M was using his overdraft regularly, the amount being credited to Mr Ms 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of him seeing 
a credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, the overdraft was regularly repaid by Mr Ms 
wages or by other credits to the account. 
So there isnt anything which I think ought to have triggered HSBC to review his account 
in more detail, or alerted HSBC to any potential financial difficulty. And so in these 
circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with adding 
the interest, fees and charges it did or that should have prompted HSBC to contact Mr M 
to ask if he needed help.
It was only in June 2019 that Mr Ms account started to deteriorate and the overdrawn 
balance grew. In early 2020 Mr M then contacted HSBC to say that he wanted to reduce 
the overdrawn balance of his account and, ultimately, close his account with HSBC, but 
that he felt it would be fair for HSBC to stop the charges from being applied and refund 
some charges. HSBC refunded around £80 of charges at that time and told Mr M he 
would need to speak to its financial guidance team to discuss a way forward regarding 
the account. Mr M was unwilling to speak to this team though, he wanted all 
correspondence to be in writing.
In March 2020  as a result of the steps HSBC was taking to help customers during the 
pandemic  charges were stopped on Mr Ms account. And from June 2020 onwards 
interest was also no longer applied. During this time HSBC reiterated that it would need 
to speak to Mr M to come to some kind of arrangement about how he could repay the 
balance of the account.
Im satisfied that the steps that HSBC took when Mr Ms contacted it about his account were 
reasonable. It refunded some charges, offered to discuss a way forward regarding the 
account, and ultimately stopped charges and interest so the balance didnt continue to 
increase. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels HSBC should have negotiated with him in writing and should 
have agreed to reduce his balance by refunding some of the charges applied over the 
previous five years. But the charges themselves werent applied unfairly or unreasonably, 
and so I wouldnt expect HSBC to have agreed to that specific request. And I dont think it 
was unreasonable for HSBC to want to have a full and frank discussion with Mr M about his 
financial circumstances so it could agree a way forward regarding the account. 
I know that Mr M didnt want to speak with HSBC on the phone, but I dont think its request 
for him to call to discuss his account was unreasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And in any case, when Mr M and HSBC were unable to reach any agreement, 
HSBC stopped charges on the account, which is what I would expect it to do when it 
becomes clear that an outstanding overdraft balance isnt going to be repaid within a 
reasonable period of time. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr M, but Im satisfied that HSBC didnt 
treat him unfairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman