DRN-2979235
The complaint
Mr H complains about the refurbishment charges Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, trading as Hitachi 
Capital Vehicle Solutions.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result 
our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr H responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. 
oThe BVRLA guidance says that dents shouldnt be bigger than 15mm. The 
inspector has used lined boards to help identify the extent of any damage. Im 
persuaded that the dents to the filler cap and C post are in excess of the 
BVRLA guidance and Hitachi have therefore been fair when making a charge 
for refurbishment of these areas.
oThe guidance says that poor repairs are not acceptable. Photographs of the 
front wing and doors show paint runs/ paint damage. So, I think the charges 
for refurbishment of these areas have been fairly made.
oThe photograph shows the alloy is rusted and the guidance says there should 
be no rust. So, again, I think this is a charge that can be fairly levied.
Whilst I understand Mr H is disappointed that Hitachi havent taken into account the 
mileage on the car when returned, theres no term in the contract that compels 
Hitachi to offset the benefit they will receive from selling the car with reduced mileage 
against the loss they will incur from any damage. So, Im afraid it wouldnt be fair for 
me to say they should do.
Ive considered the charges that have been applied but I dont think the amount being 
charged is excessive and therefore unfair. The charges Hitachi have made for the 
individual areas of damage appear broadly in line with similar charges Ive seen 
raised by their competitors.
Mr H says he wasnt able to complete his own independent inspection to clarify the 
problems existed. I think the contract made it clear that the car would need to be 
returned in good order and the photographs taken at the time of collection show clear 
damage to the car that is beyond fair wear and tear. I dont think it would be fair to 
suggest any other inspection of the car to the same correct standard would have 
disagreed with the inspectors findings.
Whilst some businesses may be prepared to freeze collection activities whilst a 
complaint is being reviewed by this service, we cant insist businesses do that. Whilst 
I understand Mr Hs concerns about Hitachi pursuing the debt I cant say theyve 
been unreasonable to do so.
Mr H has been disappointed with the service hes received from Hitachi and 
especially from the collection agents. Im afraid I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
suggest he should be compensated for that and, whilst I understand he had to wait a 
few days for the car to be collected and this increased his risk, I dont think theres 
evidence that damage was caused during that period or that Mr H suffered any loss 
as a result. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman