DRN-1567542
complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside their mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive first thought about whether Mr and Mrs W knew they had a choice to buy this policy. 
Mr and Mrs W have told us they took out the PPI because they were convinced to buy it by 
the salesperson at Halifax. Mr W says he felt pressured into taking out the policy in case he 
became ill or redundant. Ive thought about this alongside the other information that is 
available. Because of the time thats passed, theres limited paperwork from the time 
Mr and Mrs W applied for the mortgage. But I dont think thats unreasonable given this sale 
took place in 2003, over 17 years ago. I also note that Halifax say the sale followed a 
recommendation  so I think its likely Mr and Mrs W were told this policy would be useful if 
Mr W was off work. With this in mind, while I recognise Mr and Mrs W feels they were 
pressured, I dont think this is most likely based on what Ive seen. I think its more likely that 
they wanted the policy and agreed to buy it.
Halifax recommended Mr and Mrs W buy this policy, and so it needed to check it was right 
for them. Based on what Ive seen, I think it was. Mr W wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and they seem to have had a need for the cover 
based on what theyve said about their circumstances at the time. In particular, although Mr 
and Mrs W had some savings they could have used in an emergency, this policy would have 
made sure their mortgage payments were met for up to 24 months if Mr W couldnt work. 
Mr and Mrs Ws savings were a lot less than Mr Ws annual salary  and this policy 
protected a mortgage, so their home was at risk if they couldnt meet the repayments. It 
would also have meant they could have used their savings for other important expenses at 
what would have been a challenging time.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
could have been. But they chose to take it out  it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems it would have been useful to them if something went wrong. I also think it was 
affordable. So Im not persuaded better information about the PPI would have put them off 
buying the cover.
Ive thought about everything else Mr and Mrs W have said. But these points dont change 
my decision.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax has offered to give back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr and Mrs W.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman