DRN-3396213
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
AutoMoney Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality and that the cars engine had been 
replaced before it was supplied to him.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr A under a hire purchase agreement with AutoMoney that he 
signed in January 2020. The cars engine failed in July 2021 and the car was recovered to a 
garage. It said that the engine wasnt the cars original engine and Mr A says that that 
invalidated the extended warranty that hed bought for the car. He complained to AutoMoney 
the following month and it said that he was 20 months into his agreement and there was no 
evidence to confirm that the dealer was aware of the engine change so it didnt uphold his 
complaint. Mr A wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service and he then 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
inspection report confirmed that the engine replacement had happened and he didnt believe 
that the quality of the car was satisfactory given that the engine wasnt the correct one so he 
thought that Mr A should be able to reject the car. He recommended that AutoMoney should: 
end the agreement and collect the car; refund Mr As deposit of £2,795, all rentals for the 
period since the engine failure, and £216 for the cost of the inspection report (all with 
interest); and pay him £400 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused.
AutoMoney has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that the cars logbook and receipt from the dealer state that the engine type was 
unknown so it wasnt advertised as having a specific engine, Mr A hadnt raised any issues 
about the car with it before the engine failure so its reasonable to expect that the car had 
been fit for purpose during that time; although an engine replacement has occurred, Mr A 
hasnt provided evidence to confirm that it was replaced before the car was supplied to Mr A 
and the engine replacement could have taken place during Mr As ownership of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
AutoMoney, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr A was nearly twelve years old, had been driven for 
68,847 miles and had a price of £9,795;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Mr A in January 2020 and the sales invoice and registration 
document show that the engine number was unknown;
Mr A was able to use the car from January 2020 until July 2021 with only minor 
issues and its mileage was 98,600 when the engine failed so the car had been driven 
for nearly 30,000 miles in that time;
after the engine had failed, a garage identified that the cars engine had been 
replaced which Mr A says invalidated the extended warranty that hed bought for the 
car;
Mr A paid £216 for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in February 
2022 and the inspection report concluded: We would conclude based on the 
evidence found at the time of our inspection that we do consider that the vehicle has 
had an engine replacement, the current engine appears to be a Euro 3 type whereas 
it should from manufacturer be fitted with a Euro 4 engine. Whilst we are unable to 
confirm the age of the engine, the evidence of the plugs for the NOx sensors which 
are fitted to both cylinder heads would support the engine fitted is incorrect for the 
vehicle when manufactured. If this has been a replacement engine as we suspect, 
we would recommend the engine number on the engine block to be checked by the 
manufacturer to further confirm the type of engine fitted is in fact incorrect for the 
vehicle in question;
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr A had replaced the cars engine and I dont 
consider it to be likely that hed have paid for the car to be inspected after the engine 
had failed if hed had the engine replaced;
even if the dealer didnt know that the engine had been replaced, I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the engine was replaced before the car was supplied to Mr A 
and that the engine failure has occurred because the replacement engine is incorrect 
for the car; and
I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A for 
that reason and I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for 
Mr A to be able to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for AutoMoney to end the hire purchase agreement 
and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr A  both at no cost to him. The invoice and 
hire purchase agreement show that Mr A paid a deposit of £2,795 for the car. I find that it 
would also be fair and reasonable for AutoMoney to refund that deposit to Mr A, with 
interest. I also find that it should remove any information about the hire purchase agreement 
that its recorded on Mr As credit file.
Mr A was able to use the car between January 2020, when it was supplied to him, and July 
2021, when the engine failed, and in that time he was able to drive nearly 30,000 miles in the 
car. I find that its fair and reasonable for him to pay for the use that hes had from the car so 
I consider that AutoMoney should keep the monthly payments that hes made under the hire 
purchase agreement for the period before the engine failure but I find that it should refund 
any monthly payments that hes made since then to Mr A, with interest.
Mr A paid £216 for the car to be inspected by the independent expert. I find that AutoMoney 
should reimburse Mr A for that cost, with interest. These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr A. I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for AutoMoney to 
pay him £400 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and I order AutoMoney Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr A  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr A the deposit of £2,795 that he paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mr A the monthly payments that hes made under the hire purchase 
agreement for the period since the cars engine failed in July 2021.
4. Pay £216 to Mr A to reimburse him for the cost of the inspection by the 
independent expert.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr As credit file.
7. Pay £400 to Mr A to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AutoMoney to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 5 above. AutoMoney must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman