DRN-3370534
The complaint
Miss R says the advice given and the arrangements made by Rogate Capital Limited (RCL), 
to transfer her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) into a Family Suntrust Self-invested 
Personal Pension Plan (SIPP) with Axa Wealth was unsuitable.
What happened
Miss R and her long-term partner (Mr Z) sought advice about their pension arrangements in 
2012. Information was gathered from them about their circumstances, objectives and their 
attitude to risk.
I note the fact-find completed by RCL was signed by its adviser on 9 January 2012. It was 
also signed by Mr Z the same day. Most of the details captured relate to his situation. I dont 
know if Miss R was present at the meeting. But she signed the form on 18 January 2012.
The fact-find records that Miss R was 53. She and her partner had a dependent daughter. 
They also lived with two of Mr Zs older children from a former relationship. Miss R wasnt 
working. Household outgoings were recorded as £7,000 per month. But no details were 
captured about monthly income.
Miss R and Mr Z had a family home worth around £2.5 million, with an outstanding mortgage 
at the time of around £1 million. Mr Z was said to have significant capital investments. He 
also had life assurance and protection policies. The fact-find summarised these household 
assets as joint - Miss R disputes this was the case.
Miss R was said to want to retire at 60 and to maximise her income. She was a member of 
an OPS with deferred benefits which shed accrued with a former employer. The normal 
retirement date (NRD) for her scheme was 62. This was her only pension provision.
In terms of their investment risk profile and asset allocation proposals, separate details 
werent recorded for Miss R and Mr Z. The highest risk category was circled by the adviser  
suitable for confident investors. The Leopard Rock fund (hedge and direct investment) was 
indicated, with further details to be provided.
As part of its fact-find exercise, RCL recommended that Miss R transfer her OPS benefits to 
the specialised Family Suntrust SIPP in January 2012. It arranged for her to partially 
complete an application to join the new plan, which she also signed on 18 January 2012.
On 4 May 2012 Miss Rs scheme provider undertook a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) of 
her OPS benefits. It reported these had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around 
£330,000. It also estimated the pension income and tax-free cash (TFC) she would be able 
to access at either age 60 or 62. A spouses pension was provided for in the event of her 
passing. This was set at 50% of what she wouldve received.
Miss Rs objectives for pension planning seem to be best discerned from a passage in RCLs 
suitability letter to her dated 6 July 2012, which states:
it was agreed that the increased flexibility in which the benefits can be paid to your 
beneficiaries in the event of death (i.e. a lump sum) and the manner in which they can be 
paid when you decide to draw a pension was preferable. In addition, you wanted to have 
overall control when investing the pension fund and secure investment in esoteric pension 
funds similar to those selected by [Mr Z].
RCL restated its recommendation for Miss R to transfer her OPS benefits into the Family 
Suntrust SIPP in its suitability letter. Aside from listing in broad terms what investment 
opportunities were available through her new pension plan, no specific investment 
recommendations were made. I understand Miss Rs OPS funds were moved into her SIPP 
on 17 July 2012.
Its important background information to note Miss R separated from Mr Z in November 
2016.
In November 2019 Miss R wrote to RCL complaining about the recommendation shed 
received in 2012 to transfer her pension. She raised several concerns, including that its 
advice had been inappropriate for her. And she said shed been financially disadvantaged by 
what had happened.
RCL acknowledged Miss Rs complaint in December 2019. There were two elements to the 
response it provided  an updated suitability report and a covering letter, both dated 16 
January 2020. The main reason for producing a suitability report appears to have been 
because RCL had uncovered a significant flaw in the advice it provided her in 2012.
RCL said Miss Rs OPS provider had overstated the value of her pension benefits at the 
date of her leaving the scheme and this had fed through to subsequent calculations, 
overstating her projected benefits at retirement. It asserted that the revised information made 
its original recommendation more favourable.
RCL said its advice for Miss R to transfer was suitable. It said she hadnt been financially 
disadvantaged. Amongst other arguments it said she hadnt been reliant on her OPS for her 
retirement income. It also noted the specialist SIPP gave her freedoms that her OPS didnt, 
such as taking benefits early. And that it provided her with better death benefits.
After Miss R had referred her complaint to this Service, RCL also objected to our 
consideration of her case. It said shed brought it outside of the applicable time limits.
The Investigator thought that Miss R had brought her case in time, so he concluded it was 
within our jurisdiction. He went on to consider the merits of her case and upheld it. He didnt 
think RCLs advice for her to transfer her OPS benefits had been suitable.
RCL disputed the Investigators findings and conclusions, in particular it challenged his view 
that Miss R had brought her complaint in time. So her case was passed to me to review and 
for a decision.
Jurisdiction
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.FSMA gives the FCA the power to say what complaints we can and cant consider. The FCA 
has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the FCA Handbook (also known as 
DISP or the DISP rules).
If a business doesnt consent, this Service cant consider a complaint which isnt made within 
specified time limits. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
2. More than:
a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; unless:
3. In the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Miss R is worried shes lost out because of the advice she received from RCL to transfer her 
OPS into the Family Suntrust SIPP in 2012. She doesnt think the advice was appropriate.
Taking the six-year rule first, a complaint is out of time if its referred to our Service more 
than six years after the event complained about. Thats unless the complaint was referred to 
the respondent business within that period and the complainant has a written 
acknowledgement or other record of the complaint having been received.
Miss Rs complaint was raised with RCL in November 2019. It issued a final response to her 
in January 2020. As the advice complained about happened in 2012, her case is out of time 
on the six-year limb of the test.
In respect of the three-year test. I need to decide when Miss R became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, that she had a cause to complain. And having 
established that date, determine whether she brought her complaint within three years of it. 
In making its case to time bar Miss R, RCL identified several points at which it says the three 
year limb of the jurisdiction test bites, meaning her case shouldnt be considered. These 
included that she couldve raised a complaint around:
- July 2012, when she received advice to transfer her pension.
- April-May 2015 when Miss R was considering and then took benefits from her 
pension.
- March-April 2017 when she met with it to discuss future arrangements for her 
pension following the separation from Mr Z.
- When she received annual statements from Phoenix Wealth between 2013 and 
2016, showing her benefits would be considerably less than her OPS wouldve 
provided for.
In responding to my provisional decision, RCLs main arguments centred on the time limits I 
must apply for considering Miss Rs complaint. Ive thought carefully about each of the points 
RCL has raised. But I still disagree with its position. Ill explain why.
Turning to RCLs contention that Miss R shouldve been aware of a problem when it was 
giving her advice. There are two fundamental problems with its position here.Firstly, when considering if Miss R had a cause for complaint, this means thinking about 
whether she had, or ought reasonably to have had, knowledge that there was a problem; 
that she had suffered or may have suffered a loss; and that someone was responsible for 
this problem (and who that was).
If Miss R had been concerned during the advice process, its unlikely she wouldve gone 
ahead with the transfer. Theres no evidence Miss R thought there were problems with the 
service she received from RCL in 2012  indeed she was happy to proceed.
I also think its unfair to expect someone with no knowledge or experience of pensions to 
know she may have been mis-advised about her future pension arrangements at the point of 
sale. Highlighting risks in a suitability report is good practice and what is expected when 
giving financial advice. But this wouldnt necessarily have alerted Miss R she may have been 
badly advised.
RCL says it spoke with Miss R on 28 April 2015 about how TFC could be taken from her 
pension pot. Ive seen a file note from the meeting, which suggests the call was with Mr Z, 
and that the discussion covered his and Miss Rs desire to access benefits from their SIPP. 
This was to reduce debts (meet mortgage payments) and cover other family expenditure.
Interestingly, the file note suggests Mr Z was in the lead and that he relayed some 
communications from Miss R. Its recorded she raised some doubts about the decision to 
transfer her pension. RCL said she should contact one of its advisers and note down any 
concerns so that her mind could be put at rest. RCL says at no point during this process did 
it receive any information or correspondence from Miss R raising concerns.
RCL considers this was a key event which ought reasonably to have given her awareness of 
cause for complaint. It says she raised the initial transfer advice. And that she was taking 
benefits from her pension plan. So, this was the ideal time to ask questions about whether 
the transfer from the OPS had achieved its desired outcomes and how this would compare 
to the benefits that may have been payable under her OPS.
We know that RCL didnt treat what shed said as an expression of dissatisfaction. If that had 
been the case it wouldve needed to have responded as part of its complaints process. And 
Miss R has no recollection of sending any communication on this matter to RCL after the 
phone conversation with Mr Z. No complaint was made.
We dont know the substance of the doubts Miss R raised in 2015 about her pension transfer 
in 2012. We do know the context of the meeting was about accessing pension benefits, so 
perhaps it was related to the transaction at hand? RCL suggested Miss R contact its adviser 
and let him know about any issues, so he could put her mind at rest. Its problematic to read 
too far into a short file note, but I think a fair reading here is that it was trying to give her 
reassurance about what had happened.
Further, Miss R was taking benefits from her pension earlier than possible under her OPS, 
this was recorded by RCL in its suitability letter as something that she wanted to do. It hasnt 
provided telling evidence setting out why this event shouldve given her cause to complain.
In responding to my provisional decision RCL said:
We havent provided any evidence as there was no compelling reason to consider that the 
client was dissatisfied. If this methodology of thinking were to be applied, it would mean that 
whenever a client might be considering taking benefits from a pension fund that had involved 
a transfer of pension rights the adviser would be obliged to ask the client directly whether 
they feel it appropriate to make a complaint.RCL undermines its own argument that Miss R ought to have had cause for complaint when 
she took benefits from her pension in 2015. And I disagree when it says the implication of 
my finding is that whenever a client takes benefits from a pension pot an adviser would be 
obliged to ask whether they wanted to make a complaint about the original transfer. The 
matter I am trying to discern is when Miss R had cause for complaint. And RCL hasnt 
persuaded me the events of April and May 2015 was that point.
Regarding events around March-April 2017, Miss R told us that in making arrangements to 
break away from the SIPP her former partner had led on, RCLs adviser told her about the 
transfer values being achieved from her former OPS, which were substantially in excess of 
what shed received in 2012. She says she was shocked by this information.
RCL has no record of this conversation. But it has subsequently said:
What is more likely is that I told Miss R that final salary pension transfer values are 
closely linked to the value of gilt yields and, therefore, as they go down transfer values go 
up. At the time mentioned (around March-April 2017) gilt yields, linked to interest rates, 
would have been at an all-time low so many people would have seen their transfer values 
soar. Other than that, I could surmise that this comment was mentioned by the other adviser 
that Miss R was working with.
So, RCL acknowledges its possible it alerted Miss R, or another adviser did, to the fact that 
OPS transfer values were much higher subsequent to her transaction.
The Investigator thought the March 2017 meeting Miss R had with RCL was the point at 
which Miss R ought reasonably to have become aware there might have been a problem 
with the transfer of her pension in 2012. In responding to his view RCL said:
At no point during 2017 did [Miss R] make any representation to [RCL] about any concerns 
or issues she may have had. Had [she] made [us] aware that she had cause for complaint 
then we would have dealt with this in accordance with regulatory processes. The fact that 
[Miss R] did not means that this statement should be disregarded as we were not given the 
opportunity to do so.
In April 2017 [Miss Rs] pension rights were transferred to a pension scheme in her name 
only. We assisted in the process and at no point did [she] raise any concerns or issues with 
[RCL] that might have given us cause for us to consider that a complaint may be made. 
We would consider that during 2017 there was ample opportunity for [Miss R] to have raised 
questions or indeed a complaint about our advice, however none was forthcoming.
I understand the point RCL makes. Its frustrated that Miss R didnt make her complaint in 
2017. Shes told us that at the time she was focussed on resolving even more substantial 
matters with HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). While I recognise her point  this wouldnt 
constitute exceptional circumstances and so wouldnt extend the time available to her to 
bring a complaint to this Service.
In responding to my provisional decision RCL said:
This should not be the basis for upholding the time bar issue because this pre-supposes 
that if transfer values were higher that the transfer would have taken place. It also discounts 
the fact that Miss R had already enjoyed the benefits of taking tax-free cash earlier which 
had not been subject to any actuarial reduction or the need to take a significantly reduce 
pension benefit due to early retirement. The fact that transfer values may or may not have 
been higher is purely speculative and there is no evidence provided to prove otherwise.I still think RCL misses the main point here. A customer can bring a complaint against a firm, 
within three years of when they first became aware, or ought reasonably to have become 
aware, of cause for complaint. That cause maybe justified or not. And some of the matters it 
touches are more relevant to the merits of the advice Ill turn to later, such as Miss Rs ability 
to access benefits earlier than she couldve done under her OPS.
Like the Investigator, based on the available evidence, I think theres a strong argument to 
conclude the earliest Miss R had cause for complaint was March 2017 when she says she 
was shocked by what shed been told about transfer values for OPS benefits. On this basis 
the rules this Service operates within say she had to raise a complaint by March 2020.
In July 2017 Miss R was contacted by HMRC about a very substantial potential personal tax 
liability. After seeking professional advice she was able to demonstrate the liability didnt 
arise out of her dealings and interests. And rather than being investigated, she became a 
witness in these matters. The point being, she was alerted to serious problems emanating 
from her pension arrangements. This wouldve been another trigger that shouldve put Miss 
R on the path to discovery about potential problems with the advice she received in 2012 
about her pension transfer.
Finally, RCL refers to a decision made by this Service in 2014 in relation to our jurisdiction 
over a complaint about a pension transfer. It notes the Ombudsman in that case decided we 
couldnt look at the complaint because the customer had received regular statements setting 
out the projected pension from the new arrangements, and that this was considerably less 
than the former scheme provided for. The Ombudsman concluded this was enough to have 
made the customer aware they might have cause for complaint.
RCL said:
Miss R received annual statements from Phoenix Wealth (whilst a member of the Family 
SunTrust Scheme) on 22nd January 2013, 7th March 2014, 6th March 2015 and 9th May 
2016Each of [these] annual statements clearly indicate that the full pension payable (prior 
to her [taking TFC] on 8th May 2015) was lower than the revalued full pension from [her 
OPS].
RCL will know that this Service must review individual cases in light of the specific 
circumstances and facts relevant to each. Nevertheless, RCL makes a reasonable 
challenge, which Ive thought about carefully.
I think its significant that when the Investigator asked RCL why many of its communications 
were with Mr Z, it told him that although it had asked for Miss Rs email address, she hadnt 
provided it. Miss R has confirmed that she had an email address at the time.
Leaving aside the matter of whether or not Miss R received the information about her SIPP, 
having reviewed the statements RCL refers to, Im not persuaded these wouldve provided 
her with sufficient information to have raised her concerns.
I note her pension pot had grown between 2012 to 2016 from around £300,000 (allowing for 
initial fees) to about £340,000. Although not a major return over three years, it was 
significant growth. I cant see this wouldve alerted her to problems with the advice. 
Further, I cant see where RCL provided Miss R with a clear comparison of the pension 
income she couldve expected from her OPS over time, compared with what she might 
secure from her SIPP arrangement. And theres nothing in the SIPP statements that 
wouldve provided such a comparison over time to alert her to any problem either.Ive thought about what information RCL provided to Miss R in its suitability letter on 6 July 
2012. In recommending the transfer it said (bolding was its emphasis):
The FSA have indicated that advisers and their clients should not rely unduly on the 
Critical Yield Figures and should also take into account other aspects. This is why 
when considering the advice and recommendations we only use this as one of the 
factors to consider. Other factors such as your health, existing death benefits, 
investment restrictions etc are taken into account
Ordinarily, the critical yield quoted would suggest that [your OPS] benefits should remain in 
situ but it was agreed that the increased flexibility in which the benefits can be paid to your 
beneficiaries in the event of death (i.e. a lump sum) and the manner in which they can be 
paid when you decide to draw a pension was preferable. In addition, you wanted to have 
overall control when investing the pension fund and secure investment in esoteric pension 
funds similar to those selected by [Mr Z].
Given RCLs assertion here that Miss Rs objectives - for example flexibility around death 
benefits and when her pension benefits could be taken - were paramount in making its 
recommendation to transfer, if this was correct then the matter of the value of her OPS 
pension versus what was delivered through her new arrangements was secondary.
Miss R says she only became aware of cause to complain when she was discussing various 
financial matters with the husband of a close friend in 2019, when they were on holiday. She 
says that he made it clear to her the transfer had been unsuitable. I dont agree with her 
position.
My conclusion is that Miss R ought reasonably to have become aware of potential problems 
with the advice she received in 2017. In particular, when she met with RCL in March of that 
year and says she was shocked by what she was told about the transfer values being 
achieved with her former OPS provider. And certainly by July 2017 when she was put on 
notice by HMRC about serious tax liability issues related to her pension arrangements.
In responding to my provisional conclusion on these matters RCL said:
None of these issues were ever communicated with RCL so it cannot be correct that 
somehow RCL should have been aware of these matters.
Ive no reason to doubt what RCL says here. But it misses the point. Im trying to understand 
when Miss R was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint. 
Thats where our time limit rules bite.
RCL summarised its position on jurisdiction in the following terms:
I still have a problem deciphering the process that FOS has adopted regarding the time 
barring of this case. If this is FOS interpretation of the rules, then it seems credible that the 
3-year rule can never be effectively used. A client will never have enough knowledge to 
decide whether a complaint should or should not be made.
Id simply observe that jurisdiction is a matter of fact. A complaint is either something this 
Service can or cant consider according to the DISP rules. The problem for RCL is that it 
hasnt been able to provide telling evidence which demonstrates Miss R shouldve brought 
her complaint more than three years before she did.
Miss R raised her case with RCL in November 2019 and this was acknowledged by it in 
December 2019. Her complaint was duly made within three years of when she ought 
reasonably to have been aware of cause to raise her concerns, which based on the 
information Ive seen was in 2017.This Service can consider Miss Rs complaint. Ill now move on to review the merits of her 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Miss Rs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by RCL for Miss R. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like RCL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Miss Rs complaint.
At the time of the advice RCL gave Miss R, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in 
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, RCL was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Miss R to be able to 
make an informed decision.
- Give Miss R a copy of the comparison, drawing her attention to the factors that do 
and dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Miss R understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, RCL had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available under 
the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements proposed 
before it advised Miss R on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in January 2013 it issued an industry alert which said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect. The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when 
advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes.. 
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension 
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Although the alert was issued after the advice given to Miss R, it wasnt new guidance; it was 
the regulator re-stating its position.
Did RCL adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think RCL met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.There are several documents relating to RCLs transaction with Miss R that are important to 
my consideration, these include its fact-find, the TVAS report, the SIPP application and the 
suitability letter it produced for her.
The fact-find from January 2012 records that Miss R was 53. She and her partner had a 
dependent daughter. Miss R wasnt working. Household outgoings were recorded as £7,000 
per month. But no details were captured about monthly income.
Miss R and Mr Z had a family home worth around £2.5 million, with an outstanding mortgage 
at the time of around £1 million. Mr Z was said to have capital investments worth around 
£2.75 million and Miss R none. Mr Z was said to have life assurance and protection policies 
with cover of around £3.75 million. Miss R had no cover. Savings werent disclosed. The 
fact-find summarised these household assets as joint - Miss R disputes this was the case. 
Miss R was said to want to retire at 60 and to maximise her income. But no specific income 
targets were established.
The regulatory position set a high bar, which meant that RCL had to be able to clearly 
demonstrate, based on contemporary evidence, that the transfer was in Miss Rs best 
interests. Im not satisfied it managed to do this in the circumstances of this case.
Ive several concerns about the advice process RCL followed with Miss R.
The fact-find conducted by RCL in January 2012 also contained a recommendation that Miss 
R should transfer her OPS funds into a Family SunTrust SIPP with Axa Wealth, which had 
already been established for Mr Z in the previous year. This was prior to receiving a TVAS 
report, which wouldve provided an analysis of her existing pension benefits.
RCL says the recommendation was to look at the viability of transferring Miss Rs OPS 
benefits subject to proper tests  it says it cant be inferred that a recommendation had been 
given without due process.
But there are other examples of where the cart appears to have been placed in front of the 
horse in RCLs process. For example, it arranged for Miss R to sign an application to join the 
new SIPP, which she did on 18 January 2012 (the same day she signed the fact-find).
RCL says information from Miss Rs OPS provider wasnt received until February 2012. And 
that the TVAS report was posted to her on 4 May 2012.
On 8 May Miss R signed another SIPP form  this was a Unanimous agreement, which 
effectively meant that any investment decisions had to be taken by all nominated members 
of the SIPP. On 9 May 2012 RCL sent an email to Mr Z to confirm it had started the process 
of transferring Miss Rs OPS benefits into the SIPP. On 31 May 2012 Miss R signed a 
declaration authorising the transfer of her OPS funds to her new SIPP arrangement.
RCL says all the paperwork wasnt ready for submission to the OPS administrators until 27 
June 2012. It didnt issue its suitability letter to Miss R until 6 July 2012 confirming its 
recommendation from 6 months earlier. 
RCL disputed my finding about the chronology of events. But the matters its raised havent 
altered my overall view of its process. I think by the time Miss R had received the suitability 
reports, wheels had been turning on the transfer of her OPS benefits for some time. I think 
she could reasonably have formed that impression. And yet, it wasnt until this point shed 
have been able to have read in any detail the analysis and information supporting its 
recommendation for her to transfer her funds.Miss Rs objectives for pension planning seem to be best discerned from a passage in RCLs 
suitability letter, which states:
it was agreed that the increased flexibility in which the benefits can be paid to your 
beneficiaries in the event of death (i.e. a lump sum) and the manner in which they can be 
paid when you decide to draw a pension was preferable. In addition, you wanted to have 
overall control when investing the pension fund and secure investment in esoteric pension 
funds similar to those selected by [Mr Z].
Miss Rs objectives dont appear particularly compelling. RCL was in a good position to have 
analysed, tested, challenged and advised Miss R about what was in her best interest for 
retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to provide for 
retirement. And certainly, when moving away from an OPS there need to be compelling 
reasons. Thats not the case here based on the available evidence.
I also find that Miss Rs stated objectives are at odds with some of the responses she gave 
to a pension transfer questionnaire completed on 8 May 2012, as follows:
- The OPS benefits under discussion represented a significant proportion of her 
pension benefits.
- Her dependents would receive significant sums upon her death from other sources 
and so extra death benefits were not an absolute priority.
- Miss R wanted the maximum possible lump sum at retirement. She wanted to retire 
at 60 and understood that this would reduce her benefits.
- Miss R had a moderate risk appetite.
- She had no reason to question the security of her OPS.
- Miss R indicated that she would like to have control of her pension benefits and to 
consolidate these.
Ive already mentioned in my consideration of our jurisdiction in this case, that there were 
weaknesses in RCLs suitability letter. For example, it didnt provide a clear comparison of 
the level of pension income she could expect from the new arrangement compared with her 
OPS. And it has told us that key information in its letter about the critical yield was materially 
incorrect. Further, the actual amount transferred was around £15,000 less than advised 
because the CETV it had originally obtained had expired during the process.
Theres no record of what income Miss R would need in retirement. Ive seen no evidence of 
an attempt by RCL to get to the bottom of this key question. I think this wouldve been 
important to her being able to take an informed view about the transfer of her OPS benefits.
So, RCL hasnt done enough to satisfy me the process it followed was thorough, and 
therefore fair.
From reading the paperwork available, its arguable that RCL was influenced too much in its 
dealings with Miss R, by the interests of Mr Z who was a significant client.
I note that the specialised SIPP had already been established for him, prior to its meeting 
with Miss R. One of the key benefits RCL suggested for the arrangement was to help Mr Z 
manage his pension tax liabilities. The risk assessment process was performed jointly, 
despite it being clear to RCL they had different risk appetites. And, as Ive already 
mentioned, most of its key communications were with him.I note in responding to the Investigator RCL told him:
[Miss R] had confirmed that she had a very limited knowledge of investment markets, their 
charges and risks and was happy for [Mr Z], a sophisticated investor with decades of 
experience with large financial institutions, to help manage their pension investments. The 
Family Suntrust Scheme allowed [them] to do this as all of the assets formed part of a 
pooled fund.
I think the problem here for RCL is that it was providing a service for Miss R. It needed to 
have her interests in mind. It wouldve known the status of the relationship between her and 
Mr Z, they werent married or in a civil partnership, they were in an unmarried partnership. 
The main difference is that those in civil law relationships are recognised and protected by 
UK law while unmarried partnerships are not. Legal protection for civil law partnerships 
offers clear cut guidance and outlines rights relating to things such as inheritance, pensions 
and taxes. Without this framework, legal issues, rights and responsibilities arising from 
common-law relationships are often more difficult to settle.
It was RCLs role to discern what Miss Rs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what it thought she wanted without any critical thinking. And it wasnt 
providing a basic transactional service. It had to use due care and skill. It had to do these 
things because it had to act in her best interests. It hasnt demonstrated that it met these 
obligations.
Turning to the financial case for this transaction. Miss R was a member of an OPS with 
deferred benefits which shed accrued with a former employer between 1981 and 1995. The 
normal retirement date (NRD) for her scheme was 62. She couldve taken her benefits 
earlier, but they would be actuarily reduced. This was her only pension provision.
On 4 May 2012 Miss Rs scheme provider undertook a TVAS of the value of her OPS 
benefits. It found they had a cash equivalent transfer value CETV of around £330,000.
It was estimated that at Miss Rs NRD this would deliver an annual pension of around 
£40,000 or TFC of £190,300 and a reduced pension of about £28,500. Alternatively, if she 
retired early at 60 Miss Rs couldve received an annual pension of around £36,600 or TFC 
of £174,000 and a reduced pension of about £26,100. A spouses pension was provided for 
in the event of Miss Rs passing. This was set at 50% of what she wouldve received.
The TVAS report also detailed the critical yield  the estimated annual return required from 
Miss Rs new pension arrangements to equal the estimated benefits provided by her then 
existing OPS. These ranged from around 15% to nearly 22%, depending on whether she 
took TFC and when she retired.
RCLs advice was given during the period when this Service published 'discount rates' on 
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice, I think they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in Miss Rs case.
Based on the information available to RCL when it gave Miss R the advice, the critical yield it 
was working to was between 15-22%. At this time, the relevant discount rate was 4.4% per 
year for 8 years to retirement.
The comparable growth rates this Service used were based on a typical investment spread 
across shares and bonds. So, its arguable that if Miss R had a high appetite for risk, the investment portfolio selected in that case mightve had an outside chance of big returns. But 
even then this wouldve been unlikely to bridge the gap here. The transfer was not financially 
viable.
In terms of risk profile and asset allocation, in the fact-find from January 2012 RCL seems to 
have assessed Mr Z and Miss R jointly. The Leopard Rock funds (hedge and direct 
investment) was indicated as a destination for her OPS pension funds, with further details to 
be provided. RCL also said one of her objectives was to be able to invest in the same 
esoteric pension funds as Mr Z.
RCL restated its recommendation for Miss R to transfer her OPS benefits into the Family 
SunTrust SIPP in its suitability letter in July 2012. Aside from listing in broad terms what 
investment opportunities were available through her new pension plan, no specific 
investment recommendations were made.
In responding to my provisional decision on this point RCL said:
Our email dated 9th May 2012 clearly stated that Miss Rs transfer payment would be 
allocated to the Family SunTrust scheme bank account pending investment instructions. All 
member assets are aggregated for the purposes of investment within the Family SunTrust 
with a common and unanimously agreed investment approach.
Clearly, this common investment strategy may not match the investment strategy a member 
would choose if they were investing on their own. This could mean their share of the pooled 
fund is exposed to a different level of risk than if they invested independently. The value of 
the pooled fund may be lower than it would have been if it had followed the members own 
investment strategy.
I understand the points RCL makes here. Unfortunately for it, I think it reinforces my 
concerns about what happened to Miss R. RCL had to understand how Miss Rs OPS funds 
would be invested in the SIPP. That was a regulatory requirement. It effectively abdicated its 
responsibility here.
Further, RCL noted she would be investing in funds like those favoured by Mr Z. But as it 
said in the suitability letter, these were likely to be obscure and only understood or intended 
to be understood by a small number of people with specialist knowledge. It knew this wasnt 
right for Miss R who was inexperienced in pension and investment matters. And it knew she 
only had a moderate appetite for risk.
More generally on risk, Im not satisfied that Miss R had significant capacity for loss. Her 
OPS was her only pension provision, and she was only 6-8 years away from retiring. Ive 
seen no evidence she couldve relied on a share of Mr Zs investment portfolio. Ive already 
dealt with matters relating to the status of their relationship.
And I cant see that Miss R was properly informed that by moving away from her OPS 
scheme and using the funds to invest, she was moving from a situation where her former 
employer was bearing the risks related to the provision of her retirement income to one 
where she was taking on that risk.
Based on RCLs own analysis in 2012 the move of Miss Rs OPS benefits would significantly 
erode value. While RCL acknowledged that ordinarily these return requirements would 
suggest that her OPS membership should be retained, it went on to reason why it was right 
for her to transfer based on her objectives. Ive already set out the weaknesses in that 
argument.Following receipt of Miss Rs complaint, RCL informed her in 2020 that her OPS provider 
had overstated the value of her pension benefits at the date of her leaving the scheme when 
it undertook the original analysis in 2012. This had fed through to subsequent calculations, 
overstating her projected benefits at retirement and the critical yield figures it used in its 
original suitability letter.
RCL recalculated the critical yield figures. These were based on Miss R retiring at 62 and 
either selecting a joint or single annuity and deciding whether to take TFC. The results 
ranged between 5.7-8.1%, substantially lower than indicated in its original report.
But RCL noted that it hadnt been able to replicate certain elements of the TVAS from 2012, 
such as annuity interest rates and inflation indices, and that these would have an impact on 
its underlying calculations. But it asserted:
Given [Miss R was] prepared to invest in high risk investments with your then partner's 
guidance and knowledge the stated critical yields would not seem unsuitable.
I disagree. Theres no evidence Miss R had a high attitude to risk. And RCL has 
acknowledged its 2020 remodelling of assumptions is not a like-for-like exercise with that 
completed in 2012. And the remodelling of benefits its performed are not a like-for-like 
comparison of the benefits Miss R couldve received from her OPS.
Leaving aside the effect of the fees and charges Miss R incurred under her SIPP, and even 
allowing for a moderate risk appetite, returns required from her pension arrangement 
wouldve been a stretch to match what she couldve achieved at much lower risk through her 
OPS.
As the regulator made clear at the time, RCL needed to be able to demonstrate based on 
contemporaneous evidence in 2012 that the transfer of Miss Rs OPS benefits was clearly in 
her best interests. Its failed to do this.
Theres a note on RCLs file which shows that Miss R rang it on 10 July 2012 to discuss the 
suitability letter. The adviser indicates he explained to her it would be preferable to leave her 
OPS benefits where they were given the critical yield position. But the note records she 
wanted to take TFC early without having to take an income.
The file note also records Miss R thought Mr Z would achieve decent growth from his 
Leopard Rock funds as he had a lot of experience in these matters. The adviser also 
mentioned to Miss R that the reallocation of investment returns possible from Mr Z to her 
pension plan should help her position.
RCL hasnt provided a call recording of its conversation with Miss R. But whatever was 
discussed and in whatever terms, it didnt deal effectively with this interaction. And so I dont 
put much weight on it. Ill explain why.
The call to RCL was initiated by Miss R to discuss the suitability letter. The question is was 
RCL changing its recommendation during the conversation? I dont think so  otherwise it 
wouldve issued something formal, rather than just keeping a brief file note. I think its more 
likely than not it was playing back to her the benefits of transferring it had set out in its letter. 
RCL had the option of making clear in a suitability letter that it didnt recommend the transfer 
of Miss Rs OPS. Then if shed wanted to proceed it couldve initiated an insistent client 
process. It chose not to do this.Further, in the short file note its clear RCL was also giving Miss R some reassurance about 
its advice. At least in part, concerning the reallocation of investment returns to her pension 
pot.
Finally, Im grateful to Miss R for the openness she has shown in talking to the Investigator 
about her case. I know it was difficult for her to revisit some of her experiences. In particular, 
she told us about the extent to which Mr Z had influence over her. I need to consider what 
shes told the Service and what if any bearing this should have on the outcome of my 
decision.
When Miss R brought her complaint to this Service she mentioned she was suspicious the 
whole transfer had been driven by Mr Z. She told us about his high profile roles in financial 
services. And she told us about his influence over her, to the extent he could be controlling.
Im mindful that I dont have testimony from Mr Z about these matters. And unlike a court, 
this Service cant join third parties to complaints or compel other parties to provide evidence. 
Nevertheless, I need to think about whether Miss Rs relationship with Mr Z was such that, 
irrespective of the advice RCL had given her shed have gone ahead with the pension 
transfer anyway.
When the Investigator explored this matter with Miss R she was straight-forward in saying it 
was difficult to answer a hypothetical question several years after the event. But she did tell 
us about other events when shed had to assert her own financial interests in the 
relationship. In particular, in 2016 when shed insisted with their solicitors an agreement 
which made clear she was entitled to 50% of their housing assets.
On balance, Ive decided its more likely than not that had RCL given Miss R an explicit 
recommendation not to proceed with the transfer of her OPS benefits, I dont think shed 
have gone ahead. Given the stakes and the fact that her and her partners financial advisers 
were recommending against such a move, I think shed have accepted the professional 
advice, irrespective of Mr Zs sentiments.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Miss Rs OPS benefits could sensibly be regarded 
as fair to her. As such I think RCL failed to meet the regulatory requirements when providing 
her with advice and making the arrangements. So, taking all the circumstances of the case 
into account, its reasonable to uphold this complaint against RCL and for it to put things 
right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Miss Rs case. So, she needs to be returned to the position she wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold Rogate Capital Limited responsible for.
If RCL had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Miss R wouldve transferred her OPS 
benefits, into a SIPP. And she wouldnt have suffered the financial loss shes facing. I think 
its most likely she wouldve left her pension where it had been.
So Rogate Capital Limited needs to do the following.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Rogate Capital Limited should pay Miss R the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that RCL pays Miss R the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. RCL doesnt have to do what 
I recommend. Its unlikely that Miss R can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. She may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
I consider Miss R wouldve remained in her former OPS. Rogate Capital Limited should 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as 
updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Miss Rs acceptance of the decision.
RCL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Miss Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. In order to do this Miss R will need to cooperate with RCL to enable it to 
approach DWP for this information, which is likely to require her written authority.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Miss Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed 
to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Miss R within 90 days of the date 
RCL receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes RCL to 
pay Miss R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Further informationSome examples of how calculations should be carried out are available on our website 
under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'
Distress and inconvenience
In addition, I consider that Rogate Capital Limited should pay Miss R compensation for 
distress and inconvenience of £300. This is in recognition of the failings Ive identified and 
the impact these have had on her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Miss Rs complaint. As such, I require 
Rogate Capital Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman