DRN-3134324
The complaint
Mr D complains Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) has treated him 
unfairly when dealing with his claim on his motor insurance policy. He says hes been 
caused financial loss, distress and inconvenience. 
Any reference to Markerstudy, includes its agents. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr D took out a motor insurance policy with Markerstudy for around 
£570 for the year. In January 2020, Mr D was involved in an accident. He says he was 
driving into a parking space when the driver of the car next to him opened their door into his 
car and caused damage to it. So he made a claim on his insurance policy. 
A few days later, Mr D sent Markerstudy photos of the damage to his car which show 
scratches and dents to his door and under his wing mirror. Markerstudy accepted the claim 
as non-fault on this evidence as it thought the damage shown in the photos was consistent 
with Mr Ds version of events. After sending the photos to the third party, they disputed 
liability  they said their car door was already open and Mr D drove into it. 
Between around February 2020 and July 2020, Markerstudy chased the third party for 
evidence to support what they said had happened but they didnt receive a response. In 
July 2020, Markerstudy let Mr D know it was continuing to hold the third party liable. 
The third party made a claim in court and although Markerstudy had evidence to dispute the 
claim, its accepted it caused delays which ultimately led to the court finding in the third 
partys favour. Due to the likely cost of appealing the decision, Markerstudy settled the claim. 
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr D made a complaint around June 2021. Markerstudy 
agreed it had acted in error and caused delays. So it agreed to record the incident as a non-
fault claim and amend Mr Ds no claims discount. It also offered him £200 as compensation 
to make up for what had gone wrong. Markerstudy has also told us if Mr D proceeds with his 
claim for repairs on his car now, he wouldnt be charged the usual excess that should apply.
Mr D wasnt happy with Markerstudys response so asked our service to look into things. He 
said in particular what had happened had caused him a great deal of upset and stress. He 
had to leave his car unrepaired and he had to keep chasing Markerstudy for updates. 
Markerstudy gave us correspondence to show it had offered to arrange for repairs to Mr Ds 
car in January 2020 shortly after the incident and chased him when it found he hadnt yet 
had his car repaired around five months later. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She thought Markerstudy had done enough 
to put things right  and it was Mr Ds choice not to have his car repaired. Mr D didnt agree. 
He said he was waiting for Markerstudy to arrange for an engineer to assess the damage to 
his car to support his claim before getting it repaired. And because it delayed arranging that, 
he couldnt get his car fixed. As the case wasnt resolved, its been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D feels very strongly about his complaint so I know hell be disappointed but Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Markerstudy accepts Mr Ds claim against the third party failed because of its actions and 
the delay it caused in providing information to its solicitors. So I dont think theres a question 
over whether it made an error here. But what is outstanding for me to decide is what impact 
this had on Mr D and whether Markerstudy has already done enough to put things right. 
If things had gone as they shouldve, although not guaranteed, its possible Mr Ds claim 
wouldve been covered and recorded as non-fault. This means it wouldnt have affected his 
no claims discount and his car wouldve been repaired. And any excess he mightve needed 
to pay couldve been recovered from the third party. 
Whilst Markerstudys actions means the third partys claim was successful in court, in this 
case, Im satisfied its offered to put Mr D in the position he wouldve likely been in if things 
hadnt gone wrong. It has offered to record his claim as non-fault; reinstate his no claims 
discount; cover the cost of repairs to his car as a result of the accident; and waive any 
excess hed normally need to pay. Its also offered him £200 for the trouble and upset hes 
been through.
I understand Mr D doesnt think this is enough. Hes pointed to the significant upset, stress 
and inconvenience hes suffered as a result of whats happened. In particular, he says hes 
been left with a damaged car which hes been embarrassed by and was unable to trade in. 
And hes said hes repeatedly had to chase Markerstudy for updates and answers about 
what was happening. So he thinks it should pay more in compensation. But I dont agree. 
Ive looked very carefully through the internal notes and correspondence Markerstudy has 
provided. And I can see it put Mr D in touch with its repairer immediately after he claimed on 
his policy. When it later discovered Mr D hadnt put in a claim for the repairs it got in touch to 
prompt him. So Im satisfied it gave him the opportunity to get his car repaired. 
In Markerstudys internal notes, it says Mr D was waiting for the third party to admit fault 
before getting the repairs done. But hes now explained to us he was waiting for an engineer 
to assess the damage to use as evidence against the third party if needed before getting the 
car repaired. Either way, I think it was Mr Ds choice to delay getting his car repaired  and it 
wasnt something either Markerstudy required him to do or was necessary to his claim as 
Markerstudy was happy to pursue a non-fault claim on the evidence hed already provided. 
Mr Ds also complained Markerstudy caused delays to his claim being resolved and didnt 
communicate with him. But I can see from the correspondence weve been given it regularly 
contacted him to let him know what was happening. And Im satisfied much of the delay was 
caused by liability being disputed by the third party and the claim being pursued in court. I 
can also see there were extended periods of time when Markerstudy was chasing the third 
party for evidence to support their version of events but didnt receive a reply. 
So overall, Im satisfied the offer of £200 Markerstudy already made to compensate Mr D is 
enough to make up for the trouble and upset hes been through. And I dont think it needs to 
do anything more than its already offered to settle his claim.My final decision
Mr final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman