DRN-2431712
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy about a change in fee structure introduced by London House Exchange 
Limited (trading as Property Partner) on his crowdfunding account. He says the fee structure 
should stay the same as when he first invested and not be changed in such as a way as to 
decimate his dividends and make the investment totally unattractive.
What happened
Mr K began investing through a crowdfunding account with Property Partner in February 
2016. The account facilitates him investing in shares of properties held within special 
purpose vehicles (SPV).
In July 2019, Property Partner wrote to its customers, including Mr K to explain a change in 
its fee structure. It explained it was introducing a new Assets Under Management (AUM) fee. 
It told customers:
- from 5 August 2019, an AUM fee based on the equity value of each of part of the 
property investments value that is owned by clients would apply; 
- an AUM was the most common and important fee across the asset management 
industry, and was essential that it implement this;
- it was a significant change for its customers and had made some related changes as 
a result. This included, any shares owned on or before 15 July 2019 that a client sells 
on the resale market before 5 February 2020, will automatically receive a rebate of 
the AUM fee that has been paid on those shares sold.
In August 2019 Mr K made a complaint to Property Partner about the newly introduced fees. 
Property Partner responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
- the new fee structure enables the business to become sustainable and 
protect/increase the capital value of our clients investments;
- had it not applied the AUM fee to clients existing investment holdings, Property 
Partner would not realise the revenue required to continue in business;
- clients have until 5 February 2020 to sell their investments on the resale market and 
have the AUM fee refunded in full.  
Mr K wasnt happy with the response, so he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In short, 
he said:
- Property Partners terms and conditions did allow it to make amendments, such as 
introducing the new charges; 
- only a court could say whether the change was legally able to include this term- but 
we look at what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances;
- the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance on the fairness of variation clauses 
in financial services consumer contracts, is a useful resource to help in looking at 
whether Property Partner acted fairly in using the clause to introduce the new fees;
- Property Partner had provided sufficient reasons and information to explain why the 
charge was introduced;
- There was provision for a five-year exit process in the properties Mr K invested in. 
This involves shareholders in a property voting whether to attempt to sell at a market 
value, with the net proceeds from any resulting sale are distributed to investors. But 
he didnt think this meant there was a guarantee that the terms and fees would stay 
fixed for five years. And, this five year exit mechanism was still available to Mr K;  
- there was evidence to say Mr K was able to exit the contract because he was able to 
sell on the secondary market, albeit likely at a loss, dependent on what buyers were 
willing to pay. And Mr K was able receive a full rebate of any new fees paid provided 
this was done within six months of the fees being introduced;
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, he said
- the part of the terms and conditions Property Partner have relied on to change the 
fee structure is a very weak statement and there is a conceptual difference between 
'updating terms' and fundamentally changing them. Any reasonable person reading 
those terms and conditions would conclude that the fees would remain the same at 
least for the initial five-year period of their investment;
- in respect of the ability to exit the investment via the secondary market - the value of 
the investments on the secondary market was significantly reduced as a result of the 
new fee structure. And, even if investors decided to sell on the secondary market, 
there is no guarantee that there would be a buyer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks complaint centres around the introduction of a new fee by Property Partner. He was 
given notification in July 2019 that an Assets Under Management (AUM) fee would apply 
from 5 August. This essentially meant Mr K would be paying a fee on the equity value of 
shares he owned through the platform. The result of which was his monthly dividend 
distributions would be reduced. Property Partner acknowledged this was a significant 
change for its clients and put a provision in place to refund any AUM fee that has been paid 
on shares that a customer sold on its secondary market before 5 February 2020. And at the 
same time Property Partner updated its terms and conditions to include the AUM fee. 
Property Partner has provided our service with information regarding its considerations,
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. This 
included whether its terms allowed it to vary the fees charges, the notice given and whether 
customers were required to accept the new terms. 
Firstly, Ive considered the terms and conditions Property Partner has sought to rely on to 
introduce the new fees. Ive reviewed the terms that Property Partner say were applicable to 
Mr Ks account prior to the notification of the AUM  they contain the following term:
14.2 We may update these investor terms and conditions from time to time to reflect any
changes in law or for any other reason. If we update these terms and conditions, we will 
inform you as soon as practical whether by email or an alternative method such as uploading 
to the Website, and (by your continued use of the Website) you will be deemed to have 
agreed to the updated terms and conditions. You will still be bound by the previous investor terms and conditions that you have, or deemed to have, agreed to. If there is a conflict 
between any versions of the investor terms and conditions to which you have agreed, or 
deemed to have agreed to, the most recent version shall take precedence unless it is 
expressly stated otherwise.
Property Partner says the inclusion of this term allows it to make changes to the fees 
charged to customers. I understand the point Mr K makes about the extent of how this term 
has been applied by Property Partner in this scenario. I appreciate this is a broad term, but 
Im satisfied it does support that Property Partner may vary its terms  even within the initial 
five-year period of the investment. It did still need to consider the impact of any changes it 
makes on its customers though. Mr K thinks its unfair for new charges to be implemented 
that he didnt originally sign up for. Its not for me to decide whether this term is fair or not  
that is something only a court can decide. But as a regulated financial business Property 
Partner is under an obligation to treat its customers fairly. And the obligation I am under is to 
consider what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances  which includes having 
consideration for the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
In December 2018, the FCA published guidance that outlines the factors financial services 
firms should consider under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 when drafting and reviewing 
variation terms in their consumer contracts. This is relevant guidance to help me decide 
whether Property Partner has treated Mr K in a fair and reasonable way when it introduced 
an AUM fee.  
Ive considered whether the introduction of the fee provides a fair balance between the 
legitimate interest of the Property Partner and Mr Ks best interests. Property Partner says it 
had been experiencing difficult market conditions since mid-2016. It says the new fee 
structure enables it to become sustainable, so that it can protect and increase the capital 
value of its clients investments. It also says had it not applied the AUM fee to clients 
holdings, Property Partner would not have realised the revenue required to continue in 
business. Effectively, it is saying that it believed without making these changes there was a 
risk of loss of capital to consumers  which would be more detrimental than a new fee. 
Within the FCA guidance it says ..a variation term may indirectly serve the consumers 
interests in circumstances where other restrictions on the firm mean that the ability to flex 
rates fairly on existing products enables the firm to continue to exist and the customer to 
continue to receive the product/service in question.
So, Ive thought about this in the context of this complaint. As part of our investigation, 
Property Partner has provided further information to this service to support the arguments it 
put forward to justify the need for a new fee. It says this information is commercially 
sensitive. Im able to accept information in confidence and Im satisfied its appropriate to do 
so here.
Im satisfied from the information Property Partner has provided to this service, that it has 
made a reasonable justification for needing to introduce a new fee - and it took into account 
the needs of its customers when doing so. Its impossible for it to know exactly what 
consequences of different courses of action were. But Im persuaded it was reasonable for 
Property Partner to conclude flexing rates fairly on existing products meant it could 
continue to provide their customers, including Mr K, with the product or service they were 
now charging differently for. Ultimately, I think it was reasonable for them to conclude it was 
in all their clients interests to be able to carry on operating largely as it was and providing 
that same service. Im persuaded by the evidence provided that it wouldnt have been likely 
to be able to do so without introducing this fee. And Ive borne in mind the FCA guidance when concluding overall that Property Partner has complied with the principles and treated 
Mr K fairly by taking the decision to introduce a new fee. 
Ive also considered whether Mr K was provided with a freedom to exit if he didnt accept the 
new terms. The FCAs guidance says firms should consider a consumers right to terminate 
the contract before or shortly after any variation takes effect and whether they would be able 
to exercise the right in practice. Within the guidance it says:
firms should consider the consumers freedom to exit the contract if they do not accept 
the variation, and how they can actually do so. This should include the financial and practical 
barriers in the contractual terms which may prevent them from doing so. Examples of 
barriers could be exit charges or requiring the consumer to give a long period of notice.
Property Partner says Mr K could exit the through selling his investment on the resale 
market it provided. It says this allowed Mr K ability sell down his investments and terminate 
his contract  and close his account. I also note that it agreed to rebate any AUM fee paid for 
investments sold within six months of its introduction. 
Mr K says the introduction of the fee caused the value of the investments on the resale 
market to significantly reduced So, even if investors decided to sell on the resale market, 
there is no guarantee that there would be a buyer. Property Partner say there was a drop in 
trading prices on the resale market immediately following the announcement, but all shares 
traded on its resale market have been at a price determined by individual willing buyers and 
willing sellers. So, where clients have sold at a loss immediately after the announcement, 
that was entirely at a price of their choosing.
Ive considered the arguments put forward from both parties to decide whether Mr K has 
been treated fairly in this respect. There was an active resale market made available  and 
also an ability to receive a rebate of the new fees if sold within six months. So, it is difficult to 
say Mr K couldnt exit the contract if he didnt want to accept the new terms. But I do 
appreciate Mr Ks points about the negative impact on prices the initial announcement 
caused. And Property Partner does admit this impact. Im not persuaded the pricing 
fluctuations on the resale market is sufficient to say Mr K has been treated unfairly. The 
nature of a secondary market does mean the availability to trade will depend on the demand. 
A variety of factors will determine the price. While the introduction of a new fee will be a 
factor, I conscious that this isnt the only factor affecting price and things change overtime. A 
six-month window was also given to receive a rebate on the AUM fee, so this meant Mr K 
wasnt in a position where he needed to sell his shares immediately.  I appreciate Mr K takes 
a different view, but Im satisfied that Property Partner did provide him with the ability exit the 
contract if he didnt accept the new terms.   
For the reasons provided above, I dont think Mr K has been treated unfairly in the 
circumstances, so I wont be asking Property Partner to do anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman