DRN-3272743
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited gave her unsuitable advice to 
transfer the deferred benefits of an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal 
pension in 2009. She says she will be worse off in retirement as a result. 
What happened
In 2009 Miss B met with Lighthouse for advice about her pension. They discussed her 
personal circumstances during a fact find. In summary this recorded the following about 
Miss B;
She was 45 years old, divorced with two adult children.
She had an income of around £14,000 and savings of £1,000.
She lived in her £120,000 home with a £40,000 mortgage.
She had a life assurance policy. 
She had deferred benefits in an OPS but no other pensions were mentioned.
She had concerns over the funding status of her OPS and the lack of death benefits. 
She also wanted the flexibility of earlier retirement options if possible. 
Miss B also completed a questionnaire to assess her attitude to investment risk. 
Lighthouse recorded her as having a cautious to moderate attitude to investment risk.
Lighthouse also produced a report which showed the critical yield  the amount by which 
Miss Bs new pension would need to grow by each year to match (not better) the benefits 
she was giving up in the OPS. The document showed Miss B OPS would provide an 
estimated income of £9,675.74 per year at age 65. The report suggested the critical yield 
required would be between 8.6% and 10.2% depending on the product it was transferred in 
to.  
In July 2009 Lighthouse sent Miss B a recommendation report. In summary it set out 
Miss Bs objectives as having;
The flexibility of keeping retirement options open for as long as possible.
The ability to provide death benefits for her dependants.
The ability to benefit from any growth on her investments.
The flexibility to diversify or switch her investment dependant on circumstances. 
The option of drawing benefits in a flexible way. 
Lighthouse noted that, due to Miss Bs more cautious attitude to investment risk, it wouldnt 
recommend the transfer to go ahead on commercial grounds. However, based on Miss Bs 
other objectives they recommended she transfer her OPS benefits into a personal pension.
Miss B followed Lighthouses recommendation and transferred the benefits of her OPS to a 
personal pension.
In 2020, Miss B complained to Lighthouse. She said shed heard from a former colleague 
whos transfer value of their deferred benefits from the previous OPS was around £200,000 
at that time. And Miss Bs pension was only valued at around £70,000. So, she thought 
shed been badly advised to transfer her benefits when she did.
In their response, Lighthouse said Miss B had made her complaint too late. They said she 
needed to have complained within six years of the transfer, or three years since she became 
aware, or ought to have become aware, she had cause to complain. And they thought, as 
Miss B had later transferred her pension into a new plan in 2016, she ought reasonably to 
have known then that she had cause to complain. 
Miss B was unhappy with Lighthouses response and so brought her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator first concluded that Miss B had made her complaint in time. 
An ombudsman also agreed. The investigator then looked into the merits of the complaint. 
He concluded that the reasons Lighthouse recorded to justify the transfer didnt demonstrate 
that it was in Miss Bs best interests to do so. He thought they should have recommended 
she stay in her OPS, and had they done so Miss B would be in a financially better position 
now. So, he asked Lighthouse to put Miss B back into the position she would have been in, 
had she not transferred. 
Lighthouse disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the case has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An ombudsman has already considered whether this complaint was made within the time 
limits our service must consider. To confirm, for the same reasons weve already given, I 
agree that it was.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant laws and 
regulations as well as the regulators rules, guidance and standards. Where appropriate I 
also consider what was good industry practice at the time of the advice.
What the regulator had said?
As a regulated firm, Lighthouse had many rules and principles that they needed to adhere to 
when providing advice to Miss B. Many of these were found in the regulators handbook 
under the conduct of businesses (COBS) and principles (PRIN)
The most relevant rules to this complaint are;
COBS 2.1 says a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
their clients best interests.
COBS 9.2 says a firm needs to obtain the necessary information regarding their clients knowledge and experience in the investment field, financial situation and 
objectives.
 PRIN 6 says a firm must pay due regard to their customers interests and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 9 says a firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice.
The regulator also set out specific guidance for businesses advising on pension transfers 
from an OPS. This was found in COBS 19.1.6. It said;
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best
interests. 
So, Lighthouse needed to start from a position of thinking the transfer was unlikely to be 
suitable. If they recommended the transfer they needed to show, using contemporary 
evidence, that it was in Miss Bs best interests to do so. 
Did Lighthouse follow the regulators guidance?
I dont think they did. Ill explain why. 
In its recommendation report, Lighthouse conclude that it would be difficult to recommend 
the transfer on commercial grounds. They say the critical yield was 10.2% and it would be 
very difficult to achieve that bearing in mind Miss Bs cautious/moderate attitude to 
investment risk. And I agree thats an accurate assessment. It was very clear from the outset 
that Miss B would be financially worse off by transferring. 
While Lighthouse went on to give other reasons as to why the transfer met Miss Bs 
objectives, I dont think they did enough to assess the level of income Miss B required in 
retirement and how transferring her pension would achieve that. 
I say that because, according to the fact find, this was Miss Bs sole pension. She had 
minimal savings and no other income provisions in retirement. While Miss B was only 45 and 
a way off from retirement, it was Lighthouses role to ensure they truly understood Miss Bs 
financial situation and objectives in retirement. And I think they failed to do that in the 
recommendation report. 
Lighthouse failed to point out that the purpose of a pension is to provide an income in 
retirement, and while Miss B may have had other objectives, she needed to consider how 
she was going to provide for herself in retirement.
In the recommendation part of their report Lighthouse said providing the company remains 
solvent you are likely to be as well off staying in the existing scheme as moving.But that 
statement was misleading. Lighthouses own analysis showed it was likely Miss B would be 
far worse off in retirement by transferring. I dont think Lighthouse gave enough prominence 
and explanation of the reduced income Miss B was likely to face. The OPS would have 
provided an estimated annual income of £9,675.74 per year at age 65. But by transferring, 
Lighthouse estimated Miss B would receive an income of £4170 per year - less than half of 
what her OPS would have provided. With such a large deficit, Lighthouse needed to show that achieving Miss Bs other objectives far outweighed the likelihood that shed be worse off 
in retirement. 
Lighthouse recorded several reasons why Miss B wanted to transfer. So, Ive considered 
whether the transfer met those objectives, and if overall, Lighthouse demonstrated it was in 
Miss Bs best interest to transfer. 
Flexibility of retirement options and choice of investments.
The recommendation report suggests Miss B was concerned that the OPS didnt allow for 
early retirement or control of the investments. While I imagine Miss B may have been 
enticed by being able to access her benefits early, she was still 10 years away from being 
able to access any benefits at all. 
Miss B didnt seem to have any need for a flexible income in retirement and Lighthouse 
havent demonstrated why is wasnt in Miss Bs interest to have a guaranteed, regular 
income. As she was so far from being able to access her benefits, a pension transfer could 
have been revisited again in the future, should a flexible income have been required. 
It was Lighthouses role not just to say how the transfer would achieve Miss Bs objectives 
but to analyse how realistic they were and how they could be achieved. I dont think 
Lighthouse did that. 
There was no analysis of Miss Bs likely income needs in retirement or how feasible taking 
early retirement was likely to be. Theres no evidence Miss B was knowledgeable or 
experienced in investments and so I dont think Lighthouse evidenced Miss B had a need for 
flexibility of investments either. She was likely to need to seek, and pay for, on-going advice 
with her investments.  
Death benefits
Lighthouse say Miss B was keen to transfer as her OPS scheme as the death benefits it 
provided werent as good as she could achieve with a personal pension. The 
recommendation report said if Miss B was to pass way when in receipt of her OPS, there 
was a 50% dependants pension payable to her spouse or the remainder of any pension due 
in the first 5 years. In deferment the OPS also provided a spouses pension or lump sum of 
twice the contributions made if no spouses pension was paid. On the other hand, Lighthouse 
said on transfer the personal pension would have a lump sum payable of its fund value  
being around £51,000 at the time. 
Lighthouse failed to point out that when Miss B started drawing on her pension, the value of 
the death benefits would start to decrease. And as there was no guarantee the funds 
wouldnt run out, there may be no funds to pass on at all. 
Lighthouse seem to put a lot of weight on the death benefits the pension could provide. 
When looking at fund choices, they recommended a fund with a guaranteed death benefit 
which had a three-year guarantee built into it. But Miss B was only 45 years old. And was 
described as being in good health. So, it was very unlikely she would pass away within the 
time period of the guarantee.
While the OPS may not have provided benefits for her children, it wasnt clear why this was 
required. Miss Bs children were already adults and likely to be financially independent 
before she passed away. If Miss B had a specific objective of providing a lump sum to her 
children after her passing, Lighthouse could have considered changing or increasing the life 
assurance policy she already had in place. Lighthouse didnt include an estimated life expectancy for Miss B, but there was no reason to 
think shed pass away before drawing on her benefits. And as Ive said, the main purpose of 
the pension wasnt to provide death benefits. Miss B still needed to draw an income from it 
for many years to come. I dont think Lighthouse have provided sufficient evidence to show 
that it was in Miss Bs best interest to transfer her pension based on an objective of providing 
death benefits for her children. 
Concerns over funding of her OPS
Lighthouse say Miss B was concerned about the funding of the OPS and noted that the 
latest valuation of the scheme showed a 12% deficit. But Lighthouse went on to say that the 
valuation was from 2005. And the scheme was making contributions each year to make up 
for the shortfall. It said by 2007 there was only a small deficit. But there was also protection 
in place in the form of the pension protection fund (PPF) which could protect up to 100% of 
the pensions value (or 90% for those not yet at retirement age). So, Miss B had some strong 
protection, even if the scheme did fail.  
In the recommendation report, the critical yield required to match the OPS benefits even if 
the PPF was invoked was 9.18%. The report noted that this was based on a different 
personal pension to what they were recommending Miss B. Their recommended personal 
pension had higher fees, so the critical yield was likely to be higher than 9.18%. In their 
summary Lighthouse said if the scheme did fall back on the pension protection fund, the 
critical yield is lower so there is a greater chance you would be better off on transfer.
I think this statement, whilst true, was misleading. I say that because, Miss Bs 
cautious/moderate attitude to risk meant that even at the lower critical yield of 9.18%, it was 
still highly unlikely she would achieve that to out-perform the OPS even if it entered the PPF.  
While Miss B might have had concerns about the funding of her OPS, I think Lighthouse 
could have done more to reduce those fears. And they havent evidenced why it was in 
Miss Bs interest to transfer her OPS benefits due to this objective as even under the PPF, it 
was likely Miss B would be financially worse off in retirement by transferring. 
Summary
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lighthouse have clearly demonstrated, based on 
contemporary evidence, that it was in Miss Bs best interest to transfer her pension. 
They failed to demonstrate how she could secure an income which met her needs in 
retirement  which is the main purpose of a pension. They also failed to demonstrate how 
Miss Bs other objectives outweighed the need for such an income. And so, I dont think 
Lighthouse met their obligations to act in Miss Bs best interests.
Lighthouse should have recommended that Miss B remain in her OPS for the reasons Ive 
explained. Had they done so; I think its likely Miss B would have remained in the OPS. 
I therefore hold Lighthouse responsible for any losses Miss B will likely incur because of their 
unsatisfactory advice. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Lighthouse must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Miss Bs acceptance of the decision.
Lighthouse may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Miss Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Bs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Miss Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Miss B within 90 days of the date 
Lighthouse receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Lighthouse to pay Miss B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000 plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000 I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Lighthouse to pay Miss B the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000 I additionally require 
Lighthouse to pay Miss B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000 I only require Lighthouse to pay 
Miss B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Lighthouse pays Miss B the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance to be paid to Miss B.
If Miss B accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Lighthouse. My 
recommendation is not binding on Lighthouse. Further, its unlikely that Miss B can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
In addition to the above, if the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000 I also 
require Lighthouse to pay Miss B £250 for the upset theyve caused. I say that because its 
clear Miss B has been caused distress from believing her pension provisions have been 
substantially eroded by Lighthouses recommendation. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited should 
compensate Miss B as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman