DRN-3429529
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that One2One Brokers Ltd (One2One) mis-sold her business 
interruption insurance policy. 
Mr H was involved in buying the policy and has helped Mrs H in bringing this complaint. 
However, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of Mrs H. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs H bought a business protection insurance policy through One2One. She 
discussed the proposal with One2One on the phone and said she was told that she had 
£75,000 of cover for interruption to her business, including interruption due to disease.
Mrs H claimed on her policy after her business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. The insurer turned down Mrs Hs claim as it said 
the circumstances of her claim werent covered by the policy. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs H complained to our service. She thought the policy had been mis-
sold by One2One as it hadnt provided the cover shed been told it would. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he 
didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. 
Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mrs Hs business. However, I wont be requiring One2One to do anything further. 
Ill explain why.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy, a firm 
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy which is consistent 
with them. As this was an advised sale, One2One needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the suitability of its advice, as well as having a general duty to provide information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
I understand that Mrs H had a conversation with One2One on the phone in advance of 
buying the policy in 2019. One2One hasnt been able to provide me with a copy of the call 
due to the time thats passed, so Ive reached a decision based on what I think is most likely. 
Mrs H said One2One told her, during the sales call, that the policy provided £75,000 cover 
for business interruption and covered losses caused by disease. This level of cover is 
reflected in the Statement of Demands and Needs which says:
This policy meets your standard need for cover to replace loss of profits as a 
result of total or partial inability to trade following an insured claim up to £75,000 
for a maximum period of 12 months.
The Policy Schedule sets out that cover for business interruption is £75,000. Although the 
Summary Document shows a sub-limit of £50,000 for closure, the information on the Policy 
Schedule is consistent with what Mrs H says she was told. Ive also looked at the policy and 
can see it covers business interruption as a result of closure or restrictions placed on        
Mrs Hs premises due a notifiable disease occurring at her business premises. As the cover 
provided by the policy is consistent with what Mrs H says she was told in the phone call, I 
think its likely she was told that the policy would cover business interruption due to disease.
I understand that the insurer told Mrs H that her claim wasnt covered as she hadnt closed 
due to a case of Covid-19 at her premises. However, given the wording in the policy I think it 
was reasonable for One2One to say that the policy covered business interruption as a result 
of diseases. It may be that One2One wasnt specific in explaining that the disease needed to 
occur at the premises in order to trigger cover. But even if this was the case, and I thought 
One2One should have been clearer, in order to require One2One to do anything further, Id 
need to be persuaded that Mrs H would have done something differently if shed known the 
disease needed to occur at the premises. 
Given the nature of Mrs Hs business I can understand that she would most likely have 
wanted some cover for diseases. However, the Statement of Demands and Needs doesnt 
indicate that a wider cover for diseases was something that was particularly relevant to    
Mrs Hs business and I havent seen anything to persuade me its likely that she would have 
sought a more extensive level of cover, in April 2019, if One2One had been clear that cover 
was only triggered if there was a notifiable disease at her premises. 
Ive noted that the welcome pack One2One sent to Mrs H in April 2019 doesnt appear to 
include a full copy of the policy wording, so I dont think One2One provided clear information. 
However, while I accept that Mrs H would have read the policy if shed been provided with 
the full policy wording, again, Im not persuaded that she would have bought a different 
policy at that time, for the reasons set out above. 
Overall, while I think it could have provided clearer information, Im not persuaded that 
One2One mis-sold Mrs Hs policy or caused her a financial loss. I recognise this isnt the 
outcome Mrs H was hoping for but, having considered the matter very carefully, Im not 
going to require One2One to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman