DRN-3552683
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, was 
irresponsible when it allowed him to open a credit card account, and that it sent his debt to a 
third party debt collector in retaliation when he raised a complaint.
What happened
Mr M applied online for a credit card with Tesco Bank on 21 August 2017. His application 
was successful, and he was given a credit limit of £4,900. 
In August 2019, Mr M contacted Tesco Bank to let it know he was experiencing financial 
difficulties due to some health issues he was having. Tesco Bank agreed to place a 30 day 
hold on the account, with the possibility of extending this to a further 60 days if it received 
medical documentation. It also brought his account into the care of the customer support 
team in light of Mr Ms health issues.
On 10 January 2020, the account was removed from the customer support team as they had 
received no further contact from Mr M. It also sent a default notice to Mr Ms address 
explaining it would have to default the account if it did not receive payment within 28 days. 
Mr M called Tesco Bank on 14 January to explain that he was awaiting further medical tests 
and hadnt been in contact due to ill health. It therefore brought his account back into the 
customer support team and it again asked Mr M to provide details of his income and 
expenditure so they could agree a repayment plan. 
On 13 February, Tesco Bank sent Mr M a letter explaining it was terminating his account and 
applying a default to his credit file as it hadnt received any further contact from him. Despite 
some phone calls from Mr M to Tesco Bank and a number of letters from Tesco Bank to    
Mr M asking for details of his income and expenditure so it could arrange a suitable 
repayment plan, Mr M never sent one in. The last contact both parties had with each other is 
when Mr M telephoned Tesco Bank in September 2020 and said he would forward details of 
his budget plan, but Tesco Bank never received this. 
Mr M then raised a complaint with Tesco Bank in March 2021. He explained that at the time 
he applied for the credit card, he had multiple other credit cards and unsecured personal 
loans and was only maintaining minimum payments on these. He felt Tesco Bank had failed 
in their duties to carry out sufficient checks and if it had have done, it would have seen he 
had a number of other financial commitments and that the lending was irresponsible. He 
explained that he was being treated for anxiety and depression and he may be on the autism 
spectrum and felt this may have impacted his ability to make logical and sensible decisions 
when borrowing money. 
In response, Tesco Bank explained that it considered information held with credit referencing 
agencies when it processed his credit card application, as well as the information Mr M 
provided himself. Having done so, it was happy to approve the application and Mr M signed 
to agree to the terms and conditions of the account. And it felt it had done everything it could 
to help Mr M once he made it known he was struggling with his mental health and could not 
meet his repayments. It also explained it had moved his account to a third-party debt 
collector and they would be in touch to organize a suitable repayment vehicle. 
Mr M remained unhappy with this and referred his complaint to our service. The investigator 
looked into the complaint and felt that Tesco Bank had not done proportionate checks when 
Mr M applied for his credit card. And they felt that if it had have done, it would have seen that 
the additional borrowing of £4,900 on the credit card was not sustainable. However, they felt 
that the way in which Tesco Bank had treated Mr M once he was in financial difficulties was 
fair. The investigator therefore only upheld the irresponsible lending aspect of Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Tesco Bank did not agree with this and gave some further information around how they 
completed their affordability assessment when Mr M applied for the credit card. The case 
was passed to another investigator for a review, who asked Mr M for more information 
around his other bank accounts and income from his business. Having reviewed everything, 
the investigator felt that while Tesco Bank did not do proportionate checks when assessing    
Mr Ms credit card application, if it had have done, it would have found that the additional 
borrowing was affordable for Mr M. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr M was unhappy with this and still felt that due to the amount of borrowing he had with 
other creditors, Tesco Bank should have been aware that his financial commitments were 
unsustainable in the long term. 
As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms complaint is two-fold. Its firstly about Tesco Banks decision to grant him the credit 
card account with a £4,900 limit, which he thinks was irresponsible. And secondly how 
Tesco Bank has treated him since he started experiencing financial difficulties in August 
2019. 
Ive firstly considered the irresponsible lending aspect of the complaint.  Mr M applied for the 
credit card online, meaning there was no human interaction with Tesco Bank when he did 
so. Ive firstly considered if Tesco Bank carried out checks that were proportionate to the 
borrowing Mr M was applying for. 
From that Ive seen, Tesco Bank had information from the form Mr M completed online, as 
well as information it received from credit referencing agencies. On this, Mr M listed his net 
monthly income as £2,000. It also showed his mortgage payments as £80 and his monthly 
loan repayments as £38. When compared to information on his credit file showing his 
outstanding mortgage and total loan debt, I think it was clear these figures were much lower 
than they should be. And I think this should have raised questions around whether Mr M was 
able to afford the monthly repayments if he utilized all the balance. 
Because of this, I think Tesco Bank should have carried out additional checks to make sure 
Mr Ms income and expenditure were correct. 
So I think Tesco Bank did not carry out enough checks to make sure the borrowing was 
affordable to Mr M. So now Ive considered if Tesco Bank would still have reasonably 
granted Mr M the credit limit of £4,900 if it had. Mr M was self-employed at the time of the application. Looking at his statements, I can see his income was sporadic and hes told us 
that he would often receive cash for work, so it isnt easy to see what his total monthly 
income was each month. Mr M has told us he averaged around £2,000 net per month, and I 
think this sounds about right having looked over his statements in the months before and 
after he took out the credit card. 
Mr Ms mortgage payment was around £382 per month. The amount he spent on paying his 
debts to creditors varied in the months before and after he applied for the credit card. But the 
most he spent in one month was £850. This means that after Mr M paid for his housing and 
debts each month, there was £1,232 remaining for bills, food, travel and the cost of the 
Tesco Bank credit card. In addition to this, Mr M had never made a late payment on any of 
his loans, credit cards or mortgage account, some of which hed had for over ten years. And 
despite having several credit cards, he was only utilizing around a third of the limit on these, 
so he appeared to be a responsible borrower who was able to maintain his accounts. 
Its important to note that Mr M continued to maintain timely monthly payments across all his 
accounts until May 2019 at the earliest, with the majority of initial missed payments occurring 
in July 2019. This supports that the lending here was affordable, where he was able to 
maintain payments to it for around two years. 
It was only in May 2019 that Mr M started to struggle across all his accounts, not just the one 
he held with Tesco Bank. This appears to coincide with Mr M experiencing mental health 
issues, which he contacted Tesco Bank about in August 2019. So, I think its more likely his 
financial difficulties stemmed from a change in his circumstances, as opposed to the lending 
being unaffordable at the time he took out the credit card in August 2017. 
I appreciate Mr M has said that he thinks his ability to make logical and sensible decisions 
around borrowing could have been affected by his potential autism. Ive thought about this 
carefully; Mr M has said he made Tesco Bank aware of his mental health issues and 
possible autism when he contacted them in August 2019. So, Tesco Bank wasnt aware of 
any potential issues when it made the decision to lend to him in 2017. Because of this, I 
dont think its reasonable to expect Tesco Bank to have been able to consider this as a 
factor when it granted Mr M the credit card account. 
Because of the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the irresponsible lending aspect of this 
complaint.
Ill now consider how Tesco Bank treated Mr M once he made it aware he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. Ive already set out a timeline of what occurred in the background 
section of the decision, so I wont go over this again now. 
Having carefully considered everything available to me, I think Tesco Bank has been 
sympathetic and positive to Mr M at all stages of his journey with it from August 2019 
onwards. It placed a hold on his account when requested and clearly let him know what it 
needed from him to move forward and agree a repayment plan. 
When Mr M let it know he was experiencing mental health issues, it brought his account into 
the customer service team and only removed it from the team when Mr M didnt get back to it 
with the information it needed. And when Mr M didnt contact Tesco Bank, it gave clear 
notice that it would apply a default to his account if it didnt receive payment, which I think 
was fair in the circumstances. 
It applied a default correctly in a timely manner, which I think was the only reasonable way 
forward for both parties. I know thatll likely have a serious impact on Mr Ms credit file and 
further applications for borrowing, but its an accurate reflection of what happened with the account. Itll also have resulted in interest and charges being stopped, allowing for Mr M to 
repay only whats owing  without it increasing.
I acknowledge that Mr M is unhappy his debt has been passed to a third-party debt collector, 
but its important to note that Tesco Bank has not sold the debt on. It has instructed the third 
party to collect the debt on its behalf. Considering Mr M had not responded to their requests 
for income and expenditure, I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Tesco Bank has agreed that it will bring Mr Ms debt back in house, considering his 
circumstances, but only if certain requirements are met and I think this is a reasonable 
approach. It has asked for assurance that Mr M will contact it to go over his income and 
expenditure so it can arrange a suitable repayment plan and that Mr M stick to this 
agreement. Mr M should now contact Tesco Bank to discuss his debt and work out a way 
forward for both parties, but this decision brings an end to our services involvement with this 
complaint.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman