DRN-3473312
Complaint
Ms M has complained about loans Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to her. She says the right checks werent carried out and if they had been the loan 
wouldnt have been approved.
Background
Ms M also has a compliant about a credit card which 118 118 Money provided to her but that 
complaint is being looked at separately.
118 118 Money provided Ms M with a loan for £3,750.00 in December 2021. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £166.17. One of our adjudicators reviewed 
what Ms M and 118 118 Money had told us. And she thought that 118 118 Money hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Ms M unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Ms Ms 
complaint be upheld. Ms M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ms complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms M could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money provided Ms M with a loan for £3,750.00 in December 2021. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 36 instalments of £116.17. 118 118 Money says it agreed to Ms Ms 
application after she provided details of her monthly income and some information on her 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
and all of this information showed Ms M could comfortably make the repayments she was 
committing to. On the other hand, Ms M has said she was in financial difficulty and if 118 118 
Money had checked her bank statements it would have seen why this was the case.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms M and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 118 118 Money has provided a record of the results of its 
credit searches. 118 118 Money having carried out credit checks shows that it didnt simply 
rely on what Ms M said and that it took some steps to check at least some of the information 
she provided in her application. 118 118 Money searches appear to show that Ms Ms 
existing commitments were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit 
searches, Ms Ms debt total at the time of the applications was also reasonable in 
comparison to her income and they appeared to be relatively well managed. And there isnt 
anything else obvious in the information gathered which leads me to think that further checks 
would have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Ms Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained. Equally I accept that if 
118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks Ms M appears to be saying it should have 
 such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it may 
have seen why Ms M says it shouldnt have lent to her and reached a different decision. 
But the key here is that 118 118 Money wasnt providing Ms M with a mortgage. It was 
providing an unsecured loan for a much smaller sum and it was right at the start of a lending 
relationship with Ms M. Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the 
lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have extended into the level of checks Ms M is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Ms M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Ms M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Ms M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman