DRN-4093828
The complaint
E complains about delays by Lloyds Bank PLC following an application to open a business 
bank account.
 
What happened
On 13 March 2022 Es director, Mr S, applied for a business account with Lloyds. Lloyds has 
explained it needed certified documents to complete the application process and sent Mr S 
notification of what he needed to provide. The documents were uploaded to Lloyds online 
system on 16 May 2022 but rejected when the application was processed. 
Mr S submitted documents on Es behalf again in June 2022 but, again, they were rejected 
by Lloyds. In August 2022 Mr S again submitted documents to Lloyds but it later confirmed 
the verification documents supplied in his name couldnt be used as they were from a bank 
account within the Lloyds Banking Group. Mr S was able to submit acceptable documents to 
Lloyds and his account was opened on 20 September 2022. 
Mr S had complained to Lloyds about the delays and lack of progress. Mr S explains he was 
promised his application would be treated as urgent but little progress was made. Lloyds 
issued a final response on 21 September 2022 and upheld Es complaint, awarding £40 
compensation for the delay. 
An investigator at this service looked at Es complaint. We asked Lloyds to submit its case 
file. Within the case submission, Lloyds said it had taken the opportunity to review E 
complaint again and wanted to make an increased offer of £300 to resolve the complaint. 
Lloyds also gave a more detailed explanation concerning the cause of the delay and 
explained that whilst the documents Mr S submitted werent acceptable for account opening 
purposes, no one had told him so he could make other arrangements. 
The investigator thought Lloyds offer was a fair way to resolve Es complaint. On Es behalf, 
Mr S asked to appeal. Mr S said E was a start-up company and that he had a projected 
turnover of £75,000 a month with a net profit of £7,500 a month. Mr S explained that 
because of the delay in opening a business account, E had been unable to earn the 
expected income and that it had suffered a serious financial loss. Mr S also explained hed 
had to cancel plans for a business trip abroad which had led to further losses. As Mr S asked 
to appeal Es complaint, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
All parties agree that there were delays in opening Es business account. Lloyds says it aims 
to open an account within six weeks of receiving all the relevant information. I can see that in 
March 2022 Lloyds contacted Mr S on Es behalf and asked him to submit verification 
documents. The first attempt to submit those documents was on 17 May 2022 and, had 
everything gone smoothly, Lloyds says Es account wouldve been opened around six weeks 
later. That means the earliest point Lloyds wouldve been able to open an account for E was 
around 28 June 2022. 
Its clear that something went wrong at Lloyds as despite submitting what Mr S believed 
were acceptable documents, the application wasnt approved. I agree that Lloyds ought to 
have told Mr S exactly what was wrong with the documents hed submitted on 17 May 2022 
instead of responding with a generic message. Im satisfied that, had it done so, the account 
wouldve been opened sooner. 
I need to decide how to resolve Es complaint and whether the existing offer of £300 is fair. 
Mr S has told us E had a projected monthly income of £75,000 and net profit of £7,500. I 
understand Es ability to trade was likely impacted by Lloyds delays. But whilst Mr S has told 
us about Es projections, Ive also looked at the business bank statements from September 
2022 onwards. The statements dont show revenue in line with the projections Mr S has told 
us about. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent been persuaded the evidence available 
supports a further award to cover the losses requested. 
Ive read and considered all the available evidence and paid particular attention to what Mr S 
has told us about the nature of Es losses. Whilst I agree there were unreasonable delays 
when processing Es business bank account application, Im satisfied a payment of £300 for 
the inconvenience caused is a fair way to resolve its complaint. As Ive said above, I havent 
found grounds to award further compensation in this case.. 
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay E £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman