DRN-3822230
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the customer service they received from Barclays Bank Plc 
(Barclays) after they asked it to extend the term of their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have an interest only mortgage with Barclays that ended in January 2020. 
Mr M says he and Mrs M intended to repay the mortgage using the proceeds of sale from 
another property thats located outside of the UK (the repayment vehicle). Mr M says that in 
2019 Barclays agreed to give them a 12 month mortgage extension to give them time to go 
to the relevant country and sell the repayment vehicle. However, Mr M says he wasnt able 
to sell it as a result of covid-19 travel restrictions and because the UK government advised 
against all travel to the relevant country for British and dual nationals.
Mr M says that in September 2021 he put forward a proposal for repayment of the Barclays 
mortgage. But Barclays didnt accept it or tell him the reason for its decision. He complains 
that Barclays havent helped him find a solution or acknowledged the efforts he has made to 
update it and keep up with his monthly repayments. So he feels that he hasnt been treated 
fairly or professionally. He thinks he should have been offered a mortgage extension to give 
him the time he needs to sell the property outside of the UK. 
Barclays said it didnt do anything wrong.
Our investigator looked into what happened. However, he didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. He said Barclays had complied with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys coronavirus guidance by allowing Mr and Mrs M to delay repaying their mortgage 
in full until October 2021. However, he understood why it didnt agree to Mr Ms proposal. He 
said the UK government has advised against all travel to the country where the repayment 
vehicle is located for British and dual nationals, and theres no guarantee when that advice 
will be lifted. So he didnt think it would be in Mr and Mrs Ms best interests to extend the 
mortgage until the situation changed. He said their finances could deteriorate in that time, 
and theyd be paying more interest payments.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigator. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. Mr M said the main issue for him wasnt Barclays decision to decline his proposal. It 
was the fact that Barclays didnt help or co-operate with him, especially from summer 2021 
onwards. He says that our investigator didnt consider his point that while Barclays notified 
him about the recent interest rate changes it didnt say how much his monthly repayments 
were. Mr M also said that Barclays didnt follow its own complaint procedure and timeline 
and never responded to his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr M has been clear that hes mostly unhappy about Barclays actions from summer 2021 
onwards. The nub of his complaint is that Barclays hasnt done more to help him and Mrs M 
find a solution that allows them to keep the mortgaged property  their family home  while 
they wait until theyre in a position to sell their repayment vehicle. He says that since 
September 2021, he has been in constant and regular contact with Barclays  he has had 
numerous phone calls and sent various emails and letters to Barclays but he hasnt had 
specific answer to specific questions and suggestions.
I dont underestimate Mr and Mrs Ms strength of feeling about this matter. I appreciate that 
they dont think that Barclays has worked with them constructively to suggest a viable 
solution that works for them and Barclays. I appreciate how frustrated they are by that and 
what an impact selling the mortgaged property will have on their family. However, I can see 
from Barclays notes of its contact with Mr M that it has had numerous discussions with Mr M 
about his finances. So I dont think its fair to say that Barclays hasnt engaged with him 
about his circumstances and proposals to extend the mortgage. 
Ultimately Barclays isnt required to agree to come up with a solution that enables Mr and 
Mrs M to live in the mortgaged property until Mr M is in a position to travel to the relevant 
county and sell the repayment vehicle. As our investigator said, its not clear when the 
advice to travel to the relevant country will change, or how long it will take him to sell the 
relevant property when that happens. So I dont think Barclays acted unfairly when it 
declined to extend the mortgage until Mr M is in a position to sell the relevant property. 
In January 2022 Mr M asked for a two year extension to begin when restrictions on travel to 
that country are lifted. Even if the restrictions were to be lifted today, that would effectively 
mean that Mr M wants the Barclays mortgage to be extended until spring 2025  more than 
five years after the mortgage term expired in January 2020. I can understand why Barclays 
is unwilling to agree to that. Although Mr and Mrs M feel strongly that such an extension 
would be in their best interests, its likely that they will still need to sell the mortgaged 
property if they are unable to sell their repayment vehicle within the extension period. Given 
the nature of the repayment vehicle (a commercial property) I think theres a risk that such a 
sale would take time. So I can understand why Barclays is unwilling to wait years for that to 
happen. Much could change in that period of time, and theres also a risk that Mr and Mrs 
Ms finances could deteriorate.
Mr M complains about Barclays handling of this complaint and that it hasnt given him 
specific answers to specific questions and suggestions. Again I appreciate how frustrated Mr 
M has been by that. I think that Barclays could have handled his complaint better. For 
example, I cant see that it sent him its final response. However, I think that overall Barclays 
has considered Mr Ms proposals as I would expect it to do.
Mr M has also complained that while Barclays notified him about the recent interest rate 
changes it didnt say how much his monthly repayments were. Ive considered the letters 
Barclays has sent Mr M and can see that in October 2022 it told him that his monthly 
payments will be £174.85 until the outstanding balance of his mortgage is paid off in full. So I 
think it has been clear with him about that.
I understand that Mr M and Mrs M remain frustrated that Barclays hasnt answered all their 
questions or said that they can extend their mortgage until theyve sold their repayment 
vehicle. So I appreciate that they are likely to be unhappy with my decision. However, taking 
this matter as a whole and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Barclays have acted 
unfairly towards them. So I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman