DRN-1606614
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service provided to him by Green Wheels LLP trading as 
PCO Rentals (PCO Rentals), in particular its decision to cancel his vehicle hire agreement 
(agreement) and its decision to seek recovery of £246 from him. 
What happened
Mr K entered into an agreement with PCO Rentals on 27 March 2018 for a car at a weekly 
rental of £224.
Mr Ks account was initially managed on one accounting system before being switched to a 
second accounting system in mid-2018. As a result Mr K has two accounts on two systems, 
accounts that I will call A (on the first system) and B (on the second system).  
On 12 June 2019 A had a debit balance of £448 outstanding on it, made up of two unpaid 
weekly rentals of £224 (24 April 2018 and 19 June 2018) and B had a debit balance of £224 
outstanding on it, made up of one unpaid weekly rental of £224 (11 June 2019).
Between 7 August 2018 and 12 June 2019 Mr K was charged 43 weekly rentals of £224 
(total £9,632) and 5 charges of between £24 and £120 (total £203.50) on B and he paid 42 
weekly rentals of £224 (total £9,408) and 5 charges of between £24 and £120 (total 
£203.50).
On 11 June 2019 Mr K suffered a puncture. On or round 17 June 2019 the car was delivered 
to a garage for repair. On or round 18 June 2019 the car had been repaired and was ready 
for Mr K to collect.
On or around 20 June 2019, and with Mr K having not collected the car from the garage, 
PCO Rentals took delivery of it.
PCO Rentals said it was prepared to return the car back to Mr K but only on him bringing his 
accounts up to date (A and B). At this point in time PCO Rentals said Mr K owed it £746 
being:
£448 on A (two weekly rentals of £224)
£298 on B (one weekly rental of £224, one charge of £24 (PCN), one charge of £50 
(collection of the car from the repairing garage)
 
Mr K refused to pay the sum PCO Rentals was seeking from him and took the decision not 
to collect the car. 
PCO Rentals then took the decision to cancel Mr Ks agreement and use the £500 deposit it 
held (paid by Mr K at the start of his agreement in March 2018) to reduce the balance 
outstanding and due to it across both A and B to £246.Unhappy with PCO Rentals decision Mr K made a complaint to our service. As well as 
disputing that he owed PCO Rental £746, in particular the £224 weekly rental for the week 
commencing 11 June 2019, he submitted that it should have to pay him one weeks loss of 
earnings for the period the car, following it suffering a puncture, remained unrepaired and his 
£500 deposit.
Mr Ks complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
PCO Rentals had done nothing wrong.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view so the complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so I can confirm that Ive 
to the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Its clear Mr K has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr K will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
For ease I will address each point that I feel is material to this complaint one by one. 
the delay in the car being repaired
I appreciate that there was a delay in the car being repaired. But even if I was to accept that 
this was the fault of the recovery firm, who first attended when Mr K suffered a puncture, I 
cant see that this is something that I can reasonably hold PCO Rentals liable for. And this is 
despite the recovery firm that attended being one that attended under a fleet policy in the 
name of PCO Rentals rather than a personal policy in the name of Mr K.
I would also add that because of my view above (and given that there appears to be no 
provision in the agreement) I see no reason why PCO Rentals should have to pay Mr K for 
any earnings he might have lost as a result of the car suffering a puncture.
 
 
 
 
 
PCO Rentals decision to cancel the agreement
Under Mr Ks agreement PCO Rentals can:at any time by not less than 6 hours notice...terminate the hire period 
immediately recall [the car] for any circumstance [it] sees appropriate (without needing to 
provide a reason) 
Reasons for termination may include (but are not limited to):
Non payment/late payment
Accidents
PCNs/penalty points
Inappropriate behaviour
Lack of cooperation with [it]
So with the above in mind its my view PCO Rentals has, in cancelling the agreement, acted 
in line with what the agreement allows. I would also add that based on what both parties 
have said and submitted, in particular the contact PCO Rentals said it had, or attempted to 
have, with Mr K with a view of agreeing a way forward, Im satisfied that in cancelling the 
agreement PCO Rentals acted both fairly and reasonably.
weekly rental charges debited to the accounts
I appreciate Mr K disputes the combined balance on A and B of £746, inclusive of three 
weekly rentals of £224. And that in particular he disputes the weekly rental of £224 in 
respect of the week commencing 11 June 2019. But Ive simply seen insufficient evidence to 
conclude that this balance is incorrect. I would also add that the agreement states Mr K:
will still be liable to continue paying the rental and insurance charges in full [following an 
accident] 
other charges debited to the accounts
I appreciate Mr K disputes one or more of the charges debited to B. But Ive simply seen 
insufficient evidence to conclude that these charges are incorrect. I would also add that the 
agreement states Mr K:
bears responsibility for [all] fines and penalties
non return of £500 deposit
Im satisfied that PCO Rentals has acted fairly and reasonably in retaining Mr Ks deposit of 
£500 and using it to reduce Mr Ks debt of £746. I say this because as noted above Im 
satisfied that Mr Ks combined account balance, at the relevant time, was indeed £746. 
Furthermore I note that the that the agreement says:
the deposit [of £500] will only be returned once it has been established that there is no 
damage to the [car], any outstanding traffic fines and/or penalties due by [Mr K], there is no 
excess mileage and there is no outstanding Rental or insurance excess due to 
[PCO Rentals]. [Mr K] is to settle all fines/penalties/rental charges and excess charges 
before the deposit is returned
 
I appreciate that Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, but Im not persuaded that 
PCO Rentals has done anything wrong here. However, although I dont think PCO Rentals 
has done anything wrong, I would remind it of its obligations to treat Mr K positively and 
sympathetically if he is in financial difficulties.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman