DRN-4063929
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) mis-sold her a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan to top up her pension benefits but didnt 
make her aware of the in-house alternatives and she suffered losses as a consequence.  
Mrs D is represented by a claims management company (CMC), but I will just refer to Mrs D 
except where necessary.
What happened
Mrs D was a teacher. In 1991 Colonial Mutual (now Aviva) advised her to start a FSAVC with 
a contribution of £80 per month increasing by 5% per annum. She paid contributions until 
2006. She retired in 2012 and took tax free cash from the FSAVC in 2015, transferring the 
balance to another provider. In July 2022 Mrs D raised a complaint with Aviva saying it 
hadnt advised her about the in-house alternatives to a FSAVC. These were the similar, but 
usually cheaper, Teachers Additional Voluntary Contribution plan (TAVC) or to purchase 
added years in the main Teachers Pension Scheme (the TPS). 
Aviva said the advice it gave for Mrs D to make additional pension savings was correct. But 
it had no evidence that it had made her aware of the in-house alternatives as it should have 
done, so it upheld the complaint. It said based on her circumstances the TAVC option was a 
better match for her rather than the more expensive added years option. It said the TAVC 
had lower charges than the FSAVC and said it would undertake a loss calculation on this 
basis. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She said affordability shouldnt be the sole consideration because even if 
she couldnt have bought all the missing years to maximise her TPS, she could have bought 
some. So, the loss calculation should be completed on the basis she would have purchased 
added years. Mrs D referred her complaint about the basis of calculation to our service.
Our investigator looked into this complaint, but he didnt uphold it.
He said it wasnt disputed that the FSAVC had been mis-sold but he thought the loss 
calculation proposed by Aviva was fair. He said considering all the issues at the time the 
added years option was likely to have been seen as expensive compared to the AVC 
alternative, with less flexibility and a much greater commitment for Mrs D. He said the 
contributions shed initially paid were around 4.3% of her salary and added years would have 
cost considerably more than this. He said the allowable growth rates on AVC illustrations at 
the time were higher than the relatively conservative assumptions used for added years. And 
it was likely that she would have been attracted to the potentially higher returns as many 
people were at the time. He said whilst Mrs D was unlikely to leave the teaching profession, 
added years required a commitment to pay contributions as a percentage of salary until 
retirement age, but she had stopped paying the FSAVC in 2006 around six years before she 
did retire. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She said by the time contributions stopped they were over £150 per 
month and the maximum number of added years available to her was 13. Whilst these would 
have cost more than she paid, she still could have bought some added years. She said her 
attitude to investment risk (ATR) hadnt been considered. And apart from her mortgage 
endowment she had no risk-based investments, was risk adverse and would have selected 
the guaranteed option of added years. She said ceasing contributions after 15 years was 
unforeseen in 1991 and didnt bring into question her commitment to pension savings then. 
Our investigator said whilst there wasnt an ATR assessment on Avivas file, Mrs D had 
opted to invest wholly into equity funds. This suggested she was attracted to the potentially 
higher returns projected on illustrations at the time, which came with investment risk. And, if 
she wasnt prepared to accept risk, shed have opted for a lower risk fund. He said the TPS 
provided a secure base which would continue so it was more likely that shed have chosen 
the AVC option with the potential to provide higher returns. 
As Mrs D doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
It isnt disputed that the FSAVC was mis-sold. Aviva has offered to undertake calculations as 
set out by the financial regulator to establish whether this has resulted in losses due to the 
charges being higher than the in-house AVC alternative, which benefited from subsidised 
costs. So, the issue for me to decide is whether this is a fair outcome for Mrs D in terms of 
putting things right compared to a comparison against the added years alternative that was 
also available.
So, I need to consider what I think Mrs D would have done had Aviva told her to contact her 
employer or the TPS for information about in-house alternatives. Unfortunately, there isnt a 
great deal of contemporaneous evidence about the events of more than 30 years ago and 
any comments made now can be easily influenced by hindsight. So, where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
When the advice was given the general view prevailing was that buying added years of 
service in the main pension scheme was seen as being an expensive and fairly inflexible 
option. Added years provided guaranteed benefits, which were costed on a conservative 
basis to minimise the possibility that any liability for paying the extra benefits would fall back 
to the employer or taxpayer. With the TPS for someone 20 years from retirement age, a 
typical cost for one added year was between 0.8-1.0% of salary each year, with a 
commitment to maintain the payments to retirement age. In this case Aviva has said the cost 
of one added year would have been 0.92% of Mrs Ds salary to age 60.
 
In comparison both in-house AVCs and FSAVCs didnt offer guaranteed benefits but were 
expected to provide better investment returns in the future than most have actually achieved. 
So, the benefits projected for the same level of contribution were often rather higher than 
those from added years. So, AVCs could be perceived as a more cost-effective option. And 
contributions could be stopped, reduced, or increased within the allowable limits at any time, 
which generally wasnt the case for added years. There is limited evidence available about Mrs Ds attitude to risk. What is available doesnt 
persuade me that she was so risk adverse she would have only considered the guaranteed 
benefit option of added years. I think this because she did have a low-cost endowment 
mortgage. Whilst popular at the time, these were a riskier option than a repayment 
mortgage. I think a risk adverse person would be likely to avoid an endowment mortgage. 
And the FSAVC was 100% invested in Avivas equity fund, the highest risk option available 
on the application form. I think it unlikely that this choice wouldnt have been discussed and 
agreed with Mrs D. And I think the evidence from the time, principally the fact find document, 
supports this. This document appears to have been completed by the adviser and was 
signed by Mrs D. 
The notes in the document indicate there was some discussion about investment along with 
what contribution was required to provide a certain level of additional benefit and what actual 
contribution was affordable for her. 
Under the section headed THE BEST ADVICE, some basic calculations are set out to 
identify the shortfall or gap between the benefits Mrs D could receive from the TPS. This 
was the difference between her potential number of years of employment to retirement age 
and the maximum allowable under the scheme rules. It identifies the gap in monetary terms 
as being £320 per month. It then states:
A premium of £93 /mth at 13% growth with 7% inflation is reqd.
This suggests the advice was to contribute £93 gross with the aim of targeting similar 
benefits to purchasing around 13-14 added years which would maximise the TPS pension. 
Assuming the highest rate of return that could then be illustrated, 13% per annum was 
achieved. With hindsight actual investment returns have been generally lower than this. But 
this suggests the objective was to generate a high level of return. Which explains why the 
equity fund investment was selected on the application form rather than the lower risk 
alternatives available. 
The fact find note continues; 
£60 net Accep
This indicates that instead of the initial recommendation of a £93 per month contribution Mrs 
D decided on £60 net or £80 including tax relief. Presumably this is what she considered 
affordable at the time. This was around half the maximum allowable contribution she could 
have made for either added years or AVCs. Buying 13 or so added years would have been 
more expensive still at around £218 per month based on Avivas costings, greater than the 
maximum contribution allowable at the time. 
On the same cost assumptions, the actual contribution paid by Mrs D would have secured 
around 4.75 added years, assuming it was possible to secure partial years. So, on the 
forecasts used at the time the AVC could potentially provide benefits similar to those 
available had the maximum number of added years been purchased (which wasnt actually 
possible) at rather less than half the contribution cost, but with no guarantees applying. 
Thats a significant cost differential and was something that was attractive to many people at 
the time, particularly with the additional flexibility that AVCs did offer. 
And Mrs D did make use of that flexibility when she stopped paying to the FSAVC around six 
years before her retirement age. She hasnt said why she did this. But when the advice was 
given added years contributions could only be stopped in fairly extreme cases of financial 
hardship. 
Mrs D doesnt appear to have been directed towards information about in-house alternatives 
to the FSAVC. Had she been, I think it is unlikely she would have chosen - without the 
benefit of hindsight  what were seen as the much more expensive and inflexible added years option. I think it is more likely she would have taken up the seemingly cheaper and 
more flexible in-house AVC alternative. 
This may well have forecast higher benefits than the Aviva FSAVC due to the likelihood of its 
charges being lower. That means I think Avivas offer to resolve the mis-selling complaint by 
calculating any potential loss on a charges basis is a fair one. So, I cant uphold Mrs Ds 
further complaint that it should undertake a calculation on an added years basis. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman