DRN-2750350
The complaint
Mr Y complains about invoices hes received from Lynden Ltd trading as FindYourPPI 
(Lynden Ltd) for work theyve carried out on a claim for mis-sold Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI). Mr Y wants Lynden Ltd to accept his offer of £500 for their fees. 
What happened
Mr Y completed a form and a letter of authority asking Lynden Ltd to look into a PPI 
complaint against Lender N.  Lynden Ltd registered Mr Ys complaint before the deadline 
date of 29 August 2019. Around nine months later, Lynden Ltd wrote to Mr Y asking him to 
complete a PPI questionnaire and also a new letter of authority as the previous one may 
have expired. Mr Y then contacted Lender N direct and they made an offer of compensation. 
Lynden Ltd sent Mr Y an invoice for their fee but he complained as he felt his contract with 
them had expired. And, he had to complete the work which led to the compensation.  
Lynden Ltd responded and said they had carried out work in the complaint so they were 
entitled to their fee. Mr Y offered £500 to settle Lynden Ltds fees which they declined. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr Y. He thought that Lynden Ltd hadnt acted 
unreasonably in charging Mr Y a fee. Mr Y disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr Y will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Theres no dispute here that Lynden Ltd have carried out work. The dispute between the 
parties relates to whether there was still an agreement in place after Lynden Ltd said the 
letter of authority may have expired. Mr Y feels this brought an end to the agreement and 
Lynden Ltd say neither party has ever terminated the agreement so they had instructions to 
handle the complaint  and therefore are entitled to their fee. Ive taken into account the 
conflicting views of the parties and looked at the evidence to decide if Lynden Ltd have acted 
fairly and reasonably. 
I can see Mr Y signed up to Lynden Ltds service through their website. Lynden Ltd have 
provided screenshots of the sign-up journey which Mr Y will have followed. This requires a 
customer to complete some personal details and to then place a tick beside a list of lenders 
they would like Lynden Ltd to approach. The customer is then taken to a section which lists 
the terms and conditions and requires the customer to tick a box which says I have read 
and accept the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy, including fee of 20%+VAT for a 
successful claim. 
The terms and conditions say that, once Lynden Ltd receive a letter of authority they will 
contact the lender. It says, if PPI is found, then some lenders have agreed to investigate the 
complaint straight away and may make an offer. If an offer isnt received at this stage, then 
Lynden Ltd may ask a customer to complete a PPI questionnaire. The terms and conditions 
also set out Lynden Ltds fees as 20% + VAT. I have seen the letter of authority signed by 
Mr Y in August 2019 in relation to a complaint against Lender N. This says in the event of 
PPI being found, I also give consent to Lynden Ltdto act on my behalf in relation to mis-
sold financial products and claims against the Finance Company as instructed. I can see 
Lynden Ltd then send a complaint to Lender N around a week before the deadline date. A 
response was received to say that Lender N had found a number of accounts where they 
had mis-sold PPI to Mr Y. Lynden Ltd then send a PPI questionnaire to Mr Y. 
Lynden Ltd write to Mr Y in May 2020 to let him know they have found PPI on accounts he 
held with Lender N. Lynden Ltd say Lender N may have converted the enquiry into a 
complaint based on the information they hold. They say its important to provide Lender N 
with as much information as possible. They say, if Mr Y would like to proceed with Lynden 
Ltds service, then he needs to complete a PPI questionnaire and sign and date their 
Agreement Form for Compensation Claim. They also explain as six months has passed Mr 
Ys original letter of authority may be invalid. I understand, its following this correspondence, 
that Mr Y decides to contact Lender N himself. This continues through to the point the 
complaint is settled.     
Taking this all into account, I dont think Lynden Ltd have acted unfairly or unreasonably. I 
say this because the information shows they receive a letter of authority which allows them 
to get things moving with the complaint. And, it gives them authority to act on Mr Ys behalf 
to investigate and pursue a complaint. They register an enquiry with Lender N which leads to 
confirmation from Lender N that theyve found accounts where PPI had been mis-sold. In 
addition to this, Lender N write to Lynden Ltd in May 2020 enclosing a copy of letters sent to 
Mr Y. The letters addressed to Mr Y say that Lender N have upheld the complaint and offer 
compensation of £7,944.75. Lender N write again in July 2020 and again enclose copy 
letters sent to Mr Y to say his complaint has been upheld and they offer compensation of 
£530.25. In both cases, the cover letter from Lender N to Lynden Ltd says Please find 
enclosed a copy of our Final Decision Letter issued to your client. So, its clear Lender N are 
aware of Lynden Ltds involvement in the complaint and understand Mr Y was being 
represented by them.   
 
I dont doubt Mr Y has had conversations with Lender N and understand why he feels this 
led to the settlement of his complaint. But, this doesnt change the fact that Lynden Ltd were 
instructed by Mr Y to handle his complaint and remained instructed while Mr Y was 
discussing the matter directly with Lender N. Its not uncommon for a Claims Management 
Company (CMC)  such as Lynden Ltd  to ask a customer for an updated letter of 
authority. Some lenders require a new letter of authority after an amount of time has passed. 
So, as a precautionary measure and to avoid any delays, CMCs will ask customers to sign a 
new letter of authority in case a lender asks for one. And thats what Lynden Ltd did. In this 
case, Lender N didnt ask for an updated letter of authority and continued to process the 
complaint on the basis of the original one signed by Mr Y. So, I cant say the original letter of 
authority was ever confirmed as, or treated as, being invalid. I note Mr Y says Lynden Ltd, in 
their letter of May 2020, say the letter of authority may be invalid. But, I think its important to 
note Lynden Ltd say it may be invalid rather than giving any confirmation that it is invalid. 
I think the evidence shows the compensation offers made to Mr Y are as a direct result of 
Lynden Ltds involvement. I can see the complaint was registered with Lender N by Lynden 
Ltd before the deadline  had this not been the case then Mr Ys complaint risked being time 
barred. And, I'm further persuaded the settlement arises out of Lynden Ltds involvement 
because of the letters Lender N has sent to them discussing the offers of compensation. 
I havent seen any information which shows Mr Y terminated the agreement with Lynden Ltd 
 this being something he was able to do under the terms and conditions. So, I believe its 
reasonable for Lynden Ltd to be paid their fee.  I note Mr Y is concerned about the level of work carried out by Lynden Ltd and how this 
justifies their fee. He feels his offer of £500 is fair and reflects the work theyve carried out. I 
can see Lynden Ltd have charged Mr Y fees of £1,906.74 and £127.26. Lynden Ltd charged 
a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, Lynden Ltds fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just because 
Lynden Ltds fee might be higher than the value of the work they have done for Mr Y, it 
doesnt make their fee unjustified.
 
I understand Mr Y feels things were taking too long and this is why he decided to discuss 
matters directly with Lender N. I do understand Mr Ys frustrations here but I cant say 
Lynden Ltd were responsible for any delays. Lenders, including Lender N, received a high 
volume of complaints leading up to the deadline date. This meant the usual timeframes for 
providing a final response were no longer realistic and it could take longer to get an answer 
from a lender. Lynden Ltd also say the Covid-19 pandemic and the resulting lockdowns had 
an impact on timeframes and meant lenders took longer to process complaints. Ive looked 
at the work carried out by Lynden Ltd and cant see theres been any periods of inactivity 
which is down to their own delay. So, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.  
In summary, I think the agreement and letter of authority signed by Mr Y shows he instructed 
Lynden Ltd to act for him in his complaint about Lender N. Theres no evidence he, or 
Lynden Ltd, terminated the instructions, so it was fair and reasonable for them to continue 
acting. Ive seen that Lynden Ltd have carried out work and theyve also made Mr Y aware of 
their fee structure. So, I dont think Lynden Ltd have acted unreasonably in charging Mr Y 
fees for the work theyve done.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman