DRN-3314241
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds decision to decline her 
claim for damage to her conservatory under her home insurance policy. Mrs A was also 
unhappy about the service provided.
What happened
Mrs A made a claim for subsidence to her conservatory. Mrs A said she had first noticed the 
cracks in 2013 but didnt claim at the time due to personal circumstances. In 2018 Mrs A 
claimed for subsidence damage to her utility room. RSA accepted the utility room damage as 
a valid claim caused by subsidence. In dealing with the utility room claim RSA found the 
subsidence was due to a leaking drain. RSA replaced external pipes and repaired the utility 
room. Mrs A said that she felt this showed the conservatory damage was linked to the same 
issue. RSA didnt agree. It said there was no sign of recent movement to the conservatory. It 
said the conservatory had historically suffered settlement but there was no damage. RSA 
continued that the foundations were insufficient anyway and even if there was current 
subsidence it would exclude the claim due to inadequate foundations. 
RSA accepted that the service it provided hadnt been as good as it should have been. It 
said there were avoidable delays and Mrs A hadnt been kept updated as she should have 
been. To apologise for the distress and inconvenience this caused it offered £300 
compensation. Mrs A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt any evidence to show the 
conservatory damage was recent. So, he thought RSA acted fairly when it declined the 
claim. Our investigator also said RSA could rely on the defective design exclusion.
Mrs A didnt accept this and asked for her case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A said based on where the drains were, she feels it is likely the leak affected the 
conservatory too. She said this had caused subsidence damage and felt that RSA should 
deal with this as it did for the utility room.
Ive looked at the evidence provided by the experts on behalf of RSA.  
The loss adjusters C said: The cause of movement to the conservatory is simply 
inadequate foundations, being shallow foundations at 230mm on a shrinkable clay soil. 
The conservatory is remote from the drains which were defective resulting in movement to 
the utility room within the rear of the garage. 
The utility was founded on made ground which is susceptible to voiding/compressibility and 
washing away in the case of water escaping from drains. 
The conservatory is founded on a shrinkable clay soil which was stiff in nature and trial pit 
and borehole investigations did not reveal any indication that leakage from drains was 
adversely affecting the structure. Additionally, there were no signs of tree roots or 
desiccation at the time of site investigation. 
The cracks are very slight in appearance it is likely that minor seasonal movement of the 
underlying clay soil occurred in 2018 due to shallow foundations. I consider that the 
conservatory is stable and is not suffering from a progressive subsidence problem.
The point about the drains was backed up by the drains expert D. Its report said: the 
drains do not go under the foundations and could not find any issues so they are not the 
cause of the subsidence.the damage is not drain related.
C went on to say of the conservatory claim: there is no physical damage to the conservatory 
to consider as part of a claim. The insured is claiming as the conservatory is out of level 
however there is no evidence of recent active or progressive movement and the movement 
is likely to have taken place soon after construction as a result of settlement given the 
shallow foundations.
There is a gap between the brick dwarf wall and main house, however a wire has been 
installed within this gap and the fixings have rusted which indicates it has been there a 
number of years. Above this point there is no disturbance to the sealant between the 
conservatory frame and the house suggesting no movement has taken place in the time the 
sealant has been applied.
The cause of movement cannot therefore be attributed to the same subsidence event which 
occurred in 2018.
I saw in RSAs notes references to these points including If there is no damage internally 
other than a historic sloping floor the damage should be repudiated due to settlementThis 
movement likely took place soon after the conservatory was constructed. The absence of 
damage would suggest there is no recent or ongoing subsidence movement taken place.
In the evidence I noted the trial pit confirmed the ground was dry and there were no tree 
roots found. This further shows that the leak or any other likely cause of subsidence wasnt 
linked to the conservatory.
These points were relayed to Mrs A during the claim process. And I think RSA has been 
clear in evidence as to the reasons why the conservatory is different to the utility room. I can 
understand why Mrs A questioned if the drains were leaking close to the conservatory. But I 
think RSA has been able to provide details to show theres no link between the two separate 
areas and so it acted reasonably when it declined the conservatory claim. 
Regarding the service and delays Mrs A suffered Ive reviewed the timescales involved and 
the compensation offered. I think RSA was right to accept it should have dealt with matters 
more quickly and that the communication to Mrs A could have been better. But I think its 
offer of £300 compensation for her distress and inconvenience is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.I make no award against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman