DRN-3043044
The complaint
Mr W complains The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op Bank) wont refund a payment 
made on his credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for event 
tickets.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr W bought two tickets for an event in October 2018 using his credit 
card with The Co-op Bank. In total, he paid £235.31.
Mr W complains the Website didnt make clear the additional fees that were added to the 
ticket price. Mr W says the original price of the tickets were £84 each and that he wasnt 
aware of the fees until after hed completed the purchase. So, he feels the total price was 
misrepresented to him. Mr W says he found the tickets cheaper on the theatres website and 
that he felt rushed into buying the tickets as there were messages on the Website alerting 
him that there were only a certain amount of tickets available.
The Co-op Bank looked into Mr Ws concerns, but they didnt think they could help. They 
thought a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) would be 
unsuccessful. They said the Website had displayed the full cost of the tickets which included 
additional fees. And that although Mr W may have found cheaper tickets elsewhere, the 
Website provides a service to allow members to buy and sell tickets and that the seller 
assigns the price to the tickets. The Co-op Bank later said they didnt feel they had grounds 
to raise a chargeback claim because they didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. 
Unhappy with The Co-op Banks response, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into things for him. Ultimately, he didnt think The Co-op Bank had acted 
unfairly by declining Mr Ws request for a refund. He said Mr W had entered his card details 
on the Website when purchasing the tickets, therefore, hed authorised the transaction. Our 
investigator also thought the final amount of the tickets was made clear to Mr W. So, he 
didnt think there had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the Website. 
Overall, our investigator didnt think The Co-op Bank needed to do anything else.
Mr W disagreed. In summary, he said he felt misled by the Website and that there had been 
a court ruling carried which resulted in the Website needing to make changes to the way 
they presented information. Mr W also asked our investigator to visit the online forum which 
had other customers thoughts about the Website. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr W has some concerns about the Website and how it operates. But I must make 
clear that this complaint is about The Co-op Bank, as Mr Ws credit card account provider. 
The Website isnt a financial service provider and as it doesnt fall within my remit, Im unable 
to look at a complaint against them directly. I can only consider whether Mr W authorised 
The Co-op Bank to debit his account with the value of the payment, and whether The Co-op 
Bank should have helped with the dispute with the Website in any other way. 
Mr W says he made the transaction for these tickets and was willing to purchase the tickets 
at their price. Mr W doesnt argue he didnt buy the tickets on his credit card, he argues that 
he wasnt aware of the additional charges up front and only became aware of these when 
finalising the purchase. Mr W says he felt rushed by the Website when buying the tickets 
because a message kept coming up telling him there were only a certain amount of tickets 
left. While I appreciate what Mr W has said, it seems to me he was aware of the amount he 
was paying as he finalised the purchase  as Mr W has explained, he proceeded to 
purchase the tickets as he didnt want to miss out. Additionally, weve got screenshot 
evidence of the ticket buying process dating back to October 2017, just two months before 
Mr W bought the tickets. And I can see the total price is displayed on the final page before 
the buyer is asked to enter their card details.
Having considered everything Mr W has said (including that he made this purchase and paid 
for the tickets) and the evidence provided by The Co-op Bank, Im satisfied the transaction 
was properly authorised and correctly applied to Mr Ws credit card account with The Co-op 
Bank. 
I note Mr W has also mentioned a court ruling made in relation to the Website in 2018. 
However, this isnt something Im able to comment on as my decision is looking at the 
actions of The Co-op Bank and whether theyve acted unfairly towards Mr W.
could The Co-op Bank challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
The chargeback process is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between card holders and suppliers. And they are dealt with under the relevant card scheme 
rules such as Visa and Mastercard. In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a 
dispute with a merchant (as Mr W does here), the card issuer (The Co-op Bank) can attempt 
a chargeback. 
Generally, we say its fair for a card issuer, like The Co-op Bank, to attempt a chargeback - 
or to challenge a payment - if theres a reasonable prospect of success. For example, where 
goods or services arent received, or it appears that the payment wasnt properly authorised 
by the cardholder.
I note The Co-op Bank told us they didnt raise a chargeback in Mr Ws case because they 
didnt think it was likely to succeed as they didnt feel they had strong enough evidence to 
support Mr Ws position. Mr W told us he received the tickets ahead of the event. So, I dont 
think The Co-op Bank could have raised a chargeback claim on the basis Mr W didnt get the 
tickets or what he paid for.
Mr W has been consistent in telling us that he wasnt aware of the additional charges that 
were added until he finalised the purchase. As Ive explained, Mr W authorised the 
transaction and agreed to pay for the tickets. The Co-op Bank are required to consider 
whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when they are considering whether to go 
through the chargeback process or not. Bearing in mind Mr W authorised the transaction and 
received the tickets, The Co-op Banks decision that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of 
success in a chargeback is fair and reasonable in my opinion. So, Im not persuaded they 
acted unfairly.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?As the payment was made using a credit card, I have also taken into account how Section 
75 applies to the transaction. In certain circumstances, Mr W has an equal right to claim 
against The Co-op Bank as he does against the supplier (the Website) if theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (the Website) if certain conditions are 
met. 
My role isnt to decide The Co-op Banks liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute 
requires me to, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant 
law, such as the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). For a valid claim under Section 75 there 
must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place. The Websites terms and 
conditions in this case say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers. 
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. But that the Website 
provides a service. And for this they charge buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website 
says they: 
charge a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service. 
So, in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr W who is the 
debtor, The Co-op Bank who is the creditor and the Website who is the provider - although 
not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website provides a service. 
The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee (which is the supply 
of valid tickets).
With this in mind, I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such as 
venue, date, time, and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the 
guarantee, theyre responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller 
doesnt fulfil their obligations around supplying the tickets. However, the Website are a 
secondary ticket selling website. This means the tickets are purchased through the Website 
from a third-party seller (who isnt representing the Website).
Another condition necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must have a cash price of more than £100 but less than £30,000. In this 
case, I havent seen a breakdown of the amount Mr W paid  but I can see from his 
statements that he was charged a total of £235.31. From our research, weve found that the 
Websites fee makes up about a third of the total cost. One third of £235.31 is around 
£78.40. So, I dont think this case meets the required financial limits to have a claim under 
Section 75. Because of this, I dont have to consider whether there is a breach of contract or 
a misrepresentation here as Section 75 does not cover Mr W for this particular transaction.
was there anything else within the Consumer Credit Act 1974 that The Co-op Bank should 
have considered? 
Even though Ive made the finding that I dont think there is a valid claim under Section 75 of 
the CCA, I think Section 56 of the CCA could be of particular relevance to this complaint.
In summary, Section 56 has the effect of making the Website the agent of The Co-op Bank 
during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr W entering into a transaction with 
them. So, what this means is The Co-op Bank are responsible for the acts or omissions of the Website and what was said or done before the transaction was entered in to and 
conducted by the Website. In simpler terms, The Co-op Bank have to stand behind the 
things the Website said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process.
For a valid claim under Section 56, there has to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place - which is satisfied for reasons Ive already explained. However, unlike 
Section 75, there are no monetary limits attached to Section 56. So, I can consider the 
impact of Section 56 and whether The Co-op Bank ought to have considered this in Mr Ws 
case.
Mr W has told us he wasnt aware of the amount of additional costs, such as tax and a 
booking fee, that were charged. And that these were added at the end of the purchase 
process. As previously explained, Ive seen screenshot evidence of the buying process from 
2017 - which I think is more likely than not, the same steps Mr W followed when he 
purchased his tickets. And I can see the total price is displayed on the final page before Mr 
W would have been asked to enter his card details. I can also see theres a breakdown of 
the additional charges such as tax, booking and delivery fee. So, I think its more likely than 
not Mr W would have been aware of the price, inclusive of the additional charges. Having 
thought about this carefully, Im not persuaded the Website misrepresented the price 
information to Mr W.
In summary, while I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr W, I think he 
authorised The Co-op Bank to debit his credit card account with the value of the transaction 
to the Website, so I think it was fair for them to do that. I also dont think The Co-op Bank 
acted unfairly in the handling of Mr Ws chargeback claim. And although I dont think the 
claim meets the financial limits under Section 75, had The Co-op Bank considered Mr Ws 
claim under Section 56, I dont think they wouldve acted unfairly by declining it. So, its for 
these reasons I dont think I can fairly require The Co-op Bank to refund Mr W for the tickets.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman