DRN-2784152
The complaint
Mr K is the director of a limited company (Y), who complains that National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) processed a transaction from his business account without 
authorisation.
What happened
Y is a merchant that holds a business account with NatWest. It had a direct debit 
arrangement set up with Worldpay UK Limited, who were Ys merchant acquirer for its card 
payments. Y cancelled its direct debit with Worldpay on 4 June 2019.
Y is unhappy because NatWest allowed a payment of £14,778 to be debited from its account 
by Worldpay on 11 June 2019, despite having cancelled its direct debit arrangement a week 
earlier. It says that NatWest had no authority or legal basis to allow the payment to be 
debited. 
The money has since been reimbursed by Worldpay, but Y submits that NatWest should 
apologise and cover its legal costs as well as paying compensation. It also wants NatWest to 
disclose any documentation or agreement it had with Worldpay that allows the merchant 
acquirer to debit payments in these circumstances. 
NatWest explained that Worldpay has a relationship with all banks under which it allowed the 
amount to be debited and said that any dispute about this would have to be taken up with 
Worldpay directly. Y disagreed and said the money had been taken fraudulently from its 
account. It said its dispute was with NatWest for allowing the funds to be paid with no 
authority.
During the course of our investigation, it came to light that the £14,778 was debited by 
Worldpay in order to cover its potential liability for several chargeback claims made against 
Y by its customers, seemingly due to alleged fraudulent activity where payments were taken 
without the customer being present; and the goods paid for had been sent to an address not 
linked to the customers payment card.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think NatWest had acted 
unreasonably or unlawfully by allowing Worldpay to debit the amount, as Y had a separate 
agreement with Worldpay that allowed it to debit funds from its business account to cover 
any chargeback liability. Y disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
Y submits that NatWest has acted unreasonably by allowing Worldpay to debit the payment 
from its account. It submits that the only way in which a payment could be made to Worldpay 
without its direct authorisation is via a direct debit arrangement, which it had already 
cancelled with NatWest by the time the payment was taken. 
Direct debits can be identified on Ys statements by the code D/D. However, the payment 
of £14,778 made on 11 June 2019 was not taken under a direct debit mandate as can be 
seen from the statements; it was an international transfer coded ITL. So, Y cancelling its 
direct debit arrangement with NatWest would not have prevented this payment from being 
collected, as it was instead taken in line with the contract Y still had in place with Worldpay 
at that time.
I appreciate that Ys complaint concerns the actions of NatWest and the legitimacy of it 
allowing the amount to be debited. But as part of these considerations, its also necessary to 
consider Ys relationship with Worldpay as its merchant acquirer and the contractual terms 
and conditions that govern that relationship. 
Worldpay has sent us a copy of its merchant services agreement, that it says Y was still a 
party to at the time the payment was debited. It has explained that Ys merchant account 
was set up in March 2018 and has evidenced that it was closed on 2 August 2019 following 
a 30-day notice period (with Y giving notice on 3 July 2019). So when the chargeback 
payment was debited on 11 June 2019, the agreement was still in force, and Ive seen 
nothing that would suggest the cancelling of a direct debit would immediately terminate this 
agreement or Ys potential chargeback liability to Worldpay either. Indeed, it would 
undermine the integrity of the entire card payment services scheme if merchants could 
escape potential chargeback claims brought on behalf of their customers simply by 
cancelling a direct debit through their bank. Merchants benefit from being able to sell goods 
and services via plastic cards  and ought reasonably to understand from the outset that 
potential chargebacks are simply a feature of the scheme. 
Ive considered the merchant services agreement between Worldpay and Y, and its clear 
that the merchant acquirer had a mandate to collect the payment (whether rightly or wrongly, 
which isnt the subject of the dispute here). The below clauses (amongst others) entitle 
Worldpay to recover sums from Y with regards to chargebacks. For example:
6.1 Each Chargeback and each Assessment represents a debt immediately due and 
payable by you to us.
6.2 You acknowledge and agree that you may be required to reimburse us for 
Chargebacks in circumstances where you have accepted payment in respect of the 
relevant Transaction, even if you are under no legal liability in respect of the supply of 
the goods or services concerned.

10.1 You hereby irrevocably authorise each of us and any Other Financial Institution, 
from time to time without notice and both before and after demand, to set off by 
whatever means the whole or any part of your liabilities to us or any Other Financial 
Institutionagainst any Remittance due to you or against any sums (whether or not 
related to the Transaction that gave rise to the liability) held by us or any Other 
Financial Institution or owed to you under the Agreement
Having considered the provisions of this legal agreement, Im satisfied that Worldpay had a 
mandate to collect the chargeback claim from Y, as it has ultimately consented to the 
merchant acquirer recovering any sums relating to potential chargeback liability. So, I do not 
think NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably by allowing the amount to be debited from 
Ys account, as Worldpay clearly had authority to do so by virtue of its merchant services 
agreement, which was still in force at the time the payment was collected. I understand that Ys primary concern in this complaint is what mandate NatWest had to 
release the payment. But all major banks have commercial agreements in place with 
merchant acquirers such as Worldpay to allow for chargebacks to be collected, so as to give 
business efficacy to the card payment services system. I appreciate that NatWest has not 
disclosed the particular provisions of the agreement it has in place with Worldpay that allows 
for chargeback sums to be collected. But I am satisfied that such information is commercially 
sensitive and, given that Y is not party to that agreement, I do not consider that NatWest has 
acted unreasonably by failing to disclose it. 
I believe it is normal, with chargeback claims, for the disputed transactions to be credited 
back to the customer pending resolution of the claim (which, by way of example and 
depending on the scheme rules, might involve up to two presentments and, ultimately, 
independent arbitration by Visa or MasterCard). If the merchant successfully defends the 
claim(s), the disputed sums are then debited once again from the customers account and 
credited back into the merchants. 
I understand that Y doesnt think it had any chargeback liability, or that any funds were due 
to Worldpay. But this goes to the heart of Ys dispute with Worldpay, i.e. whether it had 
correctly processed the chargeback requests in the first place. It was not for NatWest as the 
card issuer to question the validity of the chargeback claim, as it is not the party responsible 
for this (that being the card scheme operator, such as Visa or MasterCard).
I also understand that Y disputes the total amount of the chargeback sum, as it doesnt 
consider the total of £14,778 that was debited by Worldpay to be correct. But again, this 
concerns the acts and omissions of Worldpay, which is not the subject of this complaint 
given that it is not the respondent. I can only consider the acts or omissions of NatWest in its 
capacity of allowing Worldpay to debit the payment. Chargebacks are decided based on the 
card schemes rules and Im not persuaded that NatWest ought to have second-guessed or 
obstructed what appeared on the face of things to be a legitimate chargeback request. The 
proper process for disputing a chargeback of this nature is for the merchant to defend it or 
proceed to arbitration with the card scheme operator  it cannot expect its bank to defend 
chargeback requests on its behalf; and neither can it avoid its chargeback liability simply by 
cancelling the direct debit mandate it gave to the merchant acquirer under that contract. 
 
In summary, the amount of £14,778 was an international payment (not a direct debit) 
requested by Worldpay, for which it had a mandate to collect as a result of the merchant 
services agreement with Y to cover its potential chargeback liability. Given that it had such a 
mandate  and given that NatWest also has its own commercial relationship and agreement 
with Worldpay to allow chargeback payments to be collected  I do not consider that the 
bank acted unfairly by allowing the payment to be debited. Indeed, it is fundamental to the 
efficient operation of the chargeback system (and therefore, the trust that consumers place 
in making card payments) that their sums can be returned without obstruction on the part of 
the merchant or its bank  and without the need for legal proceedings  if theyve made a 
successful claim.
I understand that Y has since had the full amount reimbursed by Worldpay in any event. But 
while I appreciate it would have inconvenienced Y to be without this money for a certain 
period of time, this is not something I consider NatWest can fairly be held liable for. Indeed, 
such consequential losses strike me as being an inevitable and unavoidable feature of 
agreeing to participate in such a scheme. Y is a commercial complainant, not a consumer, 
so can fairly be assumed to have understood the pros and cons of entering into a legally-
binding contract of this nature. So, I will not be asking NatWest to take any further action in 
these circumstances.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K  on behalf of 
Y  to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman