DRN-3910379
The complaint
Miss B and Mr S complain about their home insurer, UK Insurance Limited (UKI) decisions 
and handling of their claim for damage to their home from being flooded. I have mostly just 
referred to Miss B throughout. References to UKI include its agents and contractors.
 
What happened
Miss Bs home was flooded in October 2020, and she said in April 2022 that it hasnt been 
habitable since then and she has no idea when they can return. She said this was the third 
flood in less than ten years and each time UKI made their lives unbearable. She is very 
unhappy with the time taken for the repair work to be carried out and said the workmanship 
has been extremely poor with contractors being subcontracted then sub-contracting others. 
UKI accepted the claim and appointed loss adjusters to manage it and a contractor for strip 
out and another for the reinstatement. UKIs loss adjuster reviewed the state of the work and 
acknowledged that the strip out wasnt up to standard, in particular the tanking was damaged 
and had to be replaced, causing significant delay. The loss adjuster also acknowledged poor 
finishes to the work and gaps in the woodwork and flooring. However, due to the sudden 
termination of the contract, this had to be addressed by the next contractor. 
In detail, Miss B complained that the strip out was left in a dangerous state, with material put 
in their garage and garden, attracting vermin, and the contractor couldnt get kitchen units of 
the correct size. She said new oak doors were installed and then had chunks pulled out. The 
plastering was done badly, and not all radiators were fitted so the central heating wasn't on 
over two winters and the upstairs become damp and smelly. She said they chased progress 
many times and their complaints went to the loss adjusters as UKI wouldnt return their calls. 
UKI said the repair work started in June 2021, with intended completion in September 2021. 
Following delays a new completion date was set of 8 December 2021, but the contractors 
were then removed, and significant issues discovered. A new contractor was appointed in 
December 2021, but they then said they couldnt assist with the work. On 1 February 2022 
the loss adjusters confirmed a contractor had been appointed to deal with the outstanding 
work. UKI said other contractors had declined the work due to issues during previous claims 
and the new contractor said the repairs would have to be started from scratch.
Miss B said UKI sent contractors to their home in December 2021 and February 2022 to 
price up the work, but one contractor turned down the work. She said her family have been 
squeezed into a small property and desperately need to get back to their home. She said the 
last contractors hadnt returned the keys despite requests. She said they have advised that 
the walls appear to be dropping away from the ceilings, and they have requested a review by 
a structural engineer. She said there appears to be more movement each time they look.
Miss B said UKI has had more than enough time to resolve the claim, but theres still no 
return date whereas other affected houses were restored within a year. She said no 
contractors had worked on their home since November 2021. And a sofa and bed they had 
ordered couldnt be delivered due to delays and they faced cancellation fees. In February 
2022 Miss B told the loss adjuster the house was moving and requested a structural 
engineer. UKI arranged this and he reported that the problem is a direct result of a loft 
conversion and not connected to flood claims. UKI provided Miss B with a copy of the report.
More recently, the contractor sent Miss B sent a new schedule of repairs on 2 August 2022 
and she responded with some queries and a snagging list. UKI told its loss adjuster on 6 
September 2022 that nothing had happened over the last few weeks and the loss adjuster 
updated the parties. In November 2022 UKI said that Miss B continued to raise issues which 
it thought were settled. It said there were some valid issues to be resolved but also Miss B 
and Mr Ss contractors had caused significant issues which UKI wouldnt resolve. It said it 
had told Miss B that it wouldnt commit to a further strip out and reinstatement of works 
already completed. UKI said it didnt believe that Mr S would remain off site, and it thought 
an offer of cash settlement was the best way to conclude the claim.  
 
Our investigator said we cant look at complaints before June 2021 or the quality of work 
before July 2021 as these were brought out of time. This meant he hadnt considered the 
alternative accommodation, but noted Miss B had arranged this. And he hadnt considered 
movement in the house as this hadnt been raised as a complaint to UKI by Miss B. 
The investigator considered the issues from July 2021 to November 2022 when UKI offered 
a cash settlement. He said UKI had acknowledged significant issues and delay. He thought 
very little happened to the remedial work from July 2021 to November 2022 and a cash 
settlement of the claim would be the best approach. The investigator thought Miss B had 
suffered trouble and upset, but the contractors hadnt been able to progress the work without 
disturbance. He recommended UKI pay Miss B and Mr S £800 compensation.
UKI agreed with the investigator, but Miss B did not. UKI offered Miss B £15,000 in 
settlement of her claim and that it would pay for the alternative accommodation until the end 
of February 2023.
Miss B said the work schedule didnt cover all the repairs required and was just the minimum 
that UKI thought it could get away with. She said she was getting her own quote for the work 
which would include re-doing all previous work. She said the alternative accommodation she 
sourced was a better option than UKI had proposed. She thought the structural engineers 
report on movement at their home was flawed and had obtained an independent expert 
report which found that the wooden beams were moving, and the walls were unsupported. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B complains about the time taken with her claim and the poor service she says they 
have received. Ive looked carefully at the history of this claim to see if UKI has treated Miss 
B and Mr S have been treated in accordance with the terms of the policy and treated fairly. I 
have considered all matters up until November 2022. And so follow-up complaints about the 
final settlement and alternative accommodation will need to be considered separately. 
Miss B made two previous complaints about this claim and as the investigator has said we 
cant include issues here about service provided prior to June 2021, or the quality of work by 
contractors before July 2021. The reason is these issues were the subject of the previous 
complaints and responses from UKI, and they havent been referred to us within the time 
limit set out within UKIs response letters. This means I have only looked at the impact of the 
service UKI provided on the claim for one winter.
A degree of frustration and inconvenience is inherent within any claim for significant damage 
to a home as the repair issues will be complex to resolve and involve multiple parties. We expect policyholders to engage with their claims and use their time to assist their progress 
and so we wouldnt award compensation for this. Also repairs carried out during the covid 
pandemic took longer than they would normally do and affected the availability of materials. 
Im sure Miss B understands these points and that it follows that our role is to see if there 
has been unnecessary distress caused and avoidable delays and if so, what the appropriate 
compensation would be. For this purpose I have looked closely at UKIs handling of the 
claim and the actions of its agents and the timeline it has provided. 
From the timeline I can see there were several delays in awaiting contractors and plans, and 
issues about workmanship. Contractors arranged for the property to be stripped out and the 
repairs were started. But the standard of work and the attendance of the contractor was 
poor, and the loss adjuster ended the repair contract, leaving the work unfinished. 
A new contractor was instructed at the start of 2022, but a virtual site visit was delayed to 
late February. By the start of July nothing much had happened and UKI questioned the lack 
of a schedule of works. The contractor sent a schedule and a revised schedule in August 
2022, which Miss B corrected. In total, this represented eight months delay from the end of 
the previous contractor while Miss B and her family were out of their home. The contractor 
said it would carry out a full strip out, but this was subsequently declined by UKI. UKI was 
entitled to make this decision, but it caused Miss B uncertainty about what would be 
covered. 
It appears the loss adjusters had good reason to terminate the work by the first contractors, 
and another contractor withdrew from the work. This is unfortunate but alternative 
arrangements should have been pursued by the loss adjusters but werent, and UKI should 
have taken some oversight of the claim to ensure progress was maintained. 
UKI has acknowledged significant issues and delay with the claim, and accepted Miss Bs 
complaint points and that compensation is due. In my view this claim is characterised by 
poor, or at times non-existent communication between the parties so that at hardly any stage 
were Miss Bs expectations managed or met. At times UKI struggled to get a response to 
communications with its loss adjusters. I accept there were problems with covid restrictions, 
delayed completion of stage one works and a loss of the lead-in period for the second stage 
repairs, and private works, but put simply, the claim shouldnt have taken as long as it has.
I have also considered UKIs comment that Mr S caused difficulties by making regular visits 
to the house outside of the safety regulations. Miss B said he had to keep going there to do 
jobs, including pulling wires through that had been plastered in. She said they were asked to 
find an electrician to install the new fuse box. In December 2021 UKIs loss adjusters noted 
that the contractors said the electrician Miss B appointed said Mr S was on site carrying out 
electrical connection work and he couldnt certify the work, (and nor would the contractors 
electrician). The electrician said he hadnt connected the boiler and wouldnt be returning. 
I think UKIs conclusion that Mr S interfered with the work by carrying out DIY electrics, 
including movement of sockets and switches, is fair. Mr S may say that he got involved to 
minimise delay, but I think he was carrying out some uninsured improvements and used 
contractors to help. UKI said he was repeatedly asked not to visit, and I think his involvement 
contributed to some of the delay. Miss B then told UKI they couldnt get an electrician so 
used the loss adjusters electrician. But by this stage I think it was reasonable for UKI not to 
certify the work carried out by and for Mr S. 
UKI said it agreed to deal with some of the uninsured damage and redecoration from 
movement in the house to progress matters as a gesture of goodwill although it wasnt 
caused by the claim. However, it declined Miss Bs request that it remove the insulation that its contractor had fitted as it said the installation meets building standards. I think this was a 
fair and reasonable decision that UKI was entitled to make for the claim.  
Im pleased UKI responded to Miss Bs concerns about movement in her home by sending a 
structural engineer to assess the damage. He concluded that the damage is due to loft 
alterations and unconnected to the insured events. He said cracking of external render was 
typical of settlement cracks in 1970s houses with no movement joints, due to thermal 
movement/shrinkage, and aged delamination. If Miss B is unhappy about UKIs response to 
this issue, then she will need to make a complaint to UKI about this.
Miss B brought a separate complaint about her previous claim, and mentioned the 
inadequate size of the alternative accommodation. I understand that Miss B found the 
accommodation and so I cant hold UKI responsible for the size. However, theres no doubt 
Miss B expected this requirement to be for a much shorter period and so I have considered 
this in the overall compensation to be awarded.
There has been a long and complex history of the claims and repairs to this property, and 
UKI has encountered difficulties as contractors havent been available or willing to undertake 
the work. It is our approach that insurers should provide repairs via their own contractors to 
indemnify policyholders. But if the policyholder prefers a cash settlement instead, this may 
be the amount it would cost the insurer to have its own contractors do the work. Where an 
insurer chooses to cash settle, we expect this to be sufficient for the policyholder to engage 
their own contractors through the marketplace.
When UKI decided not to authorise a new strip out of Miss Bs home a new schedule of 
works was required. From August to November 2022 progress has been further delayed. 
UKI made Miss B a cash settlement offer in November but said she didnt respond. I see that 
Miss B emailed her rejection of the offer to UKI in December 2022. She said the offer of 
£15,000 including VAT is too low to do the work. She told us that she is obtaining her own 
quote and has chased this and a report from her contractor many times. 
When the relationship breaks down between insurer/ contractor and policyholder this can be 
a satisfactory alternative method of resolving the claim. Miss B is entitled to decline a cash 
settlement for the claim, but by also rejecting UKIs contractors schedule of works and not 
providing any professional information of her own she became responsible for some of the 
delays. For UKIs part if it wants to resolve the claim and ensuing complaints it should 
consider offering Miss B a cash settlement at commercial rates.
Putting things right
I was sorry to learn about the three times Miss Bs home had been flooded over the last few 
years. She has described the tremendous strain this has placed on her, and her family and 
the issues caused. Taking all the factors I have described into account, I agree with the 
investigator that compensation of £800 is a reasonable reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience Miss B and Mr S have been caused from the summer of 2021 up until 
November 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require UK Insurance Limited to pay Miss B and Mr S £800 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience they have suffered from its poor handling of their claim.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman