DRN-3417945
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Westfield Contributory Health Scheme dealt with his private 
health insurance claim.
What happened
Mr K has a private health insurance cash back plan insured by Westfield. On or about 
1 June 2021 Mr K saw a doctor abroad who sent him a report of her findings and charged a 
consultation fee of about £52.
On 8 June 2021 Mr K spoke to Westfield about submitting a claim for the consultation. 
Westfields call handler said the policy only covered claims for a test or investigation 
following a GP referral and the consultant had to be a fellow or member of college of 
surgeons and physicians. She told Mr K the same requirements applied if the consultant was 
abroad. The call handler also said the invoice needed to be English and paid in pounds 
sterling. Mr K said that advice was wrong as hed made overseas claims before. The call 
handler said the advice shed given was correct and if the claim didnt meet the criteria it 
wouldnt be paid.
On 9 June 2021 Mr K phoned Westfield to complain that the call handler he spoke to the day 
before had given wrong information. He was also unhappy with the way the call handler 
spoke to him, saying she hadnt been friendly or courteous and gave poor service. The call 
handler for this call said the claim invoice did need to be translated into English but it could 
convert the price Mr K paid into pounds sterling. Mr K said he had had electronic invoices 
due to Covid-19 practices and asked if he could email them to Westfield but the call handler 
said he would have to send hard copies in the post.
On 10 June 2021 Mr K and Westfield spoke to try to resolve his complaint. It apologised hed 
been given wrong information in the previous calls and said it would feedback to the call 
handler. It outlined the terms of cover for consultation benefit claims. Westfield said it would 
cover payment for diagnostic reports but wouldnt usually accept a claim for medical reports, 
however as it had given Mr K wrong information he could email the receipts he had and it 
would settle the claim as a gesture of goodwill. Mr K said he may have said the doctor made 
a medical report but the doctor had given a diagnostic letter for his problem so Westfield 
should cover the claim anyway. He asked for compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience caused by Westfields poor service but it wouldnt pay any compensation. 
Mr K complained to us. He said:
Hed been anxious and worried by the calls with Westfield where it tried to deny him 
the cover he was entitled to under the policy.
It was unacceptable for Westfield not to pay him compensation when it had upheld 
his complaint about poor service. He wanted Westfield to pay him at least £100 
compensation and train its customer service representatives to be courteous and  
competent.
Westfield said:
Mr Ks claim for the consultation benefit didnt meet the policy terms for cover. 
The policy terms said a GP must recommend referral to a Consultant Physician or 
Consultant Surgeon. For a consultation claim from abroad, the policyholder should 
be referred by a GP to a consultant who holds the relevant medical consultancy 
status for that country. It understood Mr Ks consultation claim was for consultation 
with a GP not a Consultant Physician or Consultant Surgeon. The doctor he saw is 
registered with the College of Family Physicians of Canada but not registered with 
the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons Canada. The policy didnt cover costs 
for seeing a private GP. 
As it had paid the claim even though it wasnt covered it didnt need to pay 
compensation as well.
Our investigator said Westfield had acted fairly. 
Mr K disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said:
Our investigator hadnt understood the terms or differences of physician, doctor and 
consultant. 
The intent of the policy for cover outside the UK is that the service is delivered by a 
qualified medical professional. Professional medical titles used in the UK differ from 
these used in other countries including the country relevant to his claim. Cultural and 
language differences for the country should be taken into account.
The doctor he saw for the consultation was a physician, which is a doctor, who is 
highly qualified and her qualification wasnt questioned by Westfield at the time it 
spoke to him about the claim. Mr K detailed the doctors qualifications. 
He wanted the ombudsman who decided his complaint to listen to his calls with 
Westfield and hear that the reasons it gave about why it wouldnt pay compensation 
are now different. His complaint is about the poor service he received in the two calls 
with Westfield, the dispute isnt about the qualifications of the doctor he saw.
Westfield told him to send hard copies of the invoice which he did during the Covid-
19 restrictions even though it wasnt necessary as it processed the claim using the 
electronic copies he sent.
He now wants Westfield to pay him £125 compensation.
Mr K asked for the ombudsman making the decision to phone him as he said he wanted to  
make sure his complaint was understood. 
Mr K also sent an invoice and claim for orthotics supports which he said was based on the 
prescription by same doctor and Westfield had settled that recent claim without raising the 
doctor wasnt suitably qualified.
Before I made my decision we asked Westfield for its comments about paying Mr Ks recent 
claim. It said the surgical appliance claim met the policy terms for the surgical appliance 
benefit as the orthotics supports had been prescribed by a GP. It didnt have any other 
claims after June 2021 for consultation services provided by that doctor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator told Mr K that the ombudsman deciding his complaint was unlikely to phone 
him and he should send any further comments he had in writing, which hes done. Ive 
considered Mr K request that I phone him. Im satisfied that I have enough information to 
decide this complaint without first speaking to Mr K. He has comprehensively detailed his 
points about his complaint in writing. Ive summarised his main points above, but Ive 
considered all his comments in reaching my decision.I have to decide whether Westfield acted fairly, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
Westfield says over the calls on 8 and 9 June it didnt give Mr K reasonable service, it gave 
him wrong information and in particular it could have handled the first call better. It 
apologised for the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr K and told him that it would give 
feedback and do further training with the call handler concerned. 
Ive listened to the calls and I think those were reasonable steps for Westfield to take on the 
service issues Mr K had raised. 
Mr K says Westfield also gave poor service in asking him to send hard copies of his invoice. 
But the policy says:
The quickest way to claim is online. Submit your optical, dental, chiropody and 
therapy treatment claims online If youre claiming for any other benefit  youll 
need to complete a paper claim form and post it to us with your original receipt. 
As Mr K was making a consultation benefit claim Westfields original request that he send 
hard copies on the invoice was in line with the policy terms, even though it ultimately agreed 
to accept an online invoice.
Westfield didnt agree to pay compensation to Mr K for his distress and inconvenience 
caused by its poor service because it says it agreed to pay Mr Ks consultation claim, which 
wasnt covered by the policy terms. 
Mr K says Westfield should have paid the claim anyway so it should also pay him 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. So Ive considered whether Westfield 
acted reasonably in saying it didnt need to pay the claim.
The policy gives consultation benefit, to the policy limit, and the policy terms set out the 
criteria for the benefit:
When
 your GP recommends referral to a Consultant Physician or Consultant Surgeon and
 you pay a registered Consultant Physician or Consultant Surgeon, who holds an 
appropriate qualification (see Definitions section) and
 you submit your claim in accordance with section 8
For
 diagnostic consultations on all levels of the plan
 payments you make to a Consultant Physician or Consultant Surgeon for 
treatment...
The policy also lists the exclusions under the benefit.
The policy defines Consultant Physician/Consultant Surgeon as:
A registered Consultant Physician or Consultant Surgeon, including any individual 
holding an appropriate Consultant Physician or Consultant Surgeon position within a 
private or registered hospital/treatment centre...
I think the policy is clear that the consultation benefit is only available when a GP 
recommends a diagnostic consultation with a registered Consultant Physician/Surgeon. 
Westfield says for claims for consultations abroad the referring doctor and the consultant 
must hold the relevant medical status for the country visited. For a Consultant 
Physician/Surgeon in the relevant county for Mr Ks claim that means registration with Royal 
College of Physicians and Surgeons Canada. I think thats a reasonable requirement. 
Mr Ks consultation claim is for a consultation with a doctor registered with the College of 
Family Physicians of Canada. The doctor isnt registered with the Royal College of 
Physicians and Surgeons Canada.Ive taken into account Mr Ks points about different countries may have different medical 
professional titles and there may be cultural and language differences. But from the 
evidence Ive seen I think Westfield reasonably understood the doctor with who Mr K had his 
consultation is a family doctor, which in the relevant country is commonly a GP or akin to a 
GP. 
Ive seen all Mr K says about the qualifications of the doctor he saw. But the policy is clear 
that for the benefit to apply he has to be referred by a GP (or the relevant countrys 
equivalent) to a Consultant Physician/Consultant Surgeon and the appropriately registered 
Consultant Physician or Consultant Surgeon does the consultation. For Mr Ks claim the 
appropriate registration is with the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons Canada.
The evidence is the consultation Mr K claimed for was with a doctor who is or is akin to a 
GP. The doctor isnt registered at the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons Canada. 
So I think Westfield could reasonably say that under the policy terms the claim for 
consultation wasnt covered. Which means under the policy terms Westfield didnt need to 
pay Mr Ks claim for the consultation.
Westfield didnt raise that Mr Ks doctor didnt met the criteria when he spoke to it in June 
2021. But at that time Westfield didnt know who hed had the consultation with. At the time it 
focused on Mr K having had a medical report (which wasnt covered in certain circumstances 
under the policy) as hed referred to a medical report in the call, although he did then say he 
had a consultation letter.
I understand that when Westfield sent its final response letter to Mr K it had processed the 
claim. So Westfield could have raised the issue about the doctor then, but as it had already 
agreed to pay the claim I dont think there was any need for it to do so.
Westfield paid Mr Ks claim for orthotics supports under the surgical appliance benefit. Those 
benefit terms say:
Your maximum benefit allowance is available over a one year benefit period. 
Whenyou pay for an appliance prescribed by your GP, Consultant 
Physician/Consultant Surgeon, Chiropodist/ Podiatrist
So orthotics supports being prescribed by a GP (or akin to a GP) would be covered. It 
doesnt mean Mr Ks claim for consultation with the same doctor is covered as the 
consultation benefit has different policy terms for cover as Ive set out above.
I appreciate the service Mr K received from Westfield in the calls caused him distress and 
inconvenience, as Westfield accepted. But Westfield has already paid him £51.97 for a claim 
which I think it could have fairly declined.
By Westfield paying Mr Ks claim which under the policy terms it didnt need to pay it has in 
effect paid him £51.97 in compensation for his distress and inconvenience, which I think is a 
fair amount in all the circumstances. Theres no basis for me to reasonably say Westfield 
should pay him more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman