DRN-3101798
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the premiums they paid to AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited (AXA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA. They 
complained as they were unhappy about paying full premiums for their policy when they felt 
they wouldnt be able to benefit during the last part of their policy year. 
AXA gave Mr and Mrs D an £80 rebate and confirmed it will conduct an independent review 
in 2022 once the Covid-19 pandemic settled. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think AXA needed to do anything further 
as it had already provided a £80 rebate and had promised to conduct an independent 
review.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed and said AXA wasnt able to provide the full range of benefits 
between March and June 2020 and so they shouldnt have to pay. They said the £80 
reduction didnt reflect the service they was paying for. And say its unfair for AXA to 
continue to take premiums during a period when its expenditure reduced significantly. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy was a plan for one year and monthly premiums were payable for AXA 
to provide cover during that year. The policy covers the risk of an uncertain event happening 
over the duration of the contract  the policy year. So AXA is entitled to charge the premium 
to cover the risk, even if no successful claim is made on the policy. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs D needed treatment between March and June 
2020. But even if they needed to make a claim, AXA has confirmed that some services were 
still available. And so the policy was stull usable. 
AXA cant be held responsible for the effects of Covid-19 and doesnt own or operate private 
facilities. The impact of Covid-19 on private facilities and the requisitioning of those facilities 
by the NHS was outside of its control. In its response to Mr Ds complaint AXA confirmed the 
following:
Some private appointments were still possible, and the policy would provide cover for 
phone or video consultations 
Mr and Mrs D still had access to health information online and the GP service hotline
AXA will examine profits made during the Covid-19 pandemic and contact customers 
if any money is due back 
And so I dont think its fair or reasonable to ask AXA to refund any further premiums to Mr 
and Mrs D at this stage. AXA has confirmed it will review its profits during the pandemic and 
if any further money is due, it will contact Mr and Mrs D accordingly. I think this is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman