DRN-3733201
The complaint
Mr J complains that Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) gave him misleading information 
about the time limits involved in bringing a complaint to this service.
What happened
Mr J made a complaint to Soteria in 2020, regarding repudiation of his claim. He referred 
that complaint to this service out of time, so we were unable to consider it. 
However, Mr J said he was given incorrect information by Soteria about the time limits 
involved in bringing a complaint to this service, and said that if he hadnt been given the 
wrong information, hed have brought the complaint to us before the required deadline. Mr J 
said the misleading information was given to him during a phone call in May 2021.
So he raised a further complaint with Soteria about the wrong information he believed it gave 
him. Soteria issued its final response to the new complaint in February 2022, saying its 
previous final response in November 2020 made it clear that Mr J had six months from the 
date of that letter to refer the complaint about the declined claim to this service. It didnt 
accept that it had given Mr J misleading information about our time limits.
Mr J didnt agree with Soterias response, so he referred his complaint about the information 
it gave him, to this service. Our investigator considered the issue and concluded that 
although the information given to Mr J wasnt strictly incorrect, Soteria couldve made things 
clearer. So our investigator recommended Soteria pay Mr J £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr J didnt accept our investigators recommendation, and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an Ombudsman. So the matter has now been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators recommendation and Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
As Ive mentioned, the issues surrounding the declinature of Mr Js claim were raised in a 
previous complaint which was brought to this service, and it was determined that the 
complaint was brought to us out of time. So I cant consider that issue any further here, even 
though Im upholding this complaint. Ive explained more about this below.
Ive also considered the content of the final response letter dated 30 November 2020 and Im 
satisfied it does make it clear to Mr J that hed have six months from the date of that letter to 
refer the complaint to this service.
Following receipt of the final response in November 2020, Mr J spoke to Soterias agent over 
the phone. This phone call took place in May 2021 when there were only a few days left 
before the six month time limit was due to expire.
Ive listened to a recording of that phone call. During the call, Mr J asks the adviser how long 
hes got to complain to the Ombudsman. Mr J also confirms that hes aware the final 
response letter says if you dont refer your complaint in time, the Ombudsman wont have 
our permission to consider your complaint and will only be able to do so in very limited 
circumstances.
Mr J also mentions during the call that in his previous conversations with agents, he hadnt 
raised a formal complaint, so he was unsure why hed received a final response letter in 
November 2020. The agent explains this by saying the complaint doesnt need to be a 
formal one, and that if a customer expresses some dissatisfaction, they log this as a 
complaint and investigate it as such. I dont consider this unreasonable, and I can appreciate 
why a financial business would take these steps in order to provide good customer service 
and show that theyre taking the customers concerns seriously.
But I can see that some confusion was caused towards the end of the call, when the agent 
explains to Mr J that the Ombudsman doesnt have a time limit to do their investigations and 
that they arent limited by these four days youre concerned with. So, I think Soteria needs 
to compensate Mr J for the confusion caused by that statement. 
That being said, I dont consider that statement to have been the sole cause of Mr J failing to 
bring his complaint about the declined claim to us in time. So I wont be requiring Soteria to 
do anything differently in relation to that claim. This is because on 25 May 2021 and 27 May 
2021 Soteria sent Mr J follow up emails to explain that its position hadnt changed since its 
final response of November 2020 and that any further challenge would need to be made 
through the Ombudsman. 
So, whilst I think some minor confusion was caused, Mr J had a firm deadline in writing 
telling him when hed need to refer his complaint to this service by. He also had the option of 
contacting this service to ask about our time limits directly. And he received no clear 
assurances either verbally or in writing from Soteria that the six month time limit would no 
longer apply or had been extended. Considering the overall impact of the confusion caused, 
as well as all the correct information that had been given to Mr J, Im satisfied that £100 is a 
fair and reasonable amount of compensation in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Soteria Insurance Limited must pay Mr J £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Soteria Insurance Limited to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman