DRN-3675662
The complaint
Mrs J complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under her home emergency policy, 
about how they dealt with a leak at her property and damage to flooring.
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
Mrs J didnt complain within the six-month period under which consumers normally have to 
complain to this service if theyre unhappy at a final response issued by a business to a 
complaint (for the final responses issued by Aviva in November 2018 and January 2021). 
But Aviva agreed to our considering Mrs Js complaint to this service.
This decision only covers those issues raised by Mrs J in her complaint to this service in 
December 2021, and Avivas subsequent final response issued in February 2022. It doesnt 
cover other issues raised by Mrs J since that point, for example issues with a basin, fridge 
and external pipework. Similarly, the decision considers the issue of distress and 
inconvenience to Mrs J to that point.
What happened
The details of this case are well-known to both Mrs J and Aviva, so Ill set out the key 
aspects of what happened.
In April 2018 there was a leak in the kitchen at Mrs Js property. It took several visits before 
Avivas engineers diagnosed the source of the leak as coming from pipework under the 
kitchen floor (eventually using thermal imaging to do so). But rather than digging up the floor 
to repair the leak, Aviva re-routed pipework, having isolated the original pipework. However, 
Mrs J wasnt happy with the quality of the work carried out, so complained to Aviva. Aviva 
appointed a surveyor (B) to assess the issue. In their report in November 2018, B concluded 
the work was of poor quality and set out the work needed to remedy the issues identified. 
Based on Bs report, Aviva offered Mrs J a cash settlement to cover the repair work needed, 
but she didnt accept it.
However, the problems continued with the floor being damp. A second report from B in 
November 2019 confirmed the continuing issues (although it concluded the issue was 
caused by a separate leak, rather than the original leak). B concluded the floor would need 
to be taken up, dried and re-laid.
The problems continued, and B produced a further report about the issues in July 2021. 
Aviva also considered the issues in response to complaints raised by Mrs J following the 
original leak and the ongoing issues. Aviva issued final responses to these complaints at 
various points, including November 2018 and in January 2021. The latter offered to carry out 
repair work to the affected floors (including alternative accommodation during the repair 
work) as well as £1,500 in compensation for inconvenience caused to Mrs J. Aviva also 
advised Mrs J about the process she could follow to pursue a claim for the impact she said 
the ongoing issues had on her health. Aviva also suggested Mrs J seek legal representation 
in this respect.
In December 2021, B attended Mrs Js property to install drying equipment, as part of the 
reinstatement work to the flooring. But when they returned to collect it, B said it had been 
damaged and there was an attempt to prevent them leaving the property. B said theyd 
advised Mrs J about dust, from the damaged flooring but from their inspection they thought 
the property was fine. Because of what B said happened, Aviva said they wouldnt carry out 
any further work at the property. Given this, they offered Mrs J a cash settlement of £3,120 
to enable her to complete the rest of the work.
Unhappy at Avivas response, Mrs J complained to this service. The main point of her 
complaint was that Aviva hadnt fixed the cause of the leak and would no longer attend her 
property, only offering a cash settlement for her to engage her own contractors to complete 
the repair work. Mrs J also said shed suffered health problems caused by the dust from the 
temporary flooring and had to find temporary accommodation. Shed also been without a 
washing machine for two years and had to move the fridge out of the kitchen into the garage. 
The ongoing stress of the situation had also affected her health. She wanted Aviva to fix the 
moisture/leak properly by moving the underground pipe in the kitchen to overground, as well 
as ensure the floor was dried before putting down a membrane before the leveller. Then to fit 
new kitchen flooring.
As Mrs J had complained to this service first, our investigator asked Aviva to consider the 
issues raised by Mrs J. In their final response, issued in February 2022, Aviva confirmed an 
increased cash settlement offer of £3,828 (compared to the settlement theyd previously 
offered in January 2021). They said the figure didnt include VAT, so if Mrs J engaged a 
contractor to complete the work that was VAT registered, theyd add VAT to the settlement 
figure on production of a VAT invoice. In addition, Aviva awarded Mrs J £1,500 for the 
inconvenience shed suffered (making a total of £5,328).
Our investigator then considered Mrs Js complaint, but didnt uphold it, concluding 
Aviva didnt need to take any further action. She noted Aviva had accepted liability for 
the damage caused to the floor at Mrs Js property, but the issues had been ongoing 
for some time  despite Avivas efforts to resolve them. Given the difficulties between 
Mrs J and Avivas contractors, she thought it was appropriate for Aviva to seek to 
settle the claim by way of a cash settlement. She thought Avivas offer of £3,828 
(excluding VAT) and £1,500 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mrs J disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
In my findings I concluded Aviva hadnt acted fairly in offering Mrs J a cash settlement for 
her to engage a contractor to complete the repair work. I did so because the issues had  at 
different times  been present for some four years. I noted Aviva accepted responsibility for 
the damage to Mrs Js flooring and offering a cash settlement  as an alternative to 
completing the work through their own appointed contractors  was common in the 
insurance industry.
However, given the specific circumstances described by Mrs J, particularly her health issues 
and the impact the situation had on her, I wasnt persuaded this was fair and reasonable. 
This was for several reasons, including Mrs Js significant health and wellbeing issues. While 
not able to say they were a direct result of the issues with the leak and the damage to her 
flooring, I thought the situation would have significantly worsened them. Given that, I didnt 
think it fair or reasonable to expect Mrs J to have to find and engage a contractor to carry out 
the work needed to fix the problems. And given the issue had been ongoing for so long, 
particularly as Aviva accepted responsibility for the damage, I thought it reasonable to 
expect Aviva to fix the problems, rather than Mrs J having to take on that responsibility. While there were clearly issues between Mrs J and Avivas contractor, I didnt think they 
precluded Aviva appointing a different contractor to carry out the work needed to reinstate 
the flooring (if Mrs J would prefer that option). 
On the issue of compensation for the inconvenience to Mrs J, I thought the impact on her 
had been significant and substantial. I thought Aviva had recognised this, when awarding her 
£1,500 in compensation. The figure was in line with what wed expect, so I thought the offer 
was fair and reasonable.
 
Because I reached different conclusions to our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to enable both parties to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Id first want to reassure Mrs J that I sympathise with what shes told us about her health 
issues and the evidence shes provided about those issues and the impact theyve had on 
her and her wellbeing. I appreciate how distressing this is for Mrs J in the difficult 
circumstances shes described about the leak, how Aviva have responded to it and the 
associated problems at her property. Ive borne this in mind when deciding whether Aviva 
acted fairly towards Mrs J.
The key issue in Mrs Js complaint is that Aviva havent fixed the problem of the leak and the 
associated moisture thats affected her property since it first arose back in 2018. Mrs J 
maintains Aviva should have fixed the issue properly and wants them to do so, relocating the 
pipe from underground to overground and fitting a new kitchen floor. For their part, Aviva say 
theyve tried to address the issues and have offered Mrs J a cash settlement so that she can 
engage a contractor to complete the repair work. Theyve also offered compensation for the 
inconvenience shes suffered.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the information and evidence provided by both 
Mrs J and Aviva in support of their cases. Having done so, on balance Ive concluded Aviva 
havent acted fairly in offering Mrs J a cash settlement for her to engage a contractor to 
complete the repair work. Ill explain the reasons for coming to this conclusion.
Looking at the history of the case from the time of the original leak in 2018, its clear Aviva 
havent provided the quality of service Mrs J should have expected. Avivas case notes, 
together with the reports from B, indicate continuing issues with diagnosing the leak and 
fixing it. Bs reports also indicate problems with the quality of the repair and reinstatement 
work carried out, for example the quality of the pipework and the work to repair and reinstate 
the flooring. While its not clear whether the issues have all arisen from the original cause of 
the leak (or from other causes) the issues have  at different times  been present for some 
four years. Aviva accept responsibility for the damage to Mrs Js flooring. So, the issue Ive 
focused on is whether theyve done enough to put things right.
While Avivas approach has taken different forms, they most recently appointed B to carry 
out the repair and reinstatement work to replace the flooring. However, in December 2021, 
based on Bs views, they said they wouldnt be prepared to carry out any further work 
because of difficulties they say they had with Mrs J. For her part, Mrs J has said she isnt 
happy with aspects of the behaviour of Avivas contractors (Avivas case notes support this). 
Given these issues, Avivas view is that its reasonable to offer Mrs J a cash settlement, 
based on the scope of work required, for her to engage her own contractor to carry out the 
work. Offering a cash settlement  as an alternative to completing the work through their 
own appointed contractors  is an option common in the insurance industry (though most 
typically for household insurance).However, given the specific circumstances described by Mrs J, particularly her health issues 
and the impact the situation has had on her, Im not persuaded this is fair and reasonable. I 
say that for several reasons. Firstly, its clear that Mrs J has significant health and wellbeing 
issues. While Im not able to say theyre directly the result of the issues with the leak and the 
damage to her flooring, I think the situation will have significantly worsened them. Given that, 
I dont think its fair or reasonable to [now] expect Mrs J to have to find and engage a 
contractor to carry out the work needed to fix the problems with her flooring. Secondly, that 
the issue has now been ongoing (on and off) for so long, particularly as Aviva have accepted 
responsibility for the damage to Mrs Js flooring. Given that, I think its reasonable to expect 
Aviva to fix the problems, rather than Mrs J having to take on that responsibility  given the 
additional stress that is likely to cause her. While there are clearly issues between Mrs J and 
Avivas contractor, I dont think they preclude Aviva appointing a different contractor to carry 
out the work needed to reinstate the flooring (if Mrs J would prefer that option to a cash 
settlement). 
The second key issue is the level of compensation for the inconvenience Mrs Js suffered. 
Shes described the stress its caused her (and to a family member living with her). Shes 
also described the impact of, as shes described it, being without a washing machine as well 
as having her fridge moved to the garage at her property. Taking these factors into account, 
I think the impact on her has been significant and substantial. I think Aviva have recognised 
this, when awarding her £1,500 in compensation. The figure is in line with what wed 
consider to be a very significant impact on a consumer, over a prolonged period. As such, I 
think Avivas offer is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking them to pay a higher sum.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint in 
part. I intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
appoint a different contractor to carry out the work needed to reinstate the flooring at 
Mrs Js property (if Mrs J would prefer that option to a cash settlement).
Pay Mrs J £1,500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mrs J accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Aviva responded to say the option of appointing a different contractor to repair the floor 
wasnt available, as they only worked with B to rectify damage  they didnt work with any 
other companies. As B had stated they wouldnt return to Mrs Js property, Aviva didnt have 
any other contractor they could appoint to replace Mrs Js floor.
Mrs J responded to say she accepted the provisional decision conclusion that Aviva should 
appoint a contractor to complete the work. But she didnt agree with the amount of 
compensation. She said Avivas handling of the situation had profoundly affected both her 
mental health and her physical health, particularly her medical condition. She thought the 
latter had been made worse by what had happened and had affected her life expectancy. 
She wanted the repair work completed before the issue of compensation was considered.
Mrs J also made further representations and provided information about the situation at her 
property and the impact on her, including her health. This included photographs of the 
property and items affected by the situation (including a recording about issues affecting a 
basin and with pipework). Mrs J also described how shed been affected personally by 
conditions at the property, as well as the impact on her son.  
Mrs J also said she felt she had been treated differently (and discriminated against) because 
of her race.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva have acted fairly towards Mrs J.
Considering Avivas response first, Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable to say they 
cant appoint [another] contractor to carry out the necessary repair work, for the damage 
theyve accepted is their responsibility. In my provisional decision, I said that while a cash 
settlement was a generally accepted approach to settling a claim in the insurance industry, 
the specific circumstances of Mrs Js case meant this wasnt fair and reasonable. Particularly 
the impact on her health and wellbeing. Nor do I think its reasonable, as Aviva said in their 
response, to say they only work through B to rectify damage, so they didnt have any other 
contractor they could appoint. Im not persuaded by this view, so my view on this issue 
hasnt changed. Which is that Aviva should engage a different contractor  either through B 
or directly - to carry out the necessary work in accordance with the scope of work Ive seen. 
Turning to Mrs Js points, Id first want to reassure her Ive looked at all the representations, 
evidence and information shes made in response to my provisional decision. I recognise the 
very difficult circumstances shes in, allowing her longer to gather further information and 
evidence for her response. 
I appreciate what shes said about the impact of the situation at her property, particularly on 
her physical and mental health and wellbeing. Shes provided photographic and other 
evidence of those impacts, which I have no reason to doubt. But theres no evidence to 
support what Mrs J has said about the impact on her health from conditions at the property. 
As Ive noted above, Aviva have previously advised Mrs J about the process she could 
follow to pursue a claim for the impact she says the ongoing issues have had on her health. I 
also recognise what Mrs J has said about undergoing tests to assess her condition. Aviva 
also suggested Mrs J seek legal representation in this respect.
In the circumstances, given these factors, while I have every sympathy with Mrs Js situation, 
I still think £1,500 is a reasonable amount of compensation for the undoubted distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered.
In her response, Mrs J also referred to issues with a basin at her property and what appears 
to be external pipework at the property. Also, a fridge not operating properly. Im not aware 
these particular issues have been raised with Aviva (or that theyve considered them and 
responded to Mrs J). Accordingly, as I set out earlier, they arent issues I can consider as 
part of this complaint.
Ive also considered what Mrs J has told us about how she feels Aviva treated her differently 
(and discriminated against her) because of her race. I appreciate what Mrs J feels, but this 
service cant make a finding on whether an act or omission is discriminatory under the 
provisions of the Equality Act 2010, only a court can do this. However, as the Act is relevant 
to Mrs Js complaint, Ive taken it into account when considering whether Aviva acted in a fair 
and reasonable way. Ive considered whether Mrs J was treated any differently than would a 
policyholder of a different race in the same circumstances. Looking at what happened, Ive 
not seen anything to indicate that Mrs Js race played a part in the way she has been treated 
- although I accept that Aviva hasnt acted fairly and reasonably. Taking these considerations into account, my final decision remains unchanged, for the 
same reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint in part. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
appoint a different contractor to carry out the work needed to reinstate the flooring at 
Mrs Js property.
Pay Mrs J £1,500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mrs J accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman