DRN-3376801
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that Westfield Contributory Health Scheme misled her when she changed  
her health cash plan.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs Z has a health cash plan with Westfield which allows her to 
claim money shes spent on certain health costs. 
In the level three plan Mrs Z had up to 31 December 2019, she had optical benefit up to 
£145 over a two year period, starting with the date of her first optical claim. Mrs Z 
enquired about changing her plan. She hadnt used all of the optical allowance available 
under her level three plan. Westfield told Mrs Z that on taking out a new plan, shed be 
able to carry forward the unused allowance from her previous plan. 
On 1 January 2020, Mrs Z changed her plan. The new level four plan included optical 
benefit of up to £205 over a two year benefit period, starting on the date of the first 
optical claim. 
In October 2020 and January 2021, Mrs Z made claims for optical care. Westfield paid 
those claims from Mrs Zs new optical allowance of £205 under the level four plan. Mrs Z 
expected Westfield to pay the claims first from the remaining balance of the optical 
allowance under her previous level three plan. Mrs Z discovered that Westfield had given 
her incorrect information about carrying forward the unused allowances of the previous 
plan. She wants Westfield to honour what it told her about carrying forward unused 
allowances. 
In response to Mrs Zs complaint, Westfield apologised for the incorrect information it 
had given to Mrs Z. It said that she hadnt suffered detriment because she had the 
benefit of the new, increased optical allowance when she changed her plan. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that whilst Westfield had 
made an error in giving Mrs Z incorrect information, she hadnt lost out. Mrs Z didnt 
agree with the investigator. She said that it wasnt fair that shed lost the unused 
allowance when she changed her plan. Mrs Z asked that an ombudsman consider her 
claim, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant plan terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the plans. Both the level three and level four 
plans say as follows: 
 
Changes to your level of cover
If you transfer to a higher plan level qualifying periods for benefit at the higher level are as 
shown above. During the qualifying period we will pay benefit at the lower plan level, if 
you have benefit available.
The qualifying period for optical benefit under both the level three and level four plan is six 
months.
has Westfield acted unfairly or unreasonably?
Im not upholding Mrs Zs complaint because whilst Westfield gave Mrs Z incorrect 
information I think that the apology its already made is fair and reasonable in this case. I say 
that because:
The terms and conditions of the plans provide that if a plan holder transfers to a 
higher plan level - as Mrs Z did here  Westfield will pay benefit at the lower plan 
level during the qualifying period if the plan holder has any benefit available. The 
qualifying period for optical benefit is six months. 
Mrs Zs level four plan started in January 2020. She made claims for optical benefit in 
October 2020 and January 2021. Those claims were after the qualifying period. So, 
Westfield acted correctly in paying those claims from the new optical benefit 
allowance. 
Thats not the end of the matter as Westfield accepts that it gave Mrs Z incorrect 
information when she changed her plan in that it told her that she could carry forward 
unused allowances. That wasnt entirely correct as Westfield would only look to 
unused allowances of the previous plan in the qualifying period of the new plan.  
When mistakes like this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect 
information is true. In the particular circumstances here, theres no basis on which I 
could fairly direct Westfield to settle Mrs Zs October 2020 and January 2021 claims  
against the unused allowance in her previous plan, as the plan doesnt provide for 
that. But I can consider the effect of Westfields error on Mrs Z.  
Mrs Z was disappointed to discover the true position. In its final response to Mrs Z, 
Westfield apologised for the incorrect information it provided. I think that Westfields 
apology is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience Mrs Z 
suffered as a result of the incorrect information Westfield gave to her.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Zs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Zs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman