DRN-3657831
The complaint
Mr Hs representative complains on his behalf that Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) unfairly settled his claim on his motor insurance policy.
References to Mr H, or his representative, will include the other.
What happened
Mr H took out a motor insurance policy through an on-line price comparison site. Based on 
the information provided he was offered a quotation from Admiral, which he accepted.
When his car was stolen, he made a claim on his policy. 
Admiral did not pay Mr Hs claim in full as it said hed answered the question it asked about 
the registered keeper and legal owner incorrectly. 
Admiral said Mr H had declared in his application that he was the registered keeper and 
legal owner of the car. This was not correct as a lease company were the registered keeper. 
It said if he had declared the correct registered keeper it would have offered a policy but 
there would be an increase in the cost of premiums.
Admiral considered this to be a careless/qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to 
only pay a percentage of his claim. 
Mr Hs representative brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not 
be upheld. They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. They didnt think this 
was deliberate or reckless, they believed it was careless. They said Admirals offer to settle 
the claim proportionately was fair. 
Mr Hs representative doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. He said Admirals offer was unreasonable. He wants Admiral to 
charge Mr H the additional premiums that would be required for the policy if he had 
confirmed the correct registered keeper. And then settle the claim in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Admiral thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that he was the registered keeper and legal 
owner of the car. This was not correct as a lease company were the registered keeper. 
I looked at the questions asked when Mr H took out his policy. 
In reference to the registered keeper and legal owner it said;
Are you (Or will you be) the registered keeper and legal owner? Mr H answered Yes.
I saw there were guidance notes after this question that say; If you are unsure the log-book 
will record the cars registered keeper, which is not necessarily the same as its legal owner.
Mr H said he unknowingly provided the wrong information. He said he believed the car 
belonged to him. 
I have considered the question asked and think it is straightforward. And in addition the 
on-line guidance notes clearly advise to look at the cars log-book if unsure. 
I think, from what Ive seen, that the questions about the cars keeper were clear and it was 
reasonable for Admiral to say that Mr H had misrepresented his information.
For an insurer to pay a claim proportionately, as Admiral has done in this case, the insurer 
must show that misrepresentation led it to offer cover that it wouldnt otherwise have done or 
at least offered it on different terms. This is known as a qualifying misrepresentation.
Admiral provided evidence of its underwriting criteria. This shows if Mr H had provided the 
correct information about the registered keeper of the car it would have offered him a policy 
but it would have charged him a higher premium. 
This means I am satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Admiral said it accepts Mr Hs misrepresentation was careless and not deliberate. I think this 
is fair.
As Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Admiral can take in accordance with CIDRA.
In this case Admiral would have charged more for the policy. As theres been a claim it can 
pay the claim proportionately. After reviewing Admirals underwriting criteria I have seen that 
the proportionate settlement applied was correct. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Admiral was entitled to pay Mr Hs claim as a proportionate 
settlement in accordance with CIDRA. And - as CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Admiral to pay Mr Hs claim as a 
proportionate settlement produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not require Admiral to do anything further 
in this case.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman