DRN-3285515
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) have declined his 
claim for a damaged sofa.
What happened
Mr S purchased insurance for his new sofas which covered accidental damage and staining. 
In May 2021 he submitted a claim, he told Acasta his son was doing his homework and 
accidentally cut the sofa whilst doing a collage. 
Acasta sent a technician to inspect the sofa. He found cuts to the leather in three places on 
the sofa and an additional cut on a footstall. He inspected the damage and prepared a report 
for Acasta. 
Acasta asked Mr S some questions to better understand how the damage occurred. 
Specifically, what caused the cuts, why there were cuts in three different areas on the sofa, 
and if the child was left unattended. They also asked for photos of the scissors that caused 
the damage. 
Mr S explained the accident happened while his son was doing his homework. He was 
cutting some paper to stick and he didnt realise he was cutting the sofa instead. He 
explained the reason there were cuts in three different areas was because his son was going 
around the sofa doing his homework, cutting paper for his collage and in the process 
creating the same damage. He confirmed it all happened at the same time.
In a call a few days later Mr S explained the reason there were cuts in three areas was 
because two of his children accidentally caused the damage whilst doing a collage. It was 
unclear if the children were supervised but the information provided suggests they were as 
he initially said his wife was in the room at the time, and later said, we were all in the same 
room when it happened. When Acasta asked for more detail about how the cut had 
occurred to the back of the sofa. Mr Ss testimony changed again as he said the child was 
holding the paper and cutting and accidentally tripped and hit the back of the sofa.
He also explained initially that he didnt have the scissors that caused the damage anymore 
as his wife had thrown them away. In a later call when asked to describe the scissors and 
provide an image from the internet, he said they were using different types of cutters. He 
said they had scissors and a wallpaper cutter. Photos from the internet of similar items were 
provided in support of the claim.
Acasta reviewed all the information and declined the claim as they felt the events Mr S had 
described didnt match the damage caused. They said that both them and the technician 
didnt feel the damage had been caused accidentally.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think Acasta had declined 
the claim unfairly so didnt ask them to do anything more. As Mr S remained unhappy the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr S but Ive explained my reasoning below.
Acasta have a responsibility to handle claims fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. The terms and conditions clearly set out what is and isnt covered. Mr S 
policy covers him for accidental damage but Acasta dont believe the damage has occurred 
by accident.
It isnt for me to determine what caused the damage, my role is to consider if Acasta have 
been fair and reasonable when declining the claim.
The policy terms and conditions define accidental damage. It says:
The sudden and unforeseen damage to the product(s) or the sudden and unforeseen 
contact between the product(s) and a substance resulting in a stain to the product(s).
It goes on to explain what isnt covered. It says:
Damage not consistent with the original claim or misrepresentation of an 
occurrence.
When considering a claim, its reasonable for Acasta to ask for some information to satisfy 
themselves the claim is valid and is in line with the terms and conditions, as they did in Mr S 
case. They asked similar questions on a number of occasions as they werent satisfied the 
claim was valid. As detailed above, the information Mr S provided changed over time.
I find, the account provided when the initial claim is made the most persuasive as this is 
when the details of the complaint are fresher and clearer. Mr S initially reported that his son 
was doing his homework, cutting paper with scissors and accidentally cut the sofa. He said 
he was going around the sofa cutting the paper and thats how damage occurred in more 
than one area. 
Whilst I understand accidents happen, particularly when children are involved, I dont feel 
Acastas conclusion, that this isnt accidental, to be unreasonable. I say that because, a one-
off incident whilst crafting could be deemed an accident, depending on the circumstances, 
as its plausible that could be sudden and unforeseen but there were three cuts in the sofa 
and a cut to the footstall. 
Although this could have happened in a short space of time. Its unlikely to have happened 
at the same time or for all of the damage to have been unforeseen, taking account of the 
position of the cuts and that there were adults present. 
I appreciate Mr S said more than one child was involved, but as the account had changed, 
Im more persuaded by the initial detail provided at the time of making the claim. 
Acasta said they didnt find the cuts consistent with a child cutting with scissors, as leather is 
very resilient and it would be hard for a child to make those cuts. Ive considered this along 
with the technician report and photographs. Whilst I am not an expert, the cuts are straight 
and fairly long. Given the type of material, I dont think Acastas view here was unreasonable 
as I think it likely it wouldve taken some force to have caused that level of damage with 
scissors.Mr S later said more than one cutter was used, he said a wallpaper cutter was also used. 
Ive seen a photo of a retractable blade, it isnt clear if Mr S provided it, but I am of the 
understanding this was provided by Mr S. If that is similar to the blade used to cut the sofa, I 
think its possible that sort of blade could cause that level of damage. But this isnt a general 
craft tool that would be used by children when cutting and sticking for a collage. And this isnt 
what was explained when Mr S initially made the claim.
Overall, Im satisfied Acasta have considered the claim fairly. They asked for relevant 
information to establish the cause and declined it as the sequence of events, as Mr S 
described, didnt account for the damage caused. It was therefore determined, in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, that accidental damage hadnt occurred which wasnt 
unreasonable for the reasons explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman