DRN-3691303
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the service she received from Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish 
Widows) after it was notified of the death of her husband. 
Mrs C is represented in her complaint. 
What happened
Mrs Cs late husband (Mr C) held a personal pension plan (PPP) with Scottish Widows. On 
30 July 2020, he very sadly passed away. Mr Cs financial adviser, which Ill refer to as 
Firm P, wrote to Scottish Widows on 14 September 2020, informing it of Mr Cs passing 
and providing an original death certificate. It also asked Scottish Widows to update its 
records and provide any paperwork that needed to be completed.
Having received Firm Ps letter on 21 September 2020, Scottish Widows responded on 29 
September 2020. It asked for its enclosed Beneficiaries Form to be completed and returned 
by Mr Cs next of kin, along with certified copies of their birth and marriage certificates, if 
relevant. On receipt of these documents, Scottish Widows said it would provide information 
about the options available to the chosen beneficiaries of Mr Cs PPP.
On 16 November 2020 Scottish Widows received an email from a firm of solicitors Ill refer to 
as, M Solicitors. A copy of Mr Cs death certificate was provided, along with a request that 
Scottish Widows send all correspondence to it as it was dealing with Mr Cs estate. 
Scottish Widows sent M Solicitors its Beneficiaries Form, again asking for it to be completed 
and returned, along with certified copies of Mr Cs next of kins birth certificate and marriage 
certificate. M Solicitors responded on 16 December 2020, sending the completed 
Beneficiaries Form, together with the requested certified documents. However, this 
correspondence wasnt received by Scottish Widows until 8 February 2021. So, in the 
absence of any response from M Solicitors at the time, Scottish Widows chased it on 22 
December 2020. M Solicitors responded on 13 January 2020, stating that the requested 
documents had been sent with its 16 December 2020 letter. 
Scottish Widows replied to M Solicitors the following day, confirming that it hadnt received  
M Solicitors letter or any documentation and asking for this to be re-sent. Scottish Widows 
received the Beneficiaries Form completed by Mrs C, along with other relevant documents 
on 22 January 2021. Having reviewed the documentation, Scottish Widows confirmed in a 
letter to M Solicitors on 26 January 2021 that it had exercised its discretion and concluded 
that the death benefit under Mr Cs PPP should be paid to Mrs C. It enclosed an Options 
Form, asking Mrs C to complete and return it.
In the absence of any response from M Solicitors, Scottish Widows sent the Options Form to 
it again on 12 April 2021, reminding it that the death benefit couldnt be paid until all 
requested documents had been received. 
Mrs C later appointed one of Mr Cs friends (the representative) to take over the handling of 
her claim. The representative emailed Scottish Widows on 27 April 2021, asking whether the 
Options Form still needed to be completed. Scottish Widows responded on 29 April 2021, 
confirming that it did. The representative replied on 4 May 2021, saying he thought Scottish 
Widows paperwork was amateurish and questioning why settling the death benefit had 
taken almost 9 months when hed seen similar cases take just five weeks. He said he 
thought Mrs C may have lost out financially as a result.
Mrs Cs representative later returned the completed Options Form. Having received this on 
18 June 2021, Scottish Widows sent Mrs Cs representative confirmation of the death 
benefits payable to Mrs C, along with details of the new policy set up in her name to receive 
this.
In September 2021, Mrs Cs representative complained to Scottish Widows on her behalf. 
Specifically, he was:
Concerned by how long it had taken to settle Mrs Cs claim and the financial impact 
of this.
Unsure of how interest applied to Mrs Cs claim had been calculated.
Unhappy with the quality of Scottish Widows paperwork and communication, which 
he thought this was unclear and unprofessional.
Scottish Widows sent its final response on 9 October 2021. In summary it said:
It disagreed that it had taken too long to settle Mrs Cs claim and set out the action it 
had taken to progress matters.
The interest applied to Mrs Cs claim value had been calculated using the Bank of 
England base rate.
It noted that the Options form returned to it wasnt in the format it shouldve been. 
However, several copies of this form had been issued, so it didnt agree that this had 
delayed matters.
Following a number of conversations with Mrs C representative, Scottish Widows issued a 
further response. In short, it said:
Although Mrs Cs representative didnt think it shouldve sent Firm P the Beneficiaries 
Form, it had done this as Firm P had provided Mr Cs death certificate. It did so, 
believing that the certificate had been provided by Mrs C, who it understood was 
happy for Firm P to continue to deal with it regarding Mr Cs PPP. 
While Mrs Cs representative didnt think it shouldve provided M Solicitors with the 
Beneficiaries Form, it had done so as it had received an email from it stating it was 
handling Mr Cs estate. M Solicitors was registered and regulated by the Solicitors 
Regulation Authority and had provided a copy of Mr Cs death certificate, which was 
sufficient for it to provide the Beneficiaries Form.
It understood Mrs C was unhappy that she couldnt transfer away from Scottish 
Widows, however this was due to the type of pension Mr C had.
Unhappy with Scottish Widows response, Mrs Cs representative referred her complaint to 
our service. One of our investigators considered the matter and didnt feel the complaint 
should be upheld. He thought Mrs Cs claim had been processed and settled correctly, and 
he didnt consider Scottish Widows responsible for any delays.
Mrs Cs representative disagreed, in summary, saying:
He didnt understand why Scottish Widows hadnt at least sent Mrs C copies of any 
correspondence it had sent to Firm P and M Solicitors relating to her claim.Scottish Widows service was poor, bearing in mind what Mrs C had been going 
through at the time.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I 
should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments made by both parties, Ive 
limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. Thats to say:
Whether Scottish Widows acted inappropriately when it provided Firm P and             
M Solicitors with its Beneficiaries Form.
Whether Scottish Widows delayed the settlement of the death benefit under Mr Cs 
PPP and in doing so, caused Mrs C to suffer a financial loss.
Whether the quality of Scottish Widows communication during the death benefit 
process was poor.
Before I start, I want to offer Mrs C my sincere condolences for the loss of her husband. 
Theres no doubt in my mind that this will have been an incredibly difficult time for her, 
especially considering that this happened during the COVID-19 pandemic. Im also very 
sorry to hear about the impact this had on Mrs Cs own health.
Mrs C has said that based on the service she received from Scottish Widows during the 
death benefit claims process, it should be fined and made to review the recruitment process 
for its bereavement team. While I appreciate Mrs Cs strength of feeling on the matter, I must 
be clear that our service doesnt regulate financial businesses and so it isnt my role to 
punish Scottish Widows or tell it to change the way it operates; thats the role of the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to decide whether Scottish Widows has 
done anything wrong and, where appropriate, direct it to put matters right and award 
redress. Thats what Ive done here. 
The provision of the Beneficiaries Form to Firm P and M Solicitors
Mrs C says that because Scottish Widows never copied her into any of the correspondence 
it exchanged with Firm P or M Solicitors  particularly the Beneficiaries Form , she wasnt 
able to make an informed decision about what to do with the proceeds of the death benefit at 
the earliest possible stage. Mrs C notes that Scottish Widows never contacted her to ask if 
shed given Firm P and M Solicitors authority to deal with matters on her behalf and she 
thinks it shouldve. Her representative considers that this resulted in a data breach.
In her submissions to this service, Mrs C has confirmed that she shared the same financial 
adviser  Firm P  as her late husband. Its not clear whether she appointed Firm P as her 
adviser following Mr Cs death or engaged its services beforehand, however, based on what 
Mrs C has said, Im satisfied that it was acting on her behalf. I say this because Mrs C has 
confirmed that when her death benefit claim was being made, she understood that it was 
being dealt with by Firm P. And she says it wasnt until she realised that Firm P wasnt 
dealing with the matter as efficiently as shed expected that she got M Solicitors to take over. 
Ordinarily, Id expect to see a letter of authority permitting Firm P to handle matters relating 
to Mr Cs PPP. But Firm P was Mr Cs existing financial adviser, already authorised to deal 
with matters relating to his pension. Taken together with the fact that it was notifying Scottish Widows of Mr Cs death and providing Mr Cs original death certificate, I dont think this was 
an unreasonable basis for Scottish Widows to provide Firm P with the Beneficiaries Form so 
the claims process could begin.
I understand Mrs C feels strongly that Scottish Widows shouldve forwarded copies of any 
correspondence it sent to Firm P on to her, but I dont think it acted inappropriately by not 
doing so. Although it was notified of Mr Cs passing, Scottish Widows wasnt aware of the 
circumstances surrounding this. In the absence of anything indicating that Mrs C wanted to 
be copied into all correspondence, I consider that by not automatically forwarding all 
correspondence to Mrs C, Scottish Widows was acting with the level of sensitivity the 
situation demanded.
As can often be the case when someone passes away, the bereaved party will appoint 
someone to manage their loved ones affairs, either because theyre unable to do so 
themselves or, understandably, dont wish to. In Mrs Cs case, Im aware that in addition to 
grieving the sudden death of her husband, she was also dealing with significant work 
challenges and concerns about the vulnerability of her elderly mother. This was all against 
the backdrop of the pandemic. Mrs C has said this was a very difficult time for her which 
resulted in her being signed off sick from work with stress. 
If Scottish Widows had automatically forwarded all the correspondence it was exchanging 
with her representative onto Mrs C, I think thered have been a real risk that this couldve 
caused additional and avoidable distress. In deciding to communicate directly with Mrs Cs 
representative, until it was told to do otherwise, I believe that Scottish Widows was erring on 
the side of caution, and I dont think it was unreasonable for it to do so.
Im conscious that if Mrs C wanted, or expected, all correspondence between her 
representative and Scottish Widows to be forwarded to her, she couldve let her 
representative know, who in turn couldve informed Scottish Widows. Alternatively, Mrs C 
couldve contacted Scottish Widows directly to make it aware of her communication 
preference. Theres nothing to indicate this happened.
I understand Mrs Cs representative considers that Scottish Widows unlawfully disclosed  
Mrs Cs personal data to Firm P. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, Im unable to 
agree. The evidence Ive seen doesnt reflect that. But even if information was disclosed 
when it shouldnt have been  to be clear, I dont think it was  Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that Scottish Widows actions caused Mrs C any financial detriment.
Turning now to M Solicitors. My position on Scottish Widows dealings with M Solicitors after 
it was appointed to handle Mrs Cs claim is broadly the same as what Ive set out above in 
relation to Firm P. 
M Solicitors, like Firm P, provided Scottish Widows with enough information for it to satisfy 
itself that Firm P was acting on behalf of Mr Cs estate. And thats why Scottish Widows 
provided M Solicitors with its Beneficiaries Form when it was requested. Ive seen nothing 
which persuades me that Scottish Widows acted inappropriately when it did so or that its 
actions amounted to a data breach. 
Mrs C has confirmed in her submissions that M Solicitors was acting on her behalf and the 
fact that it ultimately provided Scottish Widows with certified copies of her birth certificate 
and Mr and Mrs Cs marriage certificate supports this. 
Time taken to settle Mrs Cs death benefit claimAlthough several different parties were involved in the death benefit claim process, my 
findings are limited to Scottish Widows acts or omissions as its the party Mrs C has 
complained about. However, its worth noting that Mrs C has said Firm P failed to deal with 
her claim as efficiently as shed expected when it was acting for her. This suggests Mrs C 
accepts that others may have played a part in how long it took for her claim to be settled.
Mrs C and her representative feel strongly that Scottish Widows poor handling of Mrs Cs 
claim caused the settlement to take far longer than it shouldve. Bearing this in mind, Ive 
looked carefully at the claim process as it occurred to identify any delays Scottish Widows 
was responsible for and assess their impact. 
Scottish Widows wasnt notified of Mr Cs death by Firm P until just over a month after hed 
passed away. It acknowledged this within 6 working days, providing the Beneficiaries Form 
Mrs C needed to complete to begin the claim process, along with requests for certified 
copies of birth and marriage certificates. Scottish Widows never heard back from Firm P. 
And it wasnt until M Solicitors contacted it on Mrs Cs behalf almost two months later that 
the claim began to move forward again.
By this point it had been almost four months since Mr C had passed away. But based on 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Scottish Widows took appropriate action and did so in a 
timely manner. I dont find that what Mrs C may feel was an excessive amount of time to 
have passed was down to any omission by Scottish Widows.
The next notable period of time that passed relates to how long it took M Solicitors to 
respond to Scottish Widows request for the completed Beneficiaries Form and certified 
documents. In total, this took 32 working days. 
Although Firm Ps response and enclosures to Scottish Widows were dated 16 December 
2020, they werent recorded as received until 8 February 2021. Its not entirely clear what 
caused the intervening delay, for example whether there were issues with the post or Firm 
Ps response had been incorrectly dated, nevertheless, Ive seen no evidence which shows 
Scottish Widows was at fault for this.
Between December 2020 and January 2021 Scottish Widows did attempt to move things 
along by chasing M Solicitors for a response. And it wasnt until this happened that further 
progress was made. Again, I dont find anything remiss about Scottish Widows actions here 
which can be said to have unreasonably delayed the settlement of Mrs Cs claim. 
Having received everything it needed to assess Mrs Cs claim, Scottish Widows confirmed 3 
working day later that it had decided the death benefit should be paid to Mrs C. To make the 
payment it asked for Mrs C to complete and return its Options Form.
Almost 100 working days passed between Scottish Widows requesting a completed Options 
Form and it being returned by Mrs Cs representative. Its not clear why M Solicitors stopped 
acting on Mrs Cs behalf and a new representative was appointed during this time. However, 
Scottish Widows did chase M Solicitors for a response and reminded it that the death benefit 
couldnt be paid until a completed Options Form was received. 
Mrs Cs representative feels strongly that Scottish Widows shouldve chased for Mrs Cs 
Options Form more than it did. However, this isnt something I wouldve expected it to do as 
standard in the circumstances, especially as there was a representative involved. Scottish 
Widows was clear about what the position was unless the relevant paperwork was 
completed and returned, so from this point I consider that the onus was on Mrs C and her 
representatives to do what was required to move things forward. Having received Mrs Cs completed Options Form, Scottish Widows settled her claim and 
transferred the proceeds of the death benefit to Mrs C 8 working days later. The funds were 
backdated to 18 June 2021, when it had received all necessary documentation. 
Although, I accept that the claims process appears to have taken longer than it perhaps 
shouldve, I havent seen anything to suggest that Scottish Widows caused or contributed to 
this. Or that it didnt make reasonable efforts to move things forward. Because of this Im 
unable to agree that Scottish Widows delayed the settlement of the death benefit under Mr 
Cs PPP and in doing so, caused Mrs C to suffer a financial loss in the way she claims.
The quality of Scottish Widows communication
Mrs Cs representative has said that Scottish Widows communication with her 
representatives was slow and poor, with its paperwork unclear. 
Having carefully considered the exchanges between Scottish Widows and Mrs Cs 
representatives, Im afraid I dont agree. As I said above, the evidence in this case doesnt 
show that Scottish Widows caused avoidable delays. And Ive seen nothing in its 
correspondence during the claim process which I consider lacked clarity and was of a 
particularly low standard. As Scottish Widows has acknowledged, the completed Options 
form that was returned to it for processing wasnt in the format it shouldve been. Its not 
clear how this happened, but I note that Scottish Widows was still able to process Mrs Cs 
claim without delay.
Overall, I havent seen anything which leads me to conclude that Scottish Widows did 
anything during the death benefit claim process which would lead me to conclude that it 
should compensate Mrs C in the way shes seeking. 
While I havent found in Mrs Cs favour, I should say that I do sympathise with her. Its clear 
to me that Mrs C was going through a lot during the claim process and with other competing 
priorities to manage at the time, Im sure it was a very trying period. As Ive said, Im sorry to 
hear of the impact this has had on her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman