DRN-2928614
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly allowed 
him to open a credit card account that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr B says he opened the Barclaycard account in October 2014 and says it didnt carry out 
sufficient affordability checks on the application. He says he was in financial difficulties at the 
time with other credit card debts and Barclaycard didnt consider how he could afford the 
repayments. Mr B would like all interest and charges refunded and interest paid on that 
refund and says he wasnt required to provide details of his income or expenditure.
Barclaycard says it approved Mr Bs application with a credit limit of £5,000. It says Mr B 
declared an income of £85,000 a year and it calculated his monthly expenditure at about 
£2,000 with an available amount of about £2,700. Barclaycard says it did carry out 
appropriate checks on the application and that Mr B had other debts totalling about £13,000. 
It says Mr B managed his account appropriately for some time after it was opened.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard had carried out appropriate checks on the application and that on the 
face of it the lending was affordable. The investigator didnt think Mr B was disputing the 
income and expenditure figures Barclaycard used and that he managed the account 
appropriately by making required payments for some time.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says he was in financial difficulties at the time with a 
number of other debts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision. I make clear that I accept that Mr B is 
in financial difficulties and have seen the list of his debts. But I have to look at the position in 
2014 and consider if Barclaycard carried out appropriate checks on Mr Bs application at that 
time.
Lenders and credit providers must carry reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
borrowing application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and amount 
of the lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for example a loan or 
mortgage, and so I wouldnt have expected Barclaycard to have carried out the same level of 
checks here compared to that type of lending.
I have looked carefully at Barclaycards records and can see that Mr B applied for the credit 
card account in October 2014 declaring an income of £85,000. Im satisfied that Barclaycard 
did verify that income amount, but I accept it cant provide the record of that verification from 
2014 due to the passage of time. I can see that it has provided evidence of a later check. In 
any event I dont think Mr B has disputed that income amount. Im also satisfied that 
Barclaycard did check Mr Bs credit file and has provided evidence of his other debts which 
amounted to about £13,000.
So, Im satisfied Barclaycard did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Bs 
application and that on the face of it, the lending was affordable as Mr B had a disposable 
income of well over £2,000 a month after his existing debts were taken into account. It 
follows that I think Barclaycards lending decision was not irresponsible and that the lending 
was affordable.
I have looked at Mr Bs account statements and can see that he managed his account 
appropriately for some significant time after the account was opened and that it wasnt until 
2018 that he told Barclaycard of his financial problems. I think that provides additional 
evidence that at the time the account was opened that the lending was affordable.
I appreciate Mr B says he had other debts at the time of the lending. Im satisfied that 
Barclaycard took those other debts into account and that they would not have prevented the 
additional lending. Mr B hasnt provided a copy of his credit file and I have not seen evidence 
of any other debts from the end of 2014 that were not considered by Barclaycard.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on 
the application in 2014. Im satisfied the lending was affordable and it likely that Mr Bs 
financial position deteriorated some significant time after this lending in 2014. I cant fairly 
hold Barclaycard responsible for any change in Mr Bs circumstances
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman