DRN-2753755
The complaint
Ms B complains about the settlement paid by Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. under her travel insurance claim.
What happened
Whilst abroad, Ms B had an accident. She was admitted to hospital as an emergency patient 
for treatment. Ms B then needed to have surgery on her wrist a few days later. 
Ms B submitted a claim to Mapfre for the medical costs. Mapfre accepted the claim for the 
costs incurred whilst Ms B was in the emergency department, but refused to pay for the cost 
of her later wrist surgery. Mapfre thought the surgery wasnt an emergency, and that she 
could have returned to the UK to have the treatment for free under the NHS. Though Mapfre 
said it would contribute towards Ms Bs costs by paying her the amount it would have paid, 
had it arranged for her early return to the UK. Unhappy with this, Ms B brought a complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She accepted that the surgery 
hadnt been needed as an emergency, and so she thought Mapfre had declined the claim in 
line with their policy terms. However, she considered the claim still ought to be paid on a fair 
and reasonable basis. That was because Mapfre hadnt given Ms B the option to be 
repatriated back to the UK. Our investigator therefore recommended that Mapfre pay the 
remainder of the claim, plus £100 for poor service.
Mapfre didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says it will cover the cost of emergency medical, surgery and hospital treatment 
and ambulance costs. It excludes any treatment or surgery which Mapfre thinks is not 
needed immediately and can wait until the insured returns home.
Ms B was admitted to the hospitals emergency department on 2 September. The assistance 
company (that Ill call Company A) told Ms B on 4 September that it couldnt confirm cover 
for the surgery until it had received her medical records, and that she should delay her 
surgery until she returned to the UK. Ms B chose to go ahead with the surgery on 5 
September.
Company A says the fact that Ms B wasnt taken for wrist surgery the day she was admitted 
to the emergency department, shows that the surgery wasnt an emergency. Ms B says that 
the hospital didnt have a specialist there who could perform the surgery, and so they 
referred her to a different hospital which she attended the following day (3 September). 
When she was assessed by the specialist there, he arranged for the surgery to take place on 
5 September as that was his earliest availability. She also says she was told it was 
necessary for her to have the surgery at that time and not delay it any further, because 
otherwise her bones wouldnt heal properly.
I appreciate that Ms B needed to be referred to another hospital for her wrist to be assessed. 
However, given that the specialist arranged for surgery to take place two days after he 
assessed Ms B, does indicate that the surgery was urgent rather than an emergency. 
Therefore, I think Mapfre was correct to say that the surgery wasnt covered under the policy 
terms because it wasnt an emergency. Ms B was aware of the risk of her claim not being 
covered before having the surgery, but I can understand why she decided to go ahead with 
it. Ill explain why.
Ms B has explained how much pain she was in at the time. Shed broken her ankle and 
wrist, and had also dislocated her elbow. Her arm was in a sling with a brace on her wrist, 
her foot was in a brace and she was on crutches (though she couldnt use the crutches 
because of her wrist injury). She was also on strong painkillers that made her nauseous. Ms 
B explains that, because of all these factors, she couldnt mobilise without assistance (she 
was travelling alone) and so she didnt think she could physically return to the UK before the 
surgery took place in any case. She was also concerned that shed been told any delay may 
impact the way her wrist healed.
Ms B has provided a letter from an orthopaedic hand surgeon who reviewed her in the UK 
on 23 September. Hes explained that, due to the significant injuries she sustained, delaying 
her operation until she was safe to return to the UK would have likely resulted in worse 
result. This supports Ms Bs recollections of what she was told by her treating doctor at the 
time. 
Given Ms Bs injuries and limited mobility, Id have expected Mapfre to have offered Ms B 
immediate repatriation back to the UK as soon as it learnt that she needed the surgery, so 
that she could have this on the NHS. 
Although Ms B (and her friend who was with her) says she was told by her doctor that she 
wasnt fit to fly, I havent seen any written confirmation of that from her treating doctor. 
Though of course, given her mobility issues, Id have expected Mapfre to have arranged for 
Ms B to have suitable support on her return to the UK, perhaps a medical escort for 
example.
Mapfre says it was willing to arrange Ms Bs transport to the airport, fly her home with 
additional seating, and arrange her transport to a hospital in the UK. However, Company As 
notes dont support that this was offered. Ms B says that on the day of the surgery (whilst 
she was under sedation) her friend spoke with Mapfre on her behalf, and it was only at this 
time that Mapfre said they would pay for Ms B to be returned to the UK. 
Our investigator asked Mapfre for the relevant call recordings so we could establish what 
was discussed in terms of repatriation. Unfortunately, Mapfre didnt provide us with these. 
Consequently, I think its reasonable to rely on Ms Bs recollections and Company As notes, 
and conclude that Ms B wasnt offered repatriation back to the UK until she was being 
prepped for surgery. 
That being the case, I agree with our investigator that Mapfre ought to cover the remaining 
medical costs on a fair and reasonable basis, as it failed to offer to repatriate Ms B back to 
the UK so she could have her surgery as it ought to have done. I see from Mapfres file papers that it didnt think the claim had been handled well by 
Company A, and that there was a lack of proactiveness of Company As part. It also thought 
Company A had failed to manage Ms Bs expectations. I would agree with that, and so 
Mapfre should pay Ms B £100 compensation to recognise this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to cover Ms Bs remaining medical costs in 
line with the policy terms. If Ms B has paid for any of those costs herself, Mapfre should 
reimburse her directly. It should also add interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the date she paid the invoice/s to the date of settlement*.
* If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give Ms B a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
I further require Mapfre to pay Ms B an additional £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman