DRN-4105406
The complaint
Mr H complains about Helvetia Global Solutions Ltds handling of a claim he made under his 
motor breakdown insurance policy.
 
Helvetia is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Helvetia has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, 
in my decision, any reference to Helvetia includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In mid-2022 Mr H made a claim under his breakdown policy when his vehicle suffered a 
puncture on the motorway. 
Helvetia declined assistance under the policy because Mr Hs vehicle didnt have a foam 
repair kit or serviceable spare wheel. Helvetia offered Mr H pay as you go assistance. Mr H 
decided not to go ahead with this because he didnt think he should have to pay the 
additional cost.
Mr H says he, his wife and two small children were stuck on the hard shoulder of the 
motorway for 1.5 hours, until they were helped by some other motorists.
Mr H complained to Helvetia who upheld his complaint and offered him £50 compensation. It 
said it should have offered him recovery to a local tyre garage. 
Mr H remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
thought Mr Hs complaint should be upheld and recommended Helvetia increase its offer of 
compensation to £100. 
Helvetia disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said when it phoned Mr H around half 
an hour after his initial call, there was the sound of what it believed to be a tyre pump for a 
tyre foam kit in the background. Based on this, it believed someone helped get Mr H back on 
the road fairly quickly. It said that if assistance had gone ahead the standard time would be 
60  90 minutes. Helvetia felt its offer of £50 for inconvenience and distress was more than 
appropriate. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Helvetia has acknowledged that it was wrong to decline Mr Hs claim. It should have offered 
to recover his vehicle to a local tyre garage. So, all Ive needed to consider is whether 
Helvetias offer of £50 is sufficient compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. 
Helvetia has told us it believes Mr H was back on the road fairly quickly based on 
background noise in a telephone call. However, it hasnt provided us with a recording of this 
call. 
Mr H says he had a pump he was trying to use to inflate the tyre to a point so he could move 
his vehicle somewhere else, but unfortunately it was not possible. So, this might explain 
what Helvetia heard in the background of the call. 
Im persuaded by Mr Hs testimony that he and his family were left on the hard shoulder of 
the motorway for around 1.5 hours. I think this would have been particularly distressing for 
him, given that both of his children were under the age of five. Whilst they eventually 
received help from some passing motorists, this wasnt something Mr H could rely on 
happening. 
It was no doubt frustrating for Mr H that he didnt receive the service he was expecting under 
the policy. Mr H says it was a very unpleasant experience and not the way he wished to start 
his holiday.
Given the above, I think a total of £100 would more fairly recognise the distress and 
inconvenience Mr H experienced as a result of Helvetias failings.
Putting things right
Pay Mr H a total of £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Helvetia Global 
Solutions Ltd to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman