DRN-4416231
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance (CB) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2022 Miss S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with CB. At the point of supply the car was around 10 years old and had covered around 
120,900 miles.
Miss S experienced issues with the car stopping without warning. A mechanic told Miss S 
that she had the wrong battery installed so she changed it. However, the car continued to 
stop without warning.
Miss S complained to CB. CB arranged for an inspection of the car in June 2023. The 
engineer was unable to start the car. He found fault codes showing that the DSC was under 
voltage. The inspection report concluded that the fault would not have been present or 
developing at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the report, CB didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the age and mileage of the car 
meant that parts of the car might be close to the end of their natural life and might need 
replacing. The investigator said that although the car had an outstanding recall, there wasnt 
any evidence which conclusively linked the fault to the recall.
Miss S didnt agree. She said she wouldnt have purchased the car if shed known it was 
subject to an outstanding recall. Miss S said she believed that the car had a manufacturing 
fault which caused corrosion to the battery lead. She said she didnt think it was reasonable 
that a car should require extensive repairs only 9 months after the point of supply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Miss S was around 10 years old and had covered around 120,900 miles. 
So its reasonable to expect that the car would already have a degree of wear and tear and 
that it was likely to require repairs sooner than, say, a newer car.
Ive reviewed the available information about the issues Miss S experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there is a fault with the car. I say this because the 
independent inspection report states that the car doesnt start and that there is a fault code 
showing that the DSC is under voltage.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
I appreciate that Miss S has experienced some problems with the car and that this has left 
her feeling frustrated. However, just because theres a fault with the car doesnt mean that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
An independent inspection report can help to determine whether a car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. Ive reviewed the inspection report dated June 2023. The report 
states that the under-voltage fault was likely to be due to wear and tear, and not unexpected 
in a car of this age and mileage. The engineer noted that Miss S had covered around 7,976 
miles in the car since the point of supply and concluded that the fault would not have been 
present or developing at the point of supply.
I understand that the car has an outstanding recall. However, a recall of itself isnt evidence 
that the car has a fault, or that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I havent 
seen any evidence which conclusively links the recall to the fault which has been identified 
with Miss Ss car.
I understand that Miss S feels very strongly about this. Shes said that the recall relates to 
corrosion in the engine which over time will damage the power lead to the battery. She says 
it must be this which is causing the battery fault in the car. I understand the point Miss S 
makes but as Ive said above, there isnt any engineering evidence to link the fault to the 
recall.
I understand that the manufacturer is willing to look at the car due to the recall. I would 
recommend that Miss S takes up this offer. Miss S has said that shes worried that shell be 
charged for this. I cant say whether or not this is the case. But in any event, if there is a 
charge, this isnt something I can ask CB to pay, because I havent found that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman