DRN-3646600
The complaint
Mr S complains about ReAssure Limited. He says that it caused delays in transferring three 
of his pensions to another pension provider, F.
What happened
On 17 December 2020, F sent an Origo request to ReAssure to transfer three of Mr Ss 
pensions.
One request was transferred within 10 working days and arrived with F on 
22 December 2020  but the other two transfers were delayed and arrived on 
30 December 2020, and 1 January 2021.
Mr S raised a complaint about the delays. ReAssure sent a final response in which it said 
that while one of Mr Ss transfers was made without delay, it acknowledged that the other 
two transfers were delayed. It said that this was due to Mr Ss name not matching the one it 
held on its records. However, it also acknowledged that it could have done more to avoid the 
delay. It said that because of this, it would make sure that Mr S didnt lose out financially 
because of the delay and offered £150 in compensation.
Mr S remained unhappy, he said that the requests were made earlier than 17 December 
2020, and so all three transfers were delayed, and he brought the complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. In summary, they said that while there were 
requests made on 30 November 2020 and 16 December 2020, these were made to the 
wrong business  albeit one with a similar name to ReAssure  and that this meant that Mr S 
could not be located on its systems, and the requests had rejected because of this. It wasnt 
until the 17 December 2020 that the transfer request was made to the right entity, and that 
the first transfer was actioned within a reasonable timescale after this point. They also said 
that ReAssure had already offered to put things right for the other two transfers, and offered 
compensation, and that this was a fair outcome.
Mr S accepted the reasons for the rejection of the original transfer requests, although he did 
still feel unhappy about this, but didnt think that the compensation went far enough in 
recognising what had happened, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our Investigator that the original transfer requests were delayed 
due to the request being sent to the wrong entity. It seems that once F was made aware of 
the correct entity to direct the requests to, it did so, and the first transfer request was made 
and completed without further delay.
This leaves the delay to the other two transfer requests. ReAssure has already said that it 
couldve done more to avoid the delay, and that it would take steps to ensure that Mr S 
hadnt lost out financially. It also offered compensation of £150.
Usually, this Service would ask a business to put a consumer back in the position they would 
have been had a mistake not been made, and in some instances pay compensation on top 
of this  which is what ReAssure has offered to do here. However, to the date of this 
decision, ReAssure still has not taken the steps that it said it would, to ensure Mr S hasnt 
been financially disadvantaged by the delay to the two transfers. And although it has already 
paid Mr S the £150 in compensation, I dont think this is now sufficient given how long he 
has been wating - nearly 18 months - for ReAssure to calculate if hes suffered any loss. 
Therefore, I think that ReAssure should pay Mr S a further £150 on top of the compensation 
already paid to him in recognition of this further delay. 
This service has already informed Mr S and ReAssure of my intention to increase the 
compensation  and I understand that Mr S feels that a figure of £500 would be appropriate. 
Ive taken Mr Ss comments on board, but I do feel that at this time a total of £300 is 
reasonable. While there was a delay in making the two transfers, these were completed by 1 
January 2021, so Mr S hasnt been deprived of access to his funds  and ReAssure has 
already committed to making sure that he isnt financially disadvantaged.
That said, ReAssure should take steps now to make sure that Mr S suffers no further delays, 
so it should complete the loss assessment as soon as possible. I think it is important to point 
out here that should resolution of the matter continue to be delayed, Mr S would be able to 
make a further complaint about the ongoing delays, should he wish to do so.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited should pay Mr S compensation of £150 on top of the £150 he has already 
been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman