DRN-1556120
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) unfairly declined a claim 
under her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2017, Mrs B noticed a lump on her dog, so she took him to the vet. She was told 
that it didnt need to be removed but should be monitored in case it became worse or bigger. 
There was further veterinary observations about lumps in February and August 2018.
In November 2018, Mrs B received her pet insurance policy renewal from her insurer. But 
due to the cost, she decided to shop around for a cheaper price. She took out a policy with 
L&G which commenced immediately after her previous policy ended, with no break in cover. 
In March 2019, Mrs B noticed that the lump had increased in size, so she took her dog back 
to the vet. The vet said the lump had developed a stalk which was attached to a further 
lump. Because of this, they recommended that the lumps were removed. So Mrs B made a 
claim on her insurance with L&G for the cost of the treatment. 
L&G declined the claim. It said the lump first appeared prior to the start of the policy, so 
considered it a pre-existing condition and for which the policy didn't provide cover. Mrs B 
doesnt think this is fair saying it was the stalk and second lump that caused this claim to 
arise. 
In addition, Mrs B says her previous insurer wont cover the claim as the need to remove the 
lump didnt arise within its period of insurance. So despite having continuous insurance, 
shes been left without cover for her claim. She brought a complaint to our service.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the policy terms were clear that there is 
no cover for any condition that first showed clinical signs before the start date of the policy. 
And as the lump was clearly present before Mrs B insured her dog with L&G in November 
2018, the claim has been fairly declined. 
Mrs B didnt agree and the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G has an obligation not to unreasonably decline a claim. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy, like all pet insurance policies Ive seen, has a 
general exclusion for all pre-existing conditions. It defines pre-existing as: Any condition 
diagnosed or undiagnosed showing signs, symptoms, manifesting or existing in any form 
prior to the commencement date.Under the section for veterinary fees, Mrs Bs policy says L&G wont cover: Costs resulting 
from an accident, injury or illness that first showed clinical signs before the commencement 
date.
Looking at the policy document and the key facts document, I find that both these terms are 
clear. But I need to be satisfied L&G has applied them fairly to Mrs Bs claim. 
Ive looked carefully at the policy and veterinary history of this matter. Mrs B took out the 
policy in November 2018 and claimed for the treatment of her dogs lumps in March 2019. 
In assessing the claim L&G looked at Mrs Bs dogs medical history. Its clear from the 
veterinary records that the lump was first discovered in August 2017. And theres further 
reference in the notes in February 2018 and August 2018. By March 2019 it had increased in 
size and developed a stalk and another lump. Based on this, Im satisfied that Mrs Bs claim 
relates to a pre-existing condition as defined in the policy. 
I appreciate that when Mrs B first took her dog to the vet about lumps no treatment was 
needed at that point. But the policy is clear in defining clinical signs as changes in your 
pet's normal healthy state, its bodily functions or behaviour. So, Im satisfied L&G acted 
fairly when saying the medical history indicates the condition was pre-existing, as the 
discovery of a lump that wasnt previously there meets the policys definition of a clinical 
sign.
Ive thought about Mrs Bs comments that the second lump wasnt present prior to the policy. 
And its the stalk and second lump that has caused the vet to want to remove them. But Im 
satisfied the first lump was the first clinical sign, and that the stalk and second lump is a 
development of the same condition. 
I understand my decision will be disappointing to Mrs B. And I sympathise with the situation 
this leaves her in. But while she has had continuous pet insurance, this doesnt mean that 
L&G will be liable for claims that its policy doesnt provide cover for. I wont be asking L&G to 
do anything more. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman