DRN-2560933
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc gave him misleading 
information on the maturity process of his monthly saver account. 
What happened
In February 2020, M&S wrote to Mrs W letting him know his monthly saver account was due 
to mature on 13 March 2020. Mr W says this letter was misleading as it gave him the 
impression that his balance and any interest would be available on the day his account 
matured. But when he checked his balance in the early hours of 14 March 2020, he still 
couldnt access the funds.
Mr W queried this with M&S. They explained the maturity process (transferring the funds to 
the current account) could take up to five working days. Mr W was unhappy with this as he 
felt the letter didnt specify the timeframes, and other financial providers completed this 
process the same day.
M&S said Mr W had raised the same complaint when his previous monthly saver account 
matured in 2019. They explained they passed on Mr Ws feedback and gave him £20 for the 
concerns raised. They also confirmed their maturity process and timescales involved. 
When Mr W complained in March 2020, M&S accepted the maturity letter may cause 
confusion and concern to some customers. But they felt Mr W was already aware of the 
process from his previous complaint. They reiterated their processes were still the same and 
that they werent looking to make changes to them. They said theyd fed back on Mr Ws 
comments regarding the letter again.
Mr W says he took the most recent maturity letter at face value and believed M&S had 
changed their process. He was unhappy M&S hadnt taken any action following his feedback 
in 2019. He believes its an easy task for M&S to change the wording on their letter. He also 
feels the funds shouldve been made available to him on the date of maturity. To resolve the 
complaint, Mr W has asked M&S to change their procedures and pay him compensation for 
the inconvenience he was caused. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said the timescales couldve been 
communicated more directly but didnt agree the letter was misleading. She said the 
information contained overleaf explained that it could take up to five working days. She didnt 
agree Mr W had lost out financially and felt it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask M&S to 
compensate him. Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr W says the following sentence in the maturity letter misled him:
Once your Monthly Saver matures, your balance plus interest will be transferred into 
one of your other M&S accounts
Mr W has explained the word once led him to believe that the transfer of his balance and 
interest would take place on the day of maturity. I appreciate why it may be confusing if the 
sentence is read in isolation to the rest of the letter. I agree the sentence could be clearer 
and itd be helpful for the timescales to be mentioned in the first page, but it doesnt mean 
M&S has misled Mr W. I say this because when the letter is read in its entirety, it clarifies the 
maturity process isnt immediate.
The letter explained there was further information overleaf which confirmed the maturity 
process could take five working days and if Mr W needed access to the funds sooner, all he 
had to do was call. So, overall, I think M&S did enough to make Mr W reasonably aware of 
the timescales involved. 
In any event, Mr W was able to access his savings the day after maturity on 14 March 2020. 
I dont underestimate Mr Ws frustration and the time and effort it took to make a complaint, 
but I dont think the impact on him is significant enough to ask M&S to compensate him.
Mr W has explained he was incurring interest on an outstanding overdraft balance with 
another provider. He intended to use the funds from his matured savings to clear that 
balance. He says although it was only for a day, he has had to pay additional interest. 
I appreciate the point Mr W is making here, but I can see from the query he raised with M&S 
that he didnt attempt to check his balance until the date after maturity on 14 March 2020. 
And he did receive the funds on this date, so I cant reasonably agree hes suffered a 
financial loss.
I know Mr W was expecting M&S to act on his feedback and either change their process or 
amend the maturity letter. I can understand his disappointment, particularly about M&S not 
making the letter clearer, given that they accept it may be confusing to some customers. 
While M&S arent looking to make any changes currently, they have treated Mr W fairly by 
addressing his concerns and passing his feedback to the relevant department. 
I also dont doubt Mr W when he says some other banks complete their maturity process the 
same day. But M&S are entitled to make commercial decisions on how they carry out their 
day-to-day business, including the wording of their letters and how quickly they process 
transactions.
Its not for us to interfere with how M&S choose to operate more broadly, but we can look at 
how their actions impacted Mr W. I do accept the maturity letter could be clearer. But I think 
M&S made Mr W reasonably aware that it could take up to five working days for his savings 
to be available. And in any case, the delay had no material impact on Mr Ws finances.
All things considered, Im satisfied M&S dont need to do anything else to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman