DRN-1588558
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr G says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
Mr G took out a credit card in June 2005. A month later, in July 2005 Mr G called Capital 
One to activate his card and during this call was sold a PPI policy.
Mr G says he cannot remember being told about PPI and thinks it was mis-sold to him.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G disagreed with this view. So as both 
parties do not agree, his complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr G says he cannot remember being told about PPI. Mr G bought the policy in a 
phone call shortly after starting the card. Capital One hasnt been able to provide a 
copy of the phone call made. But it has provided a copy of the sales script it says its 
representative wouldve used. I think, on balance, that its likely the representative 
wouldve followed this script. This script does say that Capital One wouldve asked 
Mr G if she wanted to buy the PPI. So I think Capital One made it clear that Mr G 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant remember this.
 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have to make sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if 
it was right for him. 
 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and I 
think even though he had up to 3 months sick pay I think he wouldve had a need for the cover provided - so it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
In conclusion, I know it will be a disappointment for Mr G, but I havent found a reason to 
uphold his complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint for the reasons given above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman