DRN-1862306
The complaint
Mr L has complained about RAC Insurance Limiteds handling of his European breakdown 
cover. He is unhappy RAC Insurance Limited told him the repair costs exceeded the value of 
his van so it wouldnt be able to fix and repatriate the van. He is also unhappy with the 
service that was provided and that he wasnt able to continue with his holiday. 
Reference to RAC includes their agents.
What happened
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She felt RAC had acted within the 
policy terms and conditions when it decided it couldnt meet the costs of repatriating Mr Ls 
van and when it didnt help him continue with his holiday. She added that RAC had paid for 
accommodation, taxis and a hire car. So she felt RAC hadnt treated Mr L unreasonably. 
Mr L disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He believes RAC 
should pay for the cost of repairing his vehicle and the loss of his holiday. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. In bringing this complaint Mr Ls made a number 
of points. I've considered very carefully everything he said. But in this decision, I will focus 
on what I see as being the key outstanding issues following our investigators assessment of 
his complaint. And to decide if RAC have dealt with Mr L in a fair and reasonable way.
The breakdown policy Mr L had itemised what benefits were available to him and in what 
circumstances. Like all insurance policies, Mr Ls policy also had some limitations. The policy 
did provide cover in some circumstances for RAC to assist Mr L in the event of a breakdown 
abroad.
But the policy made it clear that RAC wouldnt pay for any costs if the vehicle is beyond 
economical repair. The policy defined beyond economical repair as being where the total 
cost required to repair the vehicle, including any taxes, is greater than the market value of 
the vehicle. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for RAC to wait for the European garage to 
tell it how much it would cost to fix the van. The European garage then said the repairs 
would cost between €8,000 and €10,000. An independent engineer then said the cost of the 
repairs would be around £6,000 when the van was inspected later in the UK. 
Ive seen a number of industry accepted car valuation guides, which the policy says RAC 
should use. And Im satisfied that the repair costs quoted by the garage and engineer 
exceed the market value of the van. So, RAC didnt do anything wrong when it decided it 
wouldnt be prepared to meet the cost of Mr L continuing his holiday and then repatriating his 
van. I do understand that Mr L found the whole situation troublesome. And I note that RAC has 
agreed it couldve handled this situation better while the European garage was inspecting 
the vehicle. As a result, it has offered £75 for the service and it has refunded the cost of the 
damage to the bonnet lock and key. I think these are reasonable in the circumstances 
especially when considering the hire car and taxi costs RAC has met when dealing with this 
claim. 
So while I can understand Mr L found the situation frustrating I don't think that's necessarily 
because RAC did anything outside of the terms and conditions of the policy. So, Im not 
going to ask it to do anything differently here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman