DRN-2266982
The complaint
Mrs B complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly handled her motor insurance 
claim.
 
What happened
Mrs B was involved in a car accident on 3 December 2019. Another car drove into the back 
of her car while it was stationary. 
Mrs B reported the accident to UKI. She initially couldnt see much visible damage to her car 
 just a scratch on her bumper  but she was concerned there may be internal damage. 
UKI arranged for the car to be inspected. The inspection noted the bumper damage. It also 
noted that the oil light on the dashboard showed there was a fault with the cars oil pressure.
UKIs garage told Mrs B that this fault needed to be fixed before they could carry out the 
accident repairs. They felt that the problem couldnt have been caused by the accident. 
So Mrs B had to arrange and pay for the issues UKIs garage said werent related to the 
accident to be fixed. But she didnt agree that theyd not been caused by the accident.
So she complained to UKI. They didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they 
confirmed they didnt think the issues Mrs B had had to fix were accident-related. But they 
said that if she provided a report that proved them wrong they would review the claim. 
Unhappy with their response, Mrs B brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint in his first view. Based on the information 
available to him he couldnt say UKI had acted unfairly. But he said that hed be happy to 
review her complaint if she provided further evidence. 
Mrs B got an independent engineer to look at her car. She shared their report with our 
investigator. Based on the information in that report, he amended his view. He felt that the 
report confirmed Mrs Bs view of the condition of the car before and after the accident. And 
he felt that UKI should repair Mrs Bs car in line with the recommendations given in the 
report. He also recommended that UKI pay Mrs B £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
theyd caused her. 
UKI didnt agree. After reviewing the new report they still felt the repairs theyd done were 
appropriate and that the rest of the required work wasnt related to the accident. So Mrs Bs 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Its for Mrs B to show that the issues with her car were caused by the accident. So she had 
an independent assessment carried out. The report of that assessment concludes that her 
car has suffered damage that hasnt been repaired by UKI. 
When looking into Mrs Bs complaint, UKI said theyd instruct an independent assessment. 
But they only got a second opinion which wasnt independent. Mrs Bs report, on the other 
hand, was produced by an impartial independent assessor whose expert opinion can be 
relied upon in a court of law. 
It should be noted that Mrs Bs independent report only covers the issues with the rear of her 
car. The assessor couldnt comment on whether the camshaft sensors were damaged in the 
accident as Mrs B had already paid to have them repaired. Mrs B had also already had the 
front alignment issues shed reported to UKI fixed.
But the independent report does conclude that: the alignment of the rear tailgate is not 
correct; The tailgate does not align to the roof. The tailgate does not align to the rear light 
clusters. The tailgate does align to the rear quarter panels. The tailgate is also stiff in 
operation when the user tries to elevate from the lock mechanism. It also states: the repairs 
have undoubtedly not been done to an acceptable standard.
 
UKI said the independent report noted the bumper had been fitted correctly and securely. So 
they felt the report confirmed the work theyd carried out was correct. But they disagreed 
with the reports comments about the tailgate. They felt there was no logical explanation as 
to how the quarter panels or tailgate wouldve been affected by the accident as reported.
UKI said that the accident was reported as being a low speed impact. They also pointed to 
photos which had been provided. They said that the photos showed that the impact would be 
limited to the area theyd repaired. 
Further, they said that for the quarter panels and all areas above the bumper to be 
impacted, you would expect a reasonable level of force to be applied in order for the bumper 
to be thrusted up to close the gaps between the panels and to force movement. They felt 
that If this had happened, there wouldve been more damage to these other areas.
UKI also pointed to the independent report, which said there was no visible structural 
damage. They said theyd expect to see such damage and its absence supports their view 
that the tailgate damage isnt accident-related.
And they noted that the picture of the third-party vehicle shows no significant damage. They 
say that if force was needed to cause damage to the above panels, you would expect to see 
more visible damage which there is not. And they pointed out that these areas werent 
included within the original claim call but were added the day after.
UKI also confirmed that after reading the independent report, their engineer still felt that the 
tailgate misalignment wasnt related to the accident.
Although I havent been able to confirm the speed of the impact, I note that Mrs B said her 
car was stationary when it was hit. And that the car lurched forward. This suggests there was 
a reasonable level of force from the impact.
Mrs B has also told us that before the accident the boot worked perfectly. The independent 
report confirms: The accident has clearly affected the tail gate position and the lower edge of the tail gate been mis-shaped leaving the rear facing camera showing the vehicles 
number plate (when in use) and the trim to the edge has a prominent gap to the NS.
Taking all the evidence into account, I think its more likely that the remaining issues with the 
rear of the car were caused at the time of the accident. And UKI should fix these.
Distress and inconvenience
When Mrs Bs car was first assessed, UKIs garage refused to look at the accident damage 
before shed fixed the issue with the oil warning light. Mrs B stated that the oil warning light 
hadnt been on before the accident. She also said that she had the car regularly serviced 
and it was clearly looked after.
The garage shouldve fully assessed the car after the accident. Mrs B had made it clear 
when she first reported the accident that her concern was that the car may have internal 
damage. It couldve been unsafe. 
Under the circumstances, I consider that UKI have caused Mrs B some distress and 
inconvenience. Not only was her car not fully assessed after the accident, but it also wasnt 
repaired to an acceptable standard. Since the accident, Mrs B has had to drive a car she 
couldnt be sure was safe because there were still issues with the alignment. So I require 
UKI to pay her £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused her.
  
Putting things right
UKI should repair Mrs Bs car in line with the recommendations made in the independent 
report: The rear tailgate will require the trim to be removed to confirm any damage present 
and rectified, as necessary. The rear tailgate will require repair and re-alignment. The rear 
facing camera requires adjustment. 
UKI should also arrange for an independent inspection of the car following the repairs, as 
recommended in the report.
In addition, UKI should pay Mrs B £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
I require UK Insurance Limited to:
1. repair Mrs Bs car in line with the recommendations made in the independent report; 
and
2. arrange for an independent inspection of the car following the repairs; and
3. Pay her £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman