DRN-3792380
The complaint
Mr W complains that Key Currency Limited has made false claims in its advertising which 
have caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr W asked Key Currency to carry out a foreign currency transaction for him, 
from Euros to Sterling. Mr W says he had chosen Key Currency because of claims made in 
its advertising that it offered great exchange rates and that it could save customers 
£000s, could reduce costs, and could offer significant savings, amongst other similar 
claims.
After agreeing to the transfer Mr W says he became aware that he could have received a 
better exchange rate elsewhere. He therefore believes that Key Currencys advertising is 
misleading as it makes claims which would lead customers to believe they are getting a 
better rate  in comparison to the wider market  than they would actually be receiving.
Mr W raised his concerns with Key Currency, but although it had already offered Mr W a 
payment of £2,802 as a gesture of goodwill, it did not agree it had done anything wrong. It 
said that the specific exchange rate had been made clear to Mr W before he agreed to the 
transaction and that its advertising did not make any claims about saving customers a 
specific amount.
Mr W was unhappy with Key Currencys response, so he referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened but did not think that Key Currency 
had done anything wrong. They considered that the specific exchange rate that would apply 
had been made clear to Mr W before he agreed to the transaction and that Mr W was not 
compelled to agree to the rate Key Currency was offering to him. The Investigator did not 
consider that anything in the advertisements Mr W had referred to was false. 
Mr W remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Its clear Mr W has very strong feelings about this complaint and I can confirm Ive read and 
considered everything he has submitted. However, I trust that Mr W will not take the fact that 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose 
of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out 
my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I should also be clear that that is not our role to determine whether banks meet the required 
advertising standard. These functions lie with other organisations, including the Financial 
Conduct Authority and the Advertising Standards Authority. 
Our role is to look at the way that businesses treat individual consumers and whether this 
has been fair and reasonable. Where a business has not treated a consumer fairly, we can 
direct the business to make amends. 
When looking at how a business acts, we look at the information provided to the consumer, 
the complexity of the situation, the wider context, including industry standards, and whether 
broadly the behaviour is reasonable. And having done so, in Mr Ws case, Im satisfied that 
Key Currency has treated him fairly.
Having looked at the advertising claims Mr W has referred to, I do not consider that those 
claims make any specific reference to Key Currency providing the best rates available on the 
market, or to being better value than any specific competitor or type of competitor. The 
claims that it provides great or excellent rates is generic, and in any case, what constitutes a 
great rate or an excellent rate is arguably subjective. Any claim about how much 
customers could save is also generic and unspecific, as any possible savings would of 
course depend on how much any particular transaction was for. Mr W has provided evidence 
that some of Key Currencys competitors were offering better rates at the time, but I dont 
think that is enough to say that Key Currencys advertising was misleading.
And Mr W was told the specific exchange rate that he was being offered before he agreed to 
the transaction I dont think there was any obligation on Key Currency to let Mr W know how 
its rate at that specific time might compare to other providers. And if Mr W was unhappy with 
the rate hed been offered then there was no obligation on him to accept it, he was free to 
search the market  as he appears to have done after agreeing to the transaction  to see if 
better rates were available elsewhere.
So given that Mr W was fully aware of the exchange rate he would be receiving before he 
agreed to enter into the contract with Key Currency, I cannot fairly consider that Key 
Currency has done anything wrong here or that it has treated Mr W unfairly. And even 
though no clear error was made here by Key Currency, it nonetheless offered to make a 
payment of £2,802 to Mr W which recognised that he had received a worse rate than he had 
been hoping for. 
It is for Mr W to let Key Currency know if he now wishes to accept that amount, but while I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr W, I will not be asking Key Currency to do anything 
more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman