DRN-3681339
The complaint
Mr C complains that Zopa Bank Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He says he couldnt afford 
the loan he was lent. To put things right, hed like Zopa to write off the debt and remove 
adverse information from his credit file.
What happened
Zopa lent Mr C a loan for £5,000 in December 2021. The loan was due to repaid in 60 
monthly instalments of £144. Mr C made some repayments towards the loan but fell into 
financial difficulties repaying the loan.
When he complained to Zopa, it didnt uphold his complaint, so he referred the complaint to 
this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator thought that 
Zopa should have been concerned about lending to Mr C as it should have seen that hed be 
repaying a significant portion of his monthly income toward unsecured debts.
Zopa disagreed, it said Mr C was borrowing the loan for debt consolidation purposes and 
this would have meant his monthly repayments would be less, leaving him with more 
disposable income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer could repay without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also take into account and 
react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending 
decision.
Zopa checked Mr Cs income and searched his credit file and while I cant see that it 
checked his living costs, theres a record on file that shows Mr C paid £130 towards his 
housing costs.
Zopa recorded Mr C having an income of £1,900 and even though it hasnt provided the 
details results of its credit search, the summary showed Mr C was repaying three credit card 
debts and had a total debt of around £10,814.
Zopa hasnt shown that it considered whether consolidating his debts with this loan would 
make Mr Cs finances better at the time but even if Mr C had repaid the balances on the two 
credit cards with the lower balances (which is what Zopa argues), the repayment on the 
other credit card and this loan would still have been a substantial part of his declared 
monthly income. I think there were enough signs for Zopa to be concerned and for it to take 
its checks further. So, I dont think its checks went far enough.
Had Zopa taken its checks further, it likely would have found that Mr C couldnt sustainably 
repay the loan. Mr C has provided evidence to show that hed taken out an unsecured loan 
in April 2021 for around £20,000 which he was due to repay around £342 monthly, this loan 
was active at the time Zopa granted Mr Cs loan. With this loan and Mr Cs other 
repayments, hed have been paying around half his monthly income towards unsecured 
debt.
In those circumstances, Zopa should have known Mr C was likely to struggle to repay the 
loan over the term and it shouldnt have lent. Zopa needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
Mr C hasnt fully repaid the loan and as hes had the benefit of the funds, its fair he repays 
that. So, to put things right, Zopa should;
Remove any interest and charges applied the loan.
Treat any payments that Mr C has made as a reduction of the principle amount.
It is likely Mr C will still have an outstanding balance Zopa needs to come to suitable 
repayment plan with Mr C to pay off the remaining capital amount. 
Remove any adverse information on Mr Cs credit file in relation to this loan once it 
has been fully repaid.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Zopa Bank Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman