DRN-3839723
The complaint
Mr A complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc declined his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a refund in relation to the repair of his mobile phone.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr A spent £129.50 on repairing his mobile phone. He paid for this with his 
Sainsburys Bank credit card. 
About a year later, Mr A asked Sainsburys Bank for a refund of that payment. He had had to 
take his phone back to the shop. He said the shop had failed to repair the phone. He also 
said he thought the repair came with a 12-month warranty, but the shop staff had told him 
that this was incorrect. By then it was too late for the bank to raise a chargeback, so it 
treated Mr As request as a claim under section 75. 
The bank did not uphold Mr As claim. It said there was not enough evidence to show that 
the shop had breached its terms and conditions, either in relation to the original repair being 
unsatisfactory or in relation to the alleged warranty. But it paid him a total of £205 as 
compensation for various customer service failings.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint, but she did not uphold it. She said there 
was no evidence that there had been a 12-month warranty, or that Mr A had been told that 
there was a 12-month warranty. She concluded that the bank had been entitled to decline 
Mr As claim. She agreed with the bank that the time limit for bringing a chargeback had 
expired by the time Mr A had approached the bank. She added that £205 was more than 
enough compensation for the customer service failings for which they had been paid.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen no evidence that the repair was not carried out with reasonable care and skill, or 
that there was a 12-month warranty, or that Mr A was told that there was such a warranty. 
I am therefore satisfied that the bank was entitled to decline his claim on the ground that 
there was not enough evidence to establish that a breach of contract or a misrepresentation 
had occurred.
(If that disappoints Mr A, then I would remind him that the compensation he has already 
received from the bank exceeds the sum he was asking it for in the first place.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman