DRN-3431383
The complaint
Mr E complains that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) avoided his home insurance policy and 
declined to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr E took out home insurance with QIC through an online cashback website. 
Following a leak at the property Mr E made a claim on his policy for damage to kitchen units. 
QIC said that when applying for the policy Mr E had answered the question about who lived 
at the property incorrectly. They said that Mr E had declared the property was occupied by 
him and his family, but Mr E also had a friend living at the property. QIC considered this to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation which entitled them to avoid the policy, decline the claim 
and refund the policy premiums.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think that QIC had shown there had been a 
qualifying misrepresentation. He said that QIC should deal with the claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy, remove any record of the policy being avoided, and pay 
Mr E £150 for distress and inconvenience.
QIC doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. They 
say that Mr Es friend was not a family member. They said that the online application offered 
more appropriate descriptions of the living arrangements, and had they known the true 
situation they would not have offered insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC thinks Mr E failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
completed the online application saying the property was occupied by You and your family. 
Ive looked at the question asked by QIC during the online application process. It asks, Who 
is the property occupied by?. The customer is asked to select an answer from a drop-down 
box. The options are You as sole occupier, You and your family, You and your family 
with paying guests/lodgers, You and others in a shared property, and Not by me, by 
tenants. QIC say that Mr E should have said that he was either living with a paying 
guest/lodger or that he was in a shared property. 
QIC refer to the policy booklet at page 7 which defines family - As long as they permanently 
live with you in your home during the period of insurance, and they are not paying for the 
accommodation: a. your husband, wife, partner or civil partner; b. your children; and c. other 
members of your family. I dont find this explanation particularly helpful as it doesnt actually 
define family but simply suggests who could be included as family. It also fails to say what 
other members of your family means. 
Mr E said he selected You and your family as none of the other options reflected his 
friends status as a non-paying guest. He said that she was a close friend who was staying 
temporarily whilst she purchased her own property. He said he treated her as one of his 
family and felt he had selected the most accurate option. He also referred to a help-text on 
QICs website which said that temporary dependants such as parents should be counted as 
family. 
Whilst I accept that the term family has many different meanings in society today, I dont 
think that Mr Es friend could fairly be described as family in any sort of official capacity. 
However, I dont think that either of the options suggested by QIC fits Mr Es situation any 
better than the option he selected himself. There is no further explanation of the options 
given at this point in the application process, or instructions if the customers circumstances 
dont fit any of the options. QIC say that the wording of the options would indicate to 
customers that they were interested in occupiers who were not family. I dont think this is 
obvious at all and if it was important, I think QIC should have specifically highlighted this. Ive 
seen nothing to indicate that Mr E would have been aware at the time that insurance would 
not have been offered if he were living with anyone other than family.
QIC say that when they queried with Mr E who his friend was, he replied that she was a 
temporary lodger. They believe that this shows that Mr E viewed her as a lodger and should 
therefore have said he was living with a paying lodger. However, Mr E has always been 
clear that his friend was not paying, and therefore I dont think it fair to say that he should 
have chosen this option. This clearly didnt fit his circumstances.
QIC also say that Mr E could have selected that he was living in a shared property. 
However, I dont think the property could properly be described as a shared property as Mr E 
was a homeowner who usually lived just with his partner. Under QICs definition, the partner 
would be family and so the house would be occupied by Mr E and his family. I dont think 
that the addition of a non-paying guest would make the property into a shared property. So, I 
dont think this option accurately reflected Mr Es situation either. 
QIC suggest that if Mr E had been unsure which answer to select, he should have contacted 
them. However, I think it would be reasonable to expect QIC to make sure that all necessary 
options were available, that explanations and definitions if required were provided at the 
point of sale, and that customers were asked to contact QIC if their circumstances didnt fit 
the available options. As they didnt do this, I dont think Mr E acted unreasonably in 
choosing the answer that best suited his situation.
QIC also say that the policy terms and conditions make it clear that Mr E should tell them 
about any changes in circumstances, including if the property is no longer to be occupied 
only by him or his family. However, Mr Es friend was staying at the property before the insurance policy began so there was no change in circumstance.
Im satisfied that although the question asked by QIC during the application process was 
clear, I think the options available in the answer were not. I think Mr E took reasonable care 
to answer the question as accurately as he could with the options provided. I therefore dont 
think that there has been a qualifying misrepresentation. Im satisfied that QIC acted unfairly 
and not in line with CIDRA, and I will be upholding Mr Es complaint. 
QIC should deal with Mr Es claim in line with the terms and conditions of his policy at the 
time. They should also remove any record of the avoidance from internal and external 
records.
I also have to consider compensation for distress and inconvenience. Our investigator 
awarded the sum of £150 and I think this is fair. Mr E had his policy avoided and his claim 
declined which caused him distress. He also had to find alternative insurance for his property 
which was made harder due to his policy with QIC having been avoided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Consider Mr Es claim under the terms and conditions of his policy;
Remove any reference of their avoidance of the policy from all internal and external 
records; and
Pay Mr E £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman