DRN-2875944
The complaint
Mr S complains that although he asked for payment holidays on both his loans with HSBC
UK Bank Plc, it only actioned a payment holiday on one loan. He says this has adversely
affected his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr S said hed applied for payment holidays for both his loans, but HSBC had only
processed the application for one. He hadnt realised this, and had stopped paying for both.
So one of the loans just showed as having missed several payments. Mr S wanted us to
help him to sort this out.
HSBC said that Mr S may have intended to apply for payment holidays for both loans, but
hed actually only applied for one. HSBC said it accepted that the payment holiday it had
implemented hadnt been properly recorded with credit reference agencies (CRAs) and it
had updated that information. HSBC said it had paid Mr S £75 to make up for that. But it
didnt think it had to do anything about the loan where the payment holiday wasnt set up.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said Mr Ss evidence was that
hed applied for payment holidays for both loans at the same time. That seemed likely. And
although HSBC said it didnt have any evidence that he applied for a payment holiday for the
second loan, she said HSBC had a call note from 14 May 2020 showing Mr S explained that
hed previously been assured that his payment holidays had been processed and his Direct
Debit had already been cancelled. That note also indicates that the advisor apologised to Mr
S and confirmed that HSBC would now process the payment holiday for both his loans and
his credit card.
So our investigator said it looked as if HSBC didnt initially process Mr Ss request for the
payment holiday. When he contacted HSBC, it told him not to worry. Then when he got in
touch again, HSBC only actioned the holiday for one of his loans, and not the other. Mr S
had been told to disregard arrears letters after this. And our investigator said that Mr S
wouldnt have realised the second loan payment holiday hadnt been processed at the time,
because he only got confirmation of the first one after the holiday ended.
Our investigator said Mr S started to make payments onto both his loans after the payment
holiday ended, but the loan account that did have the payment holiday wasnt updated, and
adverse information continued to be recorded until November 2020. She said she could see
that HSBC had noted a bank error on 19 January 2021, and said that it needed to update his
credit file to remove adverse information.
Our investigator said HSBC needed to put this right. She said it should pay Mr S £100 
compensation, in addition to the £75 it had already paid. It should refund all charges and 
fees on both loans in relation to the arrears from 31 March 2020 onwards. And it should 
amend Mr Ss credit file to remove any adverse information recorded about both loans from 
31 March 2020.
HSBC said it would accept the resolution that our investigator proposed, but Mr S didnt. He
wanted more compensation. Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to
me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I think that Mr S intended to apply for payment holidays for both of his loan accounts 
and for his credit card, for holidays to start in late March 2020.
Mr S then contacted HSBC in May 2020. It looks as if he did that because his credit 
card was blocked, as a result of the payment holiday hed applied for on the card not 
being processed. HSBC said then that it would process payment holidays for both his 
loan accounts for him, as well as for his credit card.
I know theres been some confusion about whether Mr S actually made these 
payment holiday applications. And having considered the evidence here carefully, I 
cant be entirely sure that Mr S actually applied for payment holidays for both of his 
loans. But I dont think that affects the outcome of this case. Thats because, if Mr S 
had really been unsuccessful in making one of his payment holiday applications, then 
HSBC ought to have made that clear to him on the call it had with him in May 2020. It 
didnt, and I think that Mr S was entitled to rely the assurance HSBC gave him then, 
that it would now process his payment holiday application for both loans. Particularly 
as Mr S has said, and HSBC has accepted, that the situation at the time, during the 
early stages of the first UK lockdown, was rather confused. And Mr S didnt receive 
documentation confirming the one payment holiday which had been processed until 
that payment holiday was actually over.
I can also see that Mr S started to make his payments again on both of his loans 
once hed understood that the payment holidays were over. I think its important that 
Mr S has paid HSBC what he understood he owed.
Given all of this, I think Mr S has done his best in a rather confused situation. 
Because HSBC has reassured him that it had put his payment holiday in place for 
both his loans, I dont think its fair for Mr Ss credit file to show missed payments or 
other adverse information, because of mistakes over those payment holidays, for 
either of Mr Ss loans.
So I agree with our investigator that HSBC needs to put this right now. I think she 
was right to suggest that HSBC should refund any and all charges or fees on both 
loans which have been incurred as a result of what Ive decided were mistakes over 
his payment holidays from 31 March 2020, and that it should also amend Mr Ss 
credit file to remove any adverse information recorded about both loans as a result of 
what Ive decided were mistakes over his payment holidays from 31 March 2020 
onwards.
I hope that this will resolve the issues with Mr Ss credit file. But if this issue 
continues to affect Mr S after the date of my decision, he can complain about that 
again to HSBC.
Mr S told HSBC how this had affected him. He said it had triggered a sharp drop in 
his credit score, which in turn had meant that other sources of credit were no longer 
available to him.Mr S has asked HSBC to write to him to explain why it had recorded adverse 
information on his credit file, so that he could show other banks that this was a 
mistake.
I havent seen Mr Ss credit file. But HSBC has accepted it made mistakes with how it
recorded a payment holiday on one of his loans. And I also think, as it failed to record 
any payment holiday for his other loan, that HSBC has made mistakes there too. I 
wont ask HSBC to write to Mr S about that, because Mr S can show this decision to 
his bank if he would like.
And like our investigator, I also think that HSBC should pay Mr S some compensation 
for whats gone wrong here. She noted that it had already paid £75 and said it should 
pay £100 more. But I dont think thats quite enough, in the light of the issues that Mr 
S has told us about.
Ive taken account of the effect Mr S said this has had on him, but also of the amount 
of time that Mr S has been trying to resolve this. This has affected his credit file for 
some time. And during all this time HSBC has had access to call notes which say it 
told Mr S it had processed payment holidays on both his loans. With that in mind, I 
think HSBC should pay Mr S £200 now, in addition to the payment of £75 it has 
already made.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC said it didnt agree with everything I had said, but it would accept my provisional 
decision. Mr S replied to reject my proposed award.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S responded, he told us that hed just been turned down for a loan to repay his 
credit card. He said this happened because HSBC had ruined his credit score. He said the 
interest rate on his existing card was much higher than that offered on the loan. And he told 
us that he had no option but to use the HSBC credit card during the recent pandemic, 
because the limits on his two other cards were reduced. Mr S said the changes to his other 
two cards happened immediately after his credit score reduced. And Mr S said he was now 
paying HSBC almost £200 per month in interest, so he didnt think my award was fair. 
I dont know if there were other factors which affected Mr Ss other credit cards, or indeed if 
there are other reasons why Mr S would be turned down for a loan with HSBC now. Mr S 
hasnt chosen to share his credit file with us. And even if he did, businesses make their own 
decisions on lending, so I couldnt be sure of the reasons for any changes they have made in 
their lending to him. 
I do know however that Mr S already had two loans with HSBC, and what hes said suggests 
that hes built up more borrowing recently, on his credit card. So I dont think Im able to 
increase the compensation payable in this case because Mr S has recently been turned 
down for further lending.
But it does seem likely that Mr Ss credit file has been affected by what HSBC did. The 
decision Ive proposed will require HSBC to amend Mr Ss credit file, and I hope these 
amendments will resolve the issues with lending for Mr S. If the issue is, as Mr S says, solely 
with the adverse information recorded for his loan with HSBC, then I expect they will do. And 
Id also expect that Mr S can then reapply for a loan if he wishes to do so.My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC must -
- refund any and all charges or fees on both loans which have been incurred as a 
result of what Ive decided were mistakes over his payment holidays from 31 March 
2020,
- amend Mr Ss credit file to remove any adverse information recorded about both 
loans as a result of what Ive decided were mistakes over his payment holidays from 
31 March 2020 onwards, and
- pay Mr S £200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman