DRN-1744570
 
Complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a monthly premium mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr M was sold a PPI policy in 2002 during a meeting. The PPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 24 months per claim if Mr M was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr M was eligible under the policy. Based on Mr Ms age, 
employment and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he would have been 
eligible.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr M that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before it 
could be applied to Mr Ms account. Mr M says that the policy was added without his 
knowledge. BoS disagree.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. And given the length of time since the 
sale, BoS no longer have all of the documents from the time of the sale. So Ive thought 
about what Mr M has told us and have considered sample documents (which Mr M would 
have seen and been asked to complete at the time of the sale) as well as screenshots 
(provided by BoS) to help me decide how if and how PPI was presented to him.
From my experience of how BoS sold these policies during face to face meetings, I think its 
more likely that there would have been a discussion around PPI. Ive also seen screenshots 
which reflect some of the questions asked by BoS and answered by Mr M concerning Mr Ms 
eligibility and suitability for the policy.
The sample documentation BoS has previously provided to this service in relation to such 
sales shows that PPI would have been presented as optional and that PPI would only have 
been applied to the account if Mr M had chosen to take it out. And I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to conclude that this didnt happen in this case.So all in all, while I appreciate what Mr M has told us, I think its more likely that BoS 
presented the PPI as optional and that it was only applied to Mr Ms account because he 
chose to take it out.
BoS say they advised Mr M to take PPI. This means they had to check it was suitable for Mr 
M. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the PPI was suitable for 
Mr M but I do think the policy was suitable for Mr M. I say this because:
 
Mr M has told us he was entitled to six months full pay from his employer if he was 
off work sick and so had no need for PPI. However, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to this and for a much longer period of time, up to 24 months. It would also 
have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr M may have been entitled to for 
up to 24 months. Mr M could have used his sick pay and redundancy pay for 
essential living expenses while the PPI took care of the mortgage repayments.
 
Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. 
 
Mr M has raised that he was in financial difficulties at the time of the sale and that in 
effect this PPI policy was an unnecessary extra financial burden. But I havent seen 
any evidence which would show that the PPI itself was unaffordable for Mr M at the 
time of the sale. The cost of the policy was relatively low in comparison to the 
valuable benefit it provided in Mr Ms circumstances. 
 
Mr M could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if he no 
longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr M, BoS also had to give him clear 
information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the 
policy  so that he could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr M wasnt as clear as it should have been but this in 
itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put him off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for him.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr M this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman