DRN-1956155
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (trading at the time as Legal & General 
Insurance Limited (L&G)) unfairly rejected her home insurance claim, following an escape of 
water.
What happened
Mrs C says water was coming from her ceiling on 10 May 2019. She called L&G and they 
said shed have to use her home emergency cover. Thats provided by a different business, 
but Mrs C says someone came out and said it was the shower seal.
Mrs C says they stopped using the shower for a week, and water was still coming through, 
so she called a plumber out on 17 May 2019. The plumber removed the shower tray but 
found it to be dry beneath. He then unboxed the hand basin and discovered a leak behind 
there, which he fixed.
Because of this, Mrs C contacted L&G again. They arranged for the damage to be assessed 
on 21 May 2019. The contractor concluded that the damage had been underneath the 
shower tray, and the claim was declined.
Mrs C then had some difficulties in appealing the matter with the report her plumber had 
provided. L&G at one point suggested there would be cover for the damage caused by the 
leak behind the hand basin, but later said the main cause was the shower so the claim was 
still declined.
Mrs C was also unhappy with the surveyor taking a photograph showing her husband in his 
pyjamas.
Mrs C brought the matter to our service for an independent view.
An investigator here looked into Mrs Cs concerns. On reviewing the report provided by Mrs 
Cs plumber and one provided by L&Gs surveyor, they concluded the damage was likely to 
have been caused over a significant period of time. They accepted there was a leak from 
behind the hand basin but felt the majority of the damage resulted from failed sealant around 
the shower tray.
Mrs C didnt agree with this, she maintained that the damage had been caused by the leak 
behind the hand basin and mentioned that the joiner who fixed her ceiling concluded the 
same. Because agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying Ive no doubt this has been a very difficult time for Mrs C. But its 
for me to consider the evidence and arguments before me, and having done so I dont think 
L&G was unfair in declining the claim. Ill explain why.
I believe its likely there were two separate leaks at Mrs Cs property. I appreciate Mrs C said 
he was rude but the person from the home emergency company said the leak was due to 
the sealant, and so did L&Gs surveyor. I think it would be unlikely for them to believe this if 
there werent at least some signs of it.
And I understand Mrs Cs plumber removed the shower tray when trying to trace the source 
of the leak. I accept that he probably did this on the basis of what Mrs C had been told by the 
home emergency company, but I also dont think its likely he wouldve done so if it looked 
fine.
Bearing in mind Mrs Cs policy says it will not pay for Loss or damage caused by the failure 
or lack of grout and/or sealant in your home., I dont think its unreasonable for any such 
damage to be excluded from the claim.
That said, I note what Mrs C has said about not using the shower for a week and water still 
being present. I believe thats due to the separate leak that Mrs Cs plumber found behind 
the hand basin. Theres conflicting evidence in the reports as to whether that was the main 
cause for the damage and the subsequent ceiling collapse. However, I think theres enough 
to suggest that this was an ongoing problem that there had been signs of for some time.
I say this because L&Gs surveyor took some voice recordings during his inspection and in 
one of those he refers to the leak having been present since the beginning of March 2019. 
And a person who I understand to be Mrs Cs husband, when asked if that was about right, 
said yes. I appreciate Mrs Cs husband has no recollection of this and says he wasnt aware 
a recording was being made, but I dont think its likely he wouldve said yes if he didnt 
agree with the statement.
Further, L&Gs call notes suggest Mrs C told them the pipes behind the hand basin werent 
fitted correctly and that this had been an issue over a number of years. I appreciate we dont 
have the call recording to support this but note that Mrs C has also said the local council 
didnt fit the bathrooms correctly in her road.
Mrs Cs policy says it doesnt provide cover for gradual damage that is known about. I know 
Mrs C has said this issue first arose on 10 May 2019 but bearing in mind what her husband 
said  and the other notes Ive mentioned  it seems likely to me that they were aware of the 
problem prior to this even if the source was yet to be determined.
The policy also says it doesnt provide cover for faulty workmanship, so if that was the case I 
wouldnt be able say L&G needs to cover the damage caused. 
I understand Mrs C has also been unhappy with the general service provided by L&G, and 
the home emergency provider (although I cant comment on that in this case as its a 
separate business). And with the picture of her husband that was included in the surveyors 
report. I note they agreed to remove the picture and that they apologised for this, I dont think 
I can require them to do any more in relation to that.
I also appreciate Mrs C was led at one point to believe that part of the claim may be payable, 
given the view that there were two leaks. I can see that L&G considered that to be a possibility at one point, but they later decided to decline the claim in full. Given my findings, I 
dont think they were wrong to do so.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman