DRN-4283358
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as G has complained that Agency Management Network Limited 
(AMN) did not place its Marine Cargo insurance policy when requested, which led to its claim 
not being covered by the insurer.
Mr T, a director of G, has brought the complaint on Gs behalf.
This complaint concerns the actions of AMNs appointed representative. As AMN has 
accepted it is accountable for the actions of its appointed representative, any reference to 
AMN includes the actions of its appointed representative, although I will also at times refer to 
the agent as well.
What happened
G purchased business protection insurance through an appointed representative of AMN, 
who I will refer to as W, to start on 1 April 2020. AMN is an insurance intermediary. G said it 
believed that the cover it purchased included a Marine Cargo insurance policy.
G claimed on its policy with the insurer after an item it owned was damaged in transit on      
3 April 2020. The insurer declined Gs claim. It said there was no cover in place as the 
Marine Cargo policy had not been incepted until 6 May 2020.
G complained to AMN. It said W had confirmed that cover for Maine Cargo insurance had 
started on 1 April 2020, as requested, and provided documents to show a start date of         
1 April 2020. G said that it only discovered that it was not covered after making the claim. G 
said this had led to a financial loss of around £90,000 for the damaged item, as well as 
causing it a great deal of stress and frustration.
AMN said that G had asked for cover for Marine Cargo insurance on 4 May 2020 and W had 
confirmed cover to G in an email dated 6 May 2020. It said G queried the level of cover on 
22 May 2020 and then reported a claim on 28 May 2020.
Unhappy with AMNs response, G brought its complaint to our service. In addition to the 
points it has already made to AMN, it provided a letter it had received from the insurer which 
asked to interview G about what happened at the sale of the policy. The letter said that W 
had been arrested in relation to amending Gs policy documents.
AMN said that W put cover in place when it was requested on 4 May 2020. And that, when 
requesting the cover, G did not declare that there was likely to be a claim until 28 May 2020, 
even though the incident had occurred in April 2020. AMN also said that it had pursued a
claim against the third party on Gs behalf as G did not think that its business should be 
penalised for damage that it was not responsible for. AMN said that it had no knowledge of 
the insurance documents showing a start date of 1 April 2020. It said the only document it 
was aware of was the schedule from the insurer which showed a start date of 6 May 2020.
Our Investigator looked into Gs complaint and recommended it be upheld. He thought W 
had made an error in how it sold the policy and that had caused G a financial loss. To put 
things right he thought AMN should pay G the value of its claim, plus 8% simple interest. He 
also said AMN should pay G £500 to compensate for the inconvenience it had caused.
G accepted our Investigators findings but AMN did not. It said that the emails between W 
and G in March 2020 were quotes and it was clear from an email on 7 April 2020 that G did 
not have the cover in place. AMN said that it thought G had called up to add the cover in 
May 2020 knowing that it needed to claim but did not disclose this information. Our 
Investigator provided AMN with a copy of the Marine Cargo insurance documents which 
showed a start date of 1 April 2020, as well as the letter from the insurer relating to Ws 
arrest.
AMN said that the letterhead on the document showing a start date of 1 April 2020 was not 
on the correct letterhead and it could not find any communication from W showing that the 
Marine Cargo insurance had been incepted prior to 6 May 2020. AMN said it was aware that 
W had been arrested in relation to this, but said that the arrest was largely due to other 
issues. It said that if W had amended the documents then it would have done so under 
duress from G. AMN added that it was no longer associated with W.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 April 2023 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
this complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to reach a decision on this complaint, the key question for me to consider is whether 
W, as AMNs appointed representative, did anything wrong which caused G to incur a 
financial loss. Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
AMN said that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. This means that W had to provide 
G with enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading to enable G to decide if 
the policy was suitable.
The information available from the sale of Gs policies is limited. I understand that calls 
occurred between W and G but they were on Ws mobile and therefore not recorded. So I 
have reached a decision on the information I have available, based on what I think is most 
likely to have happened.
In an email dated 12 March 2020 W refers to a meeting where cover for every eventuality 
was discussed. W went on to provide quotes for different options for cover at around 
£72,000 per year and £78,000 per year. I have not seen any notes from the meeting that W 
referred to, nor have I seen anything which sets out Gs demands and needs. However, in 
response, G said Can we double check that this includes; Maritime insurance, business 
interruption and business intervention. W replied saying, Yes I can confirm that all of the 
below is insured. W said that the only thing that wasnt covered was coronavirus. There are 
some further emails where G said it wanted to get the price down to around £5,300 per 
month. W said it could do this but there would be significantly less cover and for liabilities 
only.
W sent G an email on 7 April 2020 setting out all of the cover provided. This did not include 
Marine Cargo insurance, but did include Business Interruption insurance, which includes 
what G referred to as business intervention. The total cost of the policy was just over 
£80,000 for the year. I can see that G received this email as it replied to say the company 
name had changed and needed amending.AMN said that G called to request Marine Cargo cover on 4 May 2020. However, I have not 
been provided with this call. There are emails after 4 May 2020 in which W said that G has 
cover in place for Marine Cargo insurance. But I do not think that these emails show when 
the cover was requested.
G has provided an email which indicates that on 19 May 2020 W sent G a Marine Cargo 
Insurance Schedule which said that the period of cover was from 1 April 2020 until 31 March 
2021.
I do not believe that it is in dispute that cover for Marine Cargo Insurance was incepted on    
6 May 2020. However, on balance, I think that G requested the cover when buying the policy 
in March 2020 and W made an error in not adding the cover to the policy from 1 April 2020. I 
say this because G double checked that the quote included Marine Cargo insurance which 
indicates to me that it had previously been discussed. The other policies were incepted on   
1 April 2020, including Business Interruption insurance, which was the other part of the cover 
G asked about when double checking the cover included.
While there was some discussion about removing cover to reduce costs, the overall cost of 
the policy did not reduce from the amount quoted. Therefore, I dont think its likely that 
Marine Cargo insurance was removed to reduce costs and I dont think G would have 
wanted to have been left without Marine Cargo insurance given the risk it would incur in 
transporting its items around. I appreciate that Marine Cargo insurance was not included in 
the list of covers that W sent to G on 7 April 2020 and G did not query this. However, I think 
G was entitled to rely on Ws email of 12 March 2020 which confirmed that Marine Cargo 
insurance was covered.
My view that the broker made an error is supported by W providing G with a Marine Cargo 
insurance schedule on 19 May 2020 which showed the cover for Marine Cargo insurance 
started on 1 April 2020. I have also taken into account that AMN has been unable to provide 
any call recordings relating to the sale of the policy and do not think it would be fair and 
reasonable for G to be disadvantaged by this.
For all of these reasons, I am not persuaded by AMNs view that G only called to add the 
cover after the item was damaged. As G has forwarded the email from W with the Marine 
Cargo schedule showing cover starting on 1 April 2020 attached, I am also not persuaded 
that G amended the document to reflect the incorrect date.
I believe that if it was not for Ws error, G would have had cover in place at the time of the 
item being damaged. I have not seen anything from AMN to indicate that the policy would 
not have provided cover if it had been in place. Therefore, I intend to find that the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint is for AMN to compensate G to the value of what it 
would have received in settlement of its claim as this is the financial loss Ws error has 
caused.
Gs policy covers damage to items of cargo damaged in transit. The policy says that the 
insurer has the option to repair or replace the insured item, so I think this is what the insurer 
would have done if the cover had been in place. I note that AMN initially offered to try to 
recover the cost of repairing the item directly from the third party. G has confirmed that AMN 
was not successful in doing this but if AMN did recover any money from the third party on
Gs behalf it should let me know by the response date given above.
G has provided invoices for repair which total £89,597.81. I note that this includes VAT. As G 
is VAT registered AMN will not need to pay the VAT element of the repairs which from the 
invoices I believe is £5,492. I also think it is fair and reasonable for AMN to deduct the £250 excess G would have needed to pay under the policy.
Therefore, unless AMN provides me with any information which persuades me the costs set 
out above would not have been recoverable under the policy, or are unreasonable for any 
other reason, I think part of the fair and reasonable outcome is for AMN to pay G the total 
amount it is claiming for repairs, minus VAT and an excess. This means that to put things 
right AMN should pay G £83,855.81.
As G has paid these invoices I also think it would be fair and reasonable for AMN to add 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date G paid each invoice to the date it makes payment. 
This is to compensate G for being without money it should have had.
I also accept that this error has caused G some inconvenience as it has had to arrange and 
pay for all of the repairs itself. I agree with our Investigator that £500 is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation to reflect this.
G accepted my provisional decision but AMN strongly disputed my findings. In summary, it 
said:
It had assessed Gs needs for Marine Cargo insurance and placed the cover when 
requested. 
Marine Cargo insurance was not mentioned in Ws quotation email of 12 March 2020. 
AMN is unable to trace any of the subsequent correspondence between W and G but 
it does not believe that any of the emails provided by G evidence the placing of the 
Marine Cargo cover. There was no instruction from G to place Marine Cargo 
insurance until 4 May 2020. 
W sent G an email on 7 April 2020 which set out the cover that had been placed. 
This did not include Marine Cargo insurance and G did not question that. In the 
absence of a note of the conversation or a subsequent email, the best evidence of 
what G had requested is the email of 7 April and Gs response which only requested 
a name change. 
AMN did not agree that it was reasonable for me to conclude that G was entitled to 
rely on Ws email of 12 March to confirm that Marine Cargo insurance was included. 
It was for G to check the documents, as it appears to have done given that it 
requested a name change. 
Marine Cargo insurance would have incurred an additional cost of £4,050, which has 
not been paid. This is a significant cost given that G had stated its priority was to 
keep monthly costs low. 
W placed the cover as requested on 4 May 2020 and sent G a letter dated 6 May 
2020 clearly stating that the cover stared from 6 May 2020. AMN would have 
expected G to query the cover if it had been provided with contradictory schedules. 
AMN cannot find any record on its system of the email from W to G dated 19 May 
2020 showing the policy had a start date of 1 April 2020. 
There is no record of G disclosing the damage or the potential claim prior to the call 
on 4 May 2020. 
AMN did not agree that the policy would have provided cover. The policy included a 
clause which required the insured to notify the insurer of the damage as soon as reasonably possible. AMN said G appears to have been aware of the damage on      
3 April 2020 but did not inform AMN of the damage until 28 May 2020 and this may 
have prejudiced the insurers position. 
AMN agreed that, in the event of it being required to compensate G, it should not be 
required to pay the £250 excess or the VAT element. It also said the amount should 
be reduced by the outstanding £4,050 premium. 
I asked for Gs comments on whether it had paid the outstanding premium. G sent copies of 
payment slips which it believed showed that this premium had been paid. It said it had paid a 
total of £80,213.04.
I also asked G for evidence that it had Marine Cargo insurance in the previous policy year 
and for a video from its system opening the email dated 19 May 2020 and the attachment of 
the schedule showing a cover start date of 1 April 2020. G provided this evidence and the 
video clip was provided to AMN for its comments.  
I asked AMN for evidence from its system showing that the letter from W to G dated 6 May 
2020 had been sent; as well as screenshots showing the searches it had carried out to 
locate the email from W to G dated 19 May. I also asked AMN for a breakdown of the 
premiums for the cover placed for G. 
AMN did not provide the requested screenshots from its system nor did it provide any 
comments on Gs video clip. It provided a breakdown of premiums which totalled £77,280 
plus interest at approximately 4.5%. AMN said G owed it a further £4,200 for another Marine 
Cargo policy which it had subsequently placed. AMN added that it was contacting the third 
party responsible for the damage to ascertain whether G had recovered any of its losses 
from them. 
Before reaching a final decision, I sent both parties an email dated 20 July 2023 in which I 
set out my provisional findings on the further information I had received. I said:
I thank both parties for their comments following my provisional decision and subsequent 
email.
Further information has been provided. And while this does not change the outcome I 
intended to reach in my provisional decision, I am giving both parties an opportunity to 
respond to my reasons for this.
I asked G to provide a video showing how it accessed the message from W, including 
access to the attachment showing that the policy commenced on 1 April. I have not seen 
anything in this video clip which persuades me that it is likely that the email has been 
amended by G. AMN has been provided with this video and has been given an opportunity 
to comment. I understand AMN said it has issues with its software but our Investigator sent 
the clip on 21 June 2023 so I think AMN has had sufficient time to view the clip.
I also asked AMN to provide evidence from its IT system to support that it had looked for an 
email from Gs broker dated 19 May 2020 as well as evidence that the letter showing that 
cover started on 6 May 2020 had been sent. I have not been provided with this.
AMN said that Gs policies were funded by a loan which totalled £77,280.00, plus interest of 
about 4.5%
The funding covered the following:1 x Commercial Motor Fleet Policy - £47,200
2 x Commercial Combined Policies - £28,326.50
1 x Property Owners Policy - £1,753.50
Total amount funded
£77,280.00
This amount, when adding interest to the loan, is consistent with the quote provided by Gs 
broker. This reinforces my belief that is it most likely that Gs broker did not include Marine 
Cargo insurance when quoting and made an error when confirming in the email of 12 March 
2020 that the cover included marine insurance. Taking everything into account, I remain of 
the view that it was reasonable for G to rely on this information and believe that cover for 
marine insurance was included. G has also provided its insurance policy for 2019-2020 to 
support that this is cover which it would have wanted.
Therefore, I intend to require AMN to compensate G for its loss.
AMN said the premium for the marine cargo policy remains outstanding, as does a separate 
Marine Cargo policy which was incepted later.
G said it paid £80,213. This is consistent with the amount AMN believes has been paid when 
adding interest to the premiums set out above. I understand G believes that it has paid for 
the Marine Cargo policy but I dont think its likely that it did. I think its more likely than not 
that even though W confirmed that the quote included Marine Cargo insurance, this wasn't 
the case. I think it is fair and reasonable that G pays for the policy as this is a cost it would 
have incurred if its broker had not made an error. Therefore, AMN can deduct £4,050 from 
the £83,855.81 I intend to require it to pay. The other outstanding premium for the separate 
Marine Cargo policy is not part of this complaint and therefore I am not going to allow AMN 
to also deduct that amount.
This means that I intend to require AMN to pay G £79,805.81, plus 8% interest from the date 
G paid the invoices until the date AMN makes payment, plus £500 compensation for the 
unnecessary inconvenience.
I asked both parties to respond with any further comments by 2 August 2023. 
G responded to say that it had no further comments. AMN did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there has been no further comments in response to my email of 20 July 2023, I have not 
been persuaded to depart from the provisional findings I reached. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and subsequent email of 20 July 2023, I 
remain of the view that AMNs agents error led to Gs Marine Cargo insurance policy not 
being placed when it should have been. If not for the error, I believe that G would have 
bought Marine Cargo insurance and would have had the cover in place when making the 
claim. AMN does not believe that Gs insurer would have paid the claim, given the late notification. I 
have considered this point but I am not persuaded by it. The notification clause that AMN 
has pointed to says:
You must notify Us as soon as reasonably possible using the contact details 
supplied in the Schedule, of any Damage likely to give rise to a claim under this 
policy. You will still be covered if You fail to give such notification provided that 
the incident is notified to Us in writing within three months from the time You first 
become aware of it provided that in Our opinion the delay in notification:
A) has not prejudiced the investigation or mitigation of the claim and
B) has not materially influenced the renewal of, or Our underwriting of this policy.
AMN said G became aware of the damage on 3 April 2020 and notified AMN on         
28 May 2020. This is within the three months set out by the clause above. I have noted 
AMNs point that the notification might have prejudiced the insurers position but it has 
not provided me with anything to persuade me that would most likely be the case. 
Therefore, it remains that I believe AMNs agents error caused G a loss it would not 
otherwise have had; and the fair and reasonable outcome is for AMN to compensate G 
for the loss caused by the error. 
Putting things right
The fair and reasonable outcome is for AMN to compensate G for its losses by paying it 
£79,805.81, plus interest on that amount at 8% simple per annum from the date of G paid 
the invoices until the date AMN makes payment. AMN should also pay G an additional £500 
compensation for the unnecessary inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, in my provisional decision and email of 20 July 2023, I uphold 
this complaint and require Agency Management Network Limited to do as set out in the 
Putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman