DRN-2063577
The complaint
Ms M complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms M was given six short-term loans by Mr Lender between February 2012 and 
March 2014. A summary of her borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 23/02/2012 20/04/2012 1 £300.00 £397.00 2
2 21/04/2012 27/04/2012 1 £400.00 £527.00
Break in lending
3 24/11/2013 21/01/2014 2 £550.00 £715.00
4 21/01/2014 21/02/2014 1 £600.00 £780.00
5 21/02/2014 21/03/2014 1 £600.00 £780.00
6 21/03/2014 12/11/2019 1 £600.00 £780.00 2
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender should have agreed to lend loans 2 to 6 to Ms M as 
proportionate checks would have shown she had borrowing with other short-term lenders as 
well as the cost of the repayments being a significant portion of Ms Ms income.  
Mr Lender disagreed and said the pattern indicated Ms M was borrowing as and when she 
needed funds. It also explained it carried out checks on Ms M each time she applied for a 
loan. These checks included affordability checks and reviewing information from credit 
reports. But it did offer to uphold loans 5 and 6. The offer was put to Ms M, but she declined 
it. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
There was a break in Ms Ms borrowing from Mr Lender. There was a gap of 19 months 
between loan 2 and loan 3. I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to view this gap as 
an indication that Ms Ms finances had stabilised after whatever the circumstances were that 
had caused her to take out the loans in the first instance. So, I will look at Ms Ms borrowing 
in two separate lending chains. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender needed to do more before it lent Ms M loan 1. Ms M 
hasnt disagreed, so I wont be making any further findings on this loan because it no longer 
appears to be in dispute. But Ive kept the loan in mind when thinking about the overall 
borrowing relationship between Ms M and Mr Lender. 
Having carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint, Im partly upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Chain one 
Mr Lender said it carried out checks before it lent loan 2 to Ms M. But, as Ms M had deferred 
repaying her first loan twice and given the amount Ms M was borrowing plus interest, that 
would be repayable the next month, Mr Lender ought to have been looking to build a clearer picture about Ms Ms finances than it did before lending her this loan. Such as asking to see 
her bank statements and a copy of her payslip/bills. 
Had Mr Lender done proportionate checks for this loan, its likely to have found Ms M was 
borrowing from a lot of other short-term lenders and the repayments for these loans were 
increasing her monthly outgoings significantly. 
Mr Lender would have also likely seen that Ms M was also using on-line gambling sites 
regularly and the total of amounts of bets she was placing often exceeded her income. Such 
financial behaviour ought to have caused Mr Lender to question whether the loan 
repayments were sustainable for Ms M and whether it should have continued to lend to her.  
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 2.
Chain two
Mr Lender says it carried out adequate checks on Ms M when she applied for loan 3. This 
included verifying her employment and income. It also says it carried out credit checks 
which didnt reveal anything of concern. However, I think if Mr Lender had properly 
considered the information it had about Ms Ms financial situation and the lending, I think it 
would have seen that Ms M was not able to take on this borrowing or any subsequent 
loans. 
I say this because Ms M was borrowing £550, plus interest, which was due to be repaid in 
two instalments. The first instalment was an interest only payment of £165. This meant that 
Ms M would be repaying £715 for the second instalment from her monthly declared income 
of £1,400. The repayment represented a significant proportion of Ms Ms income and I think 
Mr Lender ought to have realised this and the potential for Ms M to struggle to make the 
repayment. And the fact Ms M took out her third loan on the same day as repaying loan 2, I 
think proves that Ms M was unable to sustainably make the repayments and this loan or 
any of the following loans shouldnt have been given.  
I have noted Mr Lenders comments about the fact Ms M was able to repay all her loans. 
Whilst Ms M might not have fallen into arrears with her loans from Mr Lender, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that repaying the loans wasnt proving problematic.
So, Im also upholding Ms Ms complaint about loans 3 to 6.  
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Ms M paid on loans 2 to 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2 to 6 from Ms Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
Im partially upholding Ms Ms complaint. PDL Finance Limited should put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman