DRN-1622808
The complaint
Mr D complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA ("Inter Partner") unfairly declined a claim he 
made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D had a legal expenses insurance policy underwritten by Inter Partner. One of his 
neighbours was granted planning permission to extend their property. Mr D thought that this 
was in breach of covenants which had been put in place when the properties were 
constructed. He wanted to take legal action to prevent any building work taking place.
Mr D made a claim on his legal expenses insurance. Inter Partner declined to cover the 
claim. It said that the granting of planning permission did not mean that an "insured incident" 
had occurred, or was about to imminently occur. And so the policy didn't cover the legal 
expenses Mr D was incurring at that time.
Mr D disagreed with this and complained to Inter Partner. His view was that the granting of 
planning permission did amount to an "insured incident." He thought it was him initiating 
legal action which meant that building works hadn't yet been started. When Inter Partner 
didn't change its decision, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didn't think Inter Partner had done anything wrong. His opinion was that, in 
the absence of any building work having started, the fact that planning permission had been 
granted didn't mean that an insured incident had occurred.
Inter Partner agreed with our investigator, but Mr D didn't. He was clear that the reason work 
hadn't yet started was because he was disputing whether the extension was allowed. he 
said that there was no mention in the policy that building work being started constitutes an 
insured incident. He's asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The dispute here is about whether, at the time of making the claim, an "insured incident" had 
occurred. Inter Partner say the circumstances at that time meant that one hadn't, whereas 
Mr D's sure that an insured incident had occurred.
I've looked at what Mr D's policy terms and conditions say. The policy says it will cover 
"Costs to pursue a legal action for nuisance or trespass against the person or organisation 
infringing your legal rights in relation to the insured property." 
The terms and condition also have a definition of an "insured incident." It's defined as "The 
incident or the first of a series of incidents which may lead to a claim under this insurance. Only one insured incident shall be deemed to have arisen from all causes of action, incidents 
or events that are related by cause or time."
Mr D's correct in his observation that the definition of "insured incident" doesn't specifically 
refer to the starting of building work. But I don't think something to that effect is needed. To 
list every matter which would constitute an "insured incident" would be unnecessary given 
the scope of the policy. It covers a number of different situations, including personal liability 
and employment matters. So a broad definition of an "insured incident" is to be expected.
What I'd expect Inter Partner to have done here is be reasonable when it was assessing 
whether the circumstances of Mr D's claim meant that an insured incident had occurred 
when he made the claim.
I'm satisfied that a reasonable interpretation of an "insured incident" in the context of this 
section of the policy is something happening which causes an actual nuisance or trespass to 
Mr Ds property I don't think that planning permission being granted can be said to fall within 
that interpretation. The granting of planning permission would seem to give rise to a situation 
where such a nuisance could occur once works to implement that permission are underway.
I can see that Inter Partner haven't taken a literal interpretation of what the policy says when 
it looked into the claim. It said that if building work had been imminent, it would have looked 
at whether it could cover Mr D's claim. I think that's fair.
Inter Partner make a point which I'm persuaded is relevant here. It says that the act of 
applying for, and being granted, planning permission is not evidence in of itself that the 
building work was going to start imminently. It observes that people will apply for, and 
receive, planning permission for development or redevelopment of a property some time 
before they intend to start the work. And so I think it's fair to say that planning permission 
being granted doesn't mean that a nuisance or trespass has occurred, or is imminent. And if 
that's the case, then an "insured incident" hasnt occurred  theres no nuisance or trespass 
infringing Mr Ds legal rights
I know Mr D says that the work was about to start, and would have if legal action by him and 
another neighbour hadn't been started. But I've not seen any evidence to support this. Inter 
Partner asked for evidence to support this, but didn't receive it.
Ordinarily, Inter Partner said it would look again at the claim when building work either 
started or was imminent. But Mr D's policy with Inter Partner expired before that happened, 
and he's now got cover with another insurer. Mr D says the new insurer has declined cover 
as he didn't tell it about this potential claim when he took out the policy. He says he didn't tell 
the new insurer as he expected the claim to be covered by Inter Partner. I won't comment 
further on this.If Mr D is unhappy with his new insurers actions he can  make a complaint 
about that separately
So I'm satisfied that when Mr D made this claim, no insured incident had occurred for the 
circumstances as presented. And so Inter Partners decision not to cover  Mr Ds claim was 
fair.
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold Mr D's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.Ben Williams
Ombudsman