DRN-2447492
The complaint
Ms M has complained about the poor service she received when she tried to discuss the 
renewal of her car insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
What happened
Ms Ms car insurance policy with UKI was due for renewal on 29 March 2020. This was a 
Sunday. On the same day, Ms M tried to speak to UKI a number of times to discuss the 
renewal. But she said there was an automated message and she wasnt able to speak to 
anyone. 
Ms M contacted UKI again in May 2020. UKI told Ms M that due to the time that had passed, 
it was too late to renew her policy on the premium it had quoted for March 2021. So it 
recalculated the premium and it was much higher. 
Ms M complained to UKI as she said she hadnt been able to get through to it sooner. In May 
2020 UKI accepted that it could have investigated Ms Ms concerns more thoroughly about 
being able to get through to UKI. It paid Ms M £50 compensation. But UKI said the premium 
it quoted was correct. UKI said it couldnt trace receiving any calls from Ms M after 10 March 
2020 (which was for an unrelated matter). 
Ms M brought this complaint and other complaints about UKI to us. The other complaints are 
being dealt with separately by this service. 
Ms M provided a copy of an itemised phone bill which showed the calls she made to UKI on 
29 March 2020. 
Our investigator considered the information provided by both Ms M and UKI. UKI said when 
Ms M called, due to the Covid pandemic the phone lines were closed apart from for 
emergency calls. It said the automated message Ms M would have heard gave her details of 
other ways to contact it online while it had reduced its business hours to deal with calls due 
to government restrictions at the time. When Ms M called in May 2020, it was over a month 
since the renewal date had passed. So the investigator thought UKIs decision to recalculate 
the premium was fair. And she thought the compensation it had paid was reasonable. 
Ms M didnt agree. In summary she feels this service hasnt properly considered the efforts 
she made in trying to prevent her policy from lapsing. She doesnt believe weve properly 
considered the impact of having to arrange car insurance elsewhere due to the significant 
increase in premium quoted by UKI in May 2020. Ms M doesnt feel we have acted 
impartially and says the compensation UKI paid isnt enough. 
So, as Ms M didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand from calls between this service and Ms M that she received the renewal invite 
from UKI around a month before the renewal date of 29 March 2020. From the evidence 
available, Ms M made five calls to three UKI numbers on Sunday 29 March between 12pm 
and 1pm. But unfortunately she wasnt able to get through. Ms M says from memory the 
automated message said UKI was only accepting urgent calls and there were long wait 
times.
Although Ms M wasnt able to speak to UKI on the renewal date, I dont think she was 
prevented from contacting it in other ways. UKI says if Ms M had emailed it using their online 
contact form, it would have replied to her the following day. 
I dont consider it unreasonable that Ms M couldnt speak to UKI on a Sunday  even if this 
might have been previously possible. UKI said that this was the first Sunday it had closed 
due to government restrictions at the time. It says the automated message explained that to 
buy a policy, customers could go to their website and click on their help and support page. 
Businesses were required to adapt to some very challenging situations at this time, so it 
wasnt unreasonable that they prioritised emergency situations on the phone and directed 
consumers online. 
UKI gave Ms M a further month from the renewal date to contact it to renew her policy. But 
Ms M didnt contact UKI until over a month after the renewal had lapsed. I think Ms M could 
have tried to call UKI again in the four weeks after 29 March 2020. So I dont think it was 
unfair for UKI to say that the renewal premium wasnt available any longer. 
Unhappy with the premium quoted, Ms M chose not to buy a policy with UKI and bought 
alternative cover elsewhere. I understand Ms M feels the compensation UKI offered isnt 
enough to reflect the inconvenience it has caused her. But I dont think UK is responsible for 
any inconvenience caused by Ms M deciding to shop around and buy insurance elsewhere. I 
havent seen enough to show me that the impact of not being able to speak to UKI on 
Sunday 29 March 2020  which is the evidence Ive been provided with  means UKI should 
increase the compensation offer of £50. 
I think UKI gave Ms M sufficient time before and after the renewal date to contact it online - if 
phone contact wasnt possible - to renew her policy. And I think UKI priced a policy for Ms M 
in line with how it would for any other new customer. So I dont think it treated Ms M unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman