DRN-4398937
The complaint
Mr D complains that Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd (Vanguard) delayed the partial 
transfer of his pension plan to buy an annuity resulting in him securing a less favourable 
annuity rate. He wants compensation for his losses, the distress and inconvenience caused 
and for the delay in it dealing with his complaint.
What happened
Mr D wanted to purchase an annuity with £90,000 of his Vanguard pension. He was using a 
financial adviser, who Ill call RL, to assist with this. Mr D told Vanguard he was considering 
this in October 2022. RL provided an annuity illustration from Scottish Widows dated 18 
October 2022. The annuity rate offered was subject to funds being received by Scottish 
Widows by 16 November 2022. 
On 27 October 2022 RL wrote to Vanguard enclosing an authority letter signed by Mr D and 
asked some questions about his plan. Vanguard then received a transfer request from 
Scottish Widows via the Origo transfer system on 8 November 2022. However necessary 
information was missing, and Vanguard requested that Mr Ds postcode be added on 9 
November. Vanguard emailed RL on 10 November 2022 noting that it had received a Origo 
transfer request with incomplete details which it asked to be confirmed. These were provided 
on 22 November 2022. In the meantime, Scottish Widows sent a new request on 10 
November 2022 with the post code added. But Vanguard said that Mr Ds account number 
was incorrect  as it had been on the first Origo request. It asked that this be corrected on 11 
November 2022.  
Mr D says Scottish Widows agreed to hold the annuity rate until 2 December 2022. And a 
third Origo request was made by Scottish Widows and received by Vanguard on 24 
November 2022. But again, the post code was missing, and the account number was 
incorrect. Vanguard requested the post code the same day but didnt request the account 
number be confirmed until 1 December 2022, when Scottish Widows provided the postcode. 
Scottish Widows updated the account number, and a new transfer request was made on 5 
December and Vanguard completed the payment on 14 December 2022.
During this period Mr D says he was in frequent contact with Vanguard to chase progress as 
the various annuity rate deadlines approached. He says Vanguard didnt tell him it was 
unlikely that the deadlines would be met due to its procedures. He complained about the 
delays and problems using Vanguards secure messaging and phone systems, which he said 
were difficult to use and prone to problems. He said if Vanguard had told him that it was 
unlikely to be able to process the transfer in good time, he would have tried to use a different 
pension plan to secure the annuity.  He said the delays had meant he missed out on the 
annuity rate and the income he would receive for the rest of his life was £581.40 per annum 
less as a result. 
Vanguard looked into his complaint and upheld it. But it said it was only responsible for a few 
days delay and wasnt responsible for delays caused by third parties. It said the delays it had 
caused werent to blame for the annuity rate not being secured. It paid Mr D £100 as 
compensation for the delays it had caused. And said it would refer his comments about the 
messaging system and phone lines to the relevant departments. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, and she 
decided to uphold it.
Our investigator said she thought Mr D was owed further compensation, but that Vanguard 
wasnt responsible for the main delays that lost the annuity rate. She said it had already 
accepted it caused some delay in not responding to RL quickly enough and taking one day 
longer the send the funds than normal once the correct Origo request was received. But she 
said Vanguard had also caused a few days further delay by not requesting all outstanding 
details at the same time. But it had requested the correct information by 11 November 2022. 
And this wasnt all provided until the Origo request received on 6 December 2022, which 
was already too late to secure the extended annuity rate. 
She said Vanguard had received multiple incorrect or incomplete Origo requests. And even if 
it had advised all errors at the same time the earliest a correct request would have been 
received was 2 December 2022. Still too late to secure the annuity rate. She said whilst 
Vanguard hadnt said it wouldnt be able to meet the deadline, it also hadnt guaranteed that 
it could. But she said it was fair that Vanguard pay Mr D a further £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. But she couldnt consider how Vanguard had dealt with 
Mr Ds complaint as this wasnt a regulated activity. 
Mr D disagreed. He said Vanguard had failed to provide essential information about its 
processes and likely timeframes to complete them. He said when he spoke to it on 7 
November about 16 November 2022 deadline. It should have told him that as it hadnt yet 
received an Origo request, that deadline couldnt be met as it required five working days to 
make a payment. And it would have known that transfer requests frequently contain errors 
that might cause delays. If it had provided this information Mr D said he would have 
reassessed the situation and either used other pension plans to secure the annuity, asked 
his broker to obtain new annuity quotes whilst rates were still high or used other means to 
speed up the process. 
As Mr D doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint, but I dont think Vanguard is responsible for 
the financial losses Mr D says he has suffered.
I understand Mr Ds frustration about what has happened, and he does seem to have had a 
poor outcome here through no fault of his own. However, this complaint is about Vanguard 
and based on the evidence I have seen I dont think it is responsible for the delays that 
caused the annuity rate to be missed. And Mr D may want to consider the actions of the 
other third parties involved in resolving the issue. 
In terms of Mr Ds further point about how long Vanguard took to consider his complaint. I 
understand his frustration at the further delay. But this isnt something I can consider as 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. That means it doesnt fall within the jurisdiction 
of our service. Likewise, our service doesnt regulate businesses. That means I cant tell 
Vanguard how to operate communication systems or to change or improve them. But I can 
award compensation if problems result in unfair outcomes.It is the responsibility of the receiving arrangement to initiate transfer requests on the Origo 
system. This system basically exchanges information electronically to cut down on 
paperwork and postal delays. However, like all electronic systems it relies on the accurate 
inputting of all necessary data. So, the onus is on the receiving arrangement requesting the 
transfer to get the details right. That didnt happen here, and I disagree with Mr Ds comment 
that transfer requests frequently contain errors. That shouldnt be the case and whilst 
Vanguard might have saved a few days by pointing out all errors at the same time, that 
doesnt explain why the same errors kept being repeated. 
I havent seen evidence from RL or Scottish Widows or seen details of the services to be 
provided to Mr D by them. Particularly by RL, who I note were paid a commission of 
£1,444.00 by Scottish Widows. But I can see from Vanguards file that it emailed RL asking it 
to provide missing details on 10 November. But RL only replied on 22 November 2022, after 
receiving a reminder. 
The information outstanding was very basic. Being Mr Ds date of birth, his address including 
postcode and his national insurance number. When it did reply, RL said it was extremely 
keen to get his (Mr Ds) funds transferred. However, that isnt apparent from the length of 
time it took to respond to the queries raised. And despite this when the next Origo request 
was submitted on 24 November 2022, this repeated the same errors made previously. That 
was hardly Vanguards fault. 
Even if Vanguard had requested both corrections the same day instead of just one, it still 
took Scottish Widows five working days to submit a new Origo request. Giving no time for 
Vanguard to process this and release a payment before the expiry of the annuity illustration 
on 2 December 2022.
As noted, I havent seen evidence from RL or Scottish Widows, but from the minimal contact 
recorded in Vanguards files, both seem to have been remarkably passive in the 
circumstances. And I think its reasonable to say that generally it would be their responsibility 
to proactively move the transfer along rather than leaving Mr D to chase up Vanguard. And, 
usually, it is the role of a financial adviser to manage the process, monitor annuity rates, deal 
with problems, and shepherd the pension providers involved towards the clients desired 
outcome. 
So, I dont think it is fair to hold Vanguard responsible for Mr Ds financial losses here. It was 
dependent on Origo requests and responses to queries being provided in good time for any 
deadline to be met. Perhaps it could have chased third parties to correct their own errors 
more aggressively than it did. But it isnt reasonable to apportion blame for most of the 
delays on Vanguard when they appear to have been primarily caused by others. 
However, I do think Vanguard added to the frustration and inconvenience Mr D suffered, by 
causing some further delay to the process through not requesting all missing or incorrect 
information be updated at the same time. And Mr D did have some problems in contacting 
Vanguard when he needed to. And I think its fair that he be paid additional compensation in 
respect of this.
Putting things right
Mr D has been inconvenienced by Vanguards delays and problems contacting it. So, I think 
its fair that Vanguard pay Mr D another £100 in compensation to give £200 in total for the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd.
I direct Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd to pay Mr D a further £100 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman