DRN-3586908
The complaint
Mr S complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) didnt carry out proportionate affordability checks before it granted him a loan. 
  
What happened
Mr S was advanced one instalment loan on 30 May 2017 for £200. Mr S was contracted to 
make six monthly repayments of £62.47. Mr S has had some problems repaying his loan 
and MoneyBoat, in the final response letter, says an outstanding balance remains. 
Following Mr Ss complaint MoneyBoat wrote to him on 26 July 2021 outlining the checks it 
had carried out before this loan was approved and it considered these checks to be 
proportionate. The checks also showed it that the loan was likely to be affordable for him.
MoneyBoat also offered, in the final response letter to write off as a gesture of goodwill the 
outstanding interest on his outstanding balance.
 
Mr S didnt accept the outcome and referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Following the complaint being referred here, the Financial Ombudsman contacted 
MoneyBoat on several occasions to request a copy of its file. Which would show the checks 
it carried out and the results of those checks. 
However, despite a number of requests, no response was received. So, an adjudicator 
reviewed the complaint based on the limited information that he had, which amounted to the 
final response letter which contained details of the checks MoneyBoat says it carried out.
He explained that Mr S wouldve been left with very little disposable income each month 
after the loan repayments and all of his other declared living costs. He also concluded that 
the repayment for this loan represented a significant portion of Mr Ss income.  
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr S also didnt respond to the view or provide any further comments. 
As MoneyBoat hasnt responded to the adjudicators view, the adjudicator arranged to refer 
the complaint to an ombudsman for a final decision. As part of that process both 
Mr S and MoneyBoat were provided with a further chance to provide any further comments 
or information for consideration. However, no response was received from either party. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.
For his loan all the information that I have gathered about the checks MoneyBoat carried out 
have come from the final response letter it gave Mr S. 
Based on the final response letter, Mr S declared he had a monthly income of £1,234 which 
MoneyBoat says was checked with the information it received from the credit reference 
agencies as well as a copy of a payslip. But no evidence of these additional checks has 
been provided. 
Mr Ss declared his expenditure to be £690 per month. However, following some sort of 
credit check MoneyBoat increased Mr Ss expenditure figure by an additional £392. Bringing 
his monthly outgoings to around £1,082. This left disposable income of £151 in order to 
make loan repayments of £62.47. MoneyBoat says a credit check was carried out, however, the results of this check havent 
been provided, so I dont know what it was provided with and what it showed about Mr Ss 
financial circumstances. 
After repaying this loan Mr S was left with very little money each month and he wouldve 
been in this position for at least six months. So, he had very little flex in his finances to cover 
any unexpected bills and / or expenditure. This has led me to conclude the loan repayments 
werent likely to be sustainable for Mr S and there was a real risk that he would have 
difficulties making his repayments. Which turned out to be the case.  
I accept, that the final response letter says that Mr S was living at home and so didnt have 
to pay rent / mortgage but his outgoings are still high considering this. So, given the limited 
information that I have, and what I can see in the income and expenditure information Im 
upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr S, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr S his loan. If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debts 
it should buy this back if is able to do so and then take the following steps. If MoneyBoat is 
not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below. 
A. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they 
had been repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr S having made 
overpayments then MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding 
balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. But I would remind it of its regulatory obligation to treat Mr S fairly and with 
forbearance. 
C. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mr S as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman