DRN-2164024
The complaint
Miss L complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss L took out a total of five loans with Satsuma between July 2016 and April 2019.
Loan 
no.Date 
borrowedDate repaid Amount No. of 
instalments
1 03.07.16 21.10.16 £1,000 8
2 26.01.17 24.02.17 £1,150 12
Break in lending
3 23.08.17 15.03.18 £280 9
4 02.08.18 26.03.19 £2,000 12
5 03.04.19 Unknown £2,000 12
Miss L repaid the first two loans much earlier than they were scheduled to be repaid. There 
was then a break of around six months when she didnt have any loans outstanding with 
Satsuma. Miss L repaid loans 3 and 4 in full and, again, earlier than planned. But when she 
brought her complaint to us, a balance remained outstanding on the final loan.
In its response to Miss Ls complaint, Satsuma said it upheld Miss Ls complaint about loan 
1. It said it had calculated a refund by adding up the interest shed paid on that loan, and 
then adding interest at 8% per year to that. It had then used the refund to reduce the 
balance that was outstanding on loan 5. Miss L has more recently told us that she has now 
paid off the remaining balance on loan 5.
Our adjudicator thought that it was right that Miss Ls complaint about loan 1 should be 
upheld. She said, in summary, that the information that Satsuma had about Miss Ls regular 
monthly income and expenditure suggested that Miss L wouldnt be able to afford the 
highest monthly instalment on loan 1. But the adjudicator didnt think Satsuma had been 
wrong to make the remaining loans.
Miss L didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss L 
and to Satsuma on 4 August 2020. I summarise my findings:
I explained that weve set our general approach to complaints about short-term lending 
- including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
that Miss L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
It was important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow 
this was the case. This was because the relevant regulations define sustainable as 
being without undue difficulties, and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. It followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Id carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Ls complaint.
I explained that as Satsuma had upheld Miss Ls complaint regarding loan 1, and the 
refund it calculated was in line with our approach, I wouldnt consider that loan.
Satsuma did some checks before it lent to Miss L. On each occasion it asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. Satsuma then adjusted the 
information that Miss L gave it about her regular monthly income and expenditure by 
applying its own internal safeguards and buffers. And it checked her credit file before 
agreeing the loans. Id seen a summary of the results of those checks and I didnt think 
they showed anything that should have caused additional concerns to Satsuma.As Id mentioned earlier, each of Miss Ls loans was repayable in instalments. So the 
amounts that Miss L needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a 
normal payday loan. But of course she was committing to make those repayments 
over a much longer period.
When she applied for loan 2, after Satsumas adjustments, Miss L would have been 
left with a disposable monthly income of around £325. The highest monthly repayment 
due on loan 2 was just over £190. Based on Satsumas calculations, that would have 
left Miss L with only £135 per month to meet any one-off or unexpected expenditure. 
Id borne in mind that Satsuma had told us it had applied a buffer of £65 per month to 
Miss Ls declared expenditure. But even taking that into account, it wouldnt have 
taken a very large unexpected expense to leave Miss L over-stretched. Whats more, 
Miss L was committing to make those payments every month for 12 months. And 
I thought this made it less likely that Miss L would be able to repay the loan 
sustainably, without having to borrow further.
I acknowledged that Miss L had repaid loan 1 only a couple of months into an eight-
month term. But that didnt necessarily imply that she repaid loan 1 sustainably. And in 
little over three months she was applying to borrow again, and the sum she was asking 
for was a little higher than the first loan had been. That, and the fact that Miss L was 
committing to repay loan 2 over an extended period meant I thought Satsuma should 
have gained as full a picture as possible of Miss Ls financial position before agreeing 
to lend.
Id looked at Miss Ls credit file to see what it was likely that proportionate checks 
would have shown Satsuma. I could see that Miss L had taken out at least ten short-
term loans with other lenders in the last few months of 2016. It was true that it looked 
as if she may have repaid them by the time she applied for loan 2. But I thought that 
the picture Satsuma would have got from more thorough checks would have been of 
someone who had very recently been having significant problems managing their 
money. Adding to this the fact that the repayments would leave Miss L with a relatively 
small disposable income each month for 12 successive months meant that I didnt 
think Satsuma should have made loan 2.
The length of the gap between Miss L repaying loan 2 and applying for loan 3 meant 
that I thought it was reasonable for Satsuma to treat her as a new borrower, and to 
base its checks accordingly.
Loan 3 was for significantly less than Miss Ls previous two loans. That said, she was, 
once again, committing to make monthly repayments over an extended period  in this 
case, nine months. But given the size of the monthly repayments, and the monthly 
income that Miss L had declared, I thought that the checks that Satsuma carried out 
before making loan 3 were proportionate. And I didnt think they showed anything 
which ought to have prompted Satsuma to conclude that Miss L might struggle to 
repay the loan sustainably. So I didnt think Satsuma was wrong to make the loan.
I acknowledged that there was a gap of more than four months between Miss L 
repaying loan 3 and applying for loan 4. But I didnt think that was long enough for 
Satsuma to have reasonably concluded that it was likely that shed overcome her 
previous difficulties. Id also borne in mind that loan 4 marked a very significant step up 
from loan 3. In fact it was Miss Ls largest loan to date and wasnt far short of twice as 
much as her previous largest loan. And she was committing to sustain repayments on 
it every month for twelve months.And this meant, again, that I thought Satsuma should have carried out a thorough 
review of Miss Ls financial situation to check that there was nothing to indicate that 
Miss L might struggle to repay the loan sustainably.
So once again, Id looked at Miss Ls credit report to see what I thought it was likely 
that Satsuma would have discovered if it had looked into Miss Ls financial position in 
as much detail as I thought it should have done.
Miss Ls credit report showed that when she applied for loan 4, proportionate checks 
would have revealed that Miss L now had loans already open with at least six other 
short-term lenders. So I thought it should have been clear to Satsuma that Miss Ls 
financial problems continued. And I didnt think that it should have agreed to make 
loan 4 or loan 5, which followed quickly after.
This meant that I thought Satsuma should put things right by doing as set out below.
further submissions
Miss L has told us shes happy with my provisional decision. Satsuma hasnt commented on 
my provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
Satsuma had already compensated Miss L for loan 1 when she brought her complaint to us. 
But I dont think it should have agreed to make loans 2, 4 or 5 to Miss L. I understand that 
since I issued my provisional decision, Satsuma has paid some further redress to Miss L. 
But to be clear, if it hasnt already done so, Satsuma should:
refund all interest and charges paid by Miss L on loans 2, 4 and 5;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year to each of those amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
remove all negative information about loans 2, 4 and 5 from Miss Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma 
must give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Miss L has told us shes now paid off the remaining balance on loan 5. But if any balance 
remains outstanding, Satsuma may use the compensation that is due to Miss L to repay 
that outstanding amount. However, to be clear, any outstanding balance should be 
recalculated to remove any interest and charges, and to take account of any repayments 
Miss L has made on that loan as though they were applied against the principal sum 
borrowed.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Provident Personal Credit Limited 
(trading as Satsuma) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman