DRN-2808113
The complaint
Mr D on behalf of the estate of Mrs F complains that Partnership Home Loans Limited was 
responsible for the title deeds being incorrectly registered when it administered an equity 
release loan for the late Mr and Mrs F. 
Mr D also complains that when the matter came to light at time of redemption following the 
passing of Mrs F, Partnership Home Loans Limited failed to act quickly enough to resolve 
matters. This led to several offers on the property falling through and additional expenses 
being incurred. 
As a resolution to the complaint, the estate is seeking compensation and an apology from 
Partnership Home Loans Limited.
What happened
The late Mr and Mrs F owned a property that was purchased in 1983. In November 2005 
They applied for an equity release loan with another lender. The loan was later assigned to 
Partnership.
When Mr and Mrs F purchased their property, title registration wasnt compulsory. The event 
triggering first registration was their application to borrow funds against their property in 
2005. At this time Mr and Mrs F had solicitors acting for them as did the lender that preceded 
Partnership (who Ill refer to as A). 
In line with the nature of these types of loans, redemption was required following the passing 
of the second account holder (Mrs F) in July 2019. The estate had six months to sell the 
property from this date. 
In November 2019 the solicitors acting for the estate confirmed probate and raised its 
concerns with A about the incorrectly registered title. Namely that the garage was omitted 
from the title when it was first registered in 2005. 
A disputed it was responsible for the error but nevertheless it contacted land registry to get 
the title amended. It appears A first contacted land registry about the title deeds in 
December 2019 and again in February 2020. The amendment took until 10 July 2020 to 
complete. 
In the meantime, marketing of the property commenced. An offer on the property for 
£153,000 was accepted in January 2020. 
In light of the delays to the sales process, the solicitors acting for the estate asked for 
interest to cease from 27 January 2020. Partnership didnt agree to this on the basis that this 
was only the offer acceptance date. It was willing to consider an approximate redemption 
date as a more reasonable point to cease interest from. 
Partnership asked for this information from the solicitors acting for the estate. A timeline was 
provided, but that wasnt deemed sufficient. Partnership wanted confirmation from the 
buyer(s) conveyancers of the date they would have been in a position to exchange and 
complete had the deeds not needed rectifying with land registry. I cant see this was 
provided. 
That sale fell through. Mr D says this was because A took too long to rectify the title with 
land registry. Some further offers were received, and a sale completed on 30 September 
2020 for £160,000.
During this time, the estate raised a complaint with Partnership. It said that A was 
responsible for incorrectly registering the title in 2005. As a result, the delays caused the 
initial sale to fall through and meant the estate incurred additional expenses. 
Partnership issued its final response on the matter in July 2020. In its response it said it was 
not responsible for registering the title. It said it did what it could to get the title amended but 
did not accept liability for any loss. 
Unhappy with Partnerships response, Mr D on behalf of the estate brought the complaint to 
our service. Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
that it was for the legal ombudsman to decide responsibility for the error. He said that 
Partnership was entitled to rely upon the advice of legal professionals and could not be held 
responsible for As actions, if they were in fact responsible for the error. He also explained 
that our service did not have jurisdiction to consider any complaint against land registry. 
Mr D disagreed. He said there was enough evidence to suggest A was responsible for 
registering the title  namely the letter it issued dated 27 January 2016 confirming 
registration. He also said that because A was appointed by and acting on behalf of the 
lender, it could be held liable. 
Following ongoing communication, our investigator explained to Mr D situations in which we 
can and cant investigate a complaint against a lender and/or hold it responsible for actions 
carried out by an appointed solicitor. 
Mr D thanked our investigator for the update but still asked for the matter to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely to have happened, in 
light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its important for me to set out that when a complaint is brought by the estate of a deceased 
person there are limitations on the types of losses we can consider and any remedy.
The rules set by the financial regular determine who is eligible to bring a complaint to our 
service. The rules say the late Mrs Fs estate is an eligible complainant. 
Mr D, on behalf of the executors, represents the estate but that doesnt make them 
customers of the business, or eligible complainants under our rules. So, Im unable to 
consider any trouble and upset or distress any of them feel theyve been put to, as theyre 
not the eligible complainant. Weve no power to order that they be compensated personally 
for that. We can award compensation to Mrs Fs estate if we believe it has suffered financial loss, but 
we cant award compensation to the estate for upset, as its not possible for an estate to 
suffer upset.
Before Partnership could add their charge onto the title deeds, the property needed to be 
registered first. Its the property owner(s) obligation to register their property. It appears A 
registered the title on Mr and Mrs Fs behalf. I say this because on 27 January 2006 A wrote 
to Mr and Mrs Fs solicitor confirming registration. This was likely agreed between both legal 
parties as a way of combining the title registration and charge registration process to help 
speed things up.
Its unclear exactly how the garage was omitted. But, in any event, even if the error did occur 
as a result of As actions, Im unable to hold Partnership responsible in the circumstances. I 
say this because Partnership is only liable for As actions in situations where the work 
carried out by A was done solely on behalf of Partnership.
As Ive explained, first registration of a title is the owner/borrowers responsibility. It does not 
form part of the usual lending process and so something A did on behalf of Mr and Mrs F. 
Because registering the title is too far removed from the standard lending process its not a 
complaint I can consider against Partnership.
Because, essentially this part of the conveyancing process was carried out for the late Mr 
and Mrs F in a so-called client capacity, this may be a complaint that the estate can take up 
directly with A. 
In November 2019 the error was highlighted, and A took steps to get the title rectified. Mr D 
on behalf of the estate says the process took too long and the estate has lost out financially 
as a result.
For the reasons Ive explained, because this activity of getting the title deeds amended also 
falls outside of the usual lending process, I cant reasonably hold Partnership responsible for 
any impact and/or loss suffered as a result of any delays. 
I can however see that Partnership was willing to consider ceasing interest from the 
estimated date of completion of the first sale, which was presented as 2 March 2020. In early 
April 2020 it asked for evidence from the estates solicitors to verify this so it could consider 
the matter further. It doesnt appear the evidence was ever provided. Mr D says that the sale 
fell through at the end of April 2020 and the property later went to on be sold for a further 
£7,000 a few months later.
So, in the circumstances I cant say Partnership acted unfairly. It was still willing to consider 
the impact this had on the estate. I dont think it was unreasonable for it to want evidence to 
substantiate the request. As this doesnt appear to have been provided, there wasnt more it 
could reasonably do in the circumstances, nor was it required to for the reasons Ive 
explained. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 Arazu Eid
Ombudsman