DRN-3145826
The complaint and background
 Mr R feels that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) was irresponsible to allow him to 
increase his overdraft limit on his current account to £5,000 given his financial circumstances 
at the time. He feels that it would be fair for most of his overdrawn balance to be written off, 
and would like the default regarding this account removed from his credit file.
Halifax looked at Mr Rs complaint, it felt that it had acted reasonably in agreeing the 
overdraft limit increases that Mr R had requested. It also noted that when Mr R had asked for 
assistance with his account it had helped him by refunding or waiving charges and agreeing  
repayment plans. Mr R remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns, he thought Halifax should not have 
agreed to increase Mr Rs overdraft limit on 22 May 2016 as it was clear by that stage that 
he would struggle to manage further borrowing. So the adjudicator said that Halifax should 
refund any charges and fees applied as a result of that overdraft increase. He also set out 
that if there was an outstanding balance remaining on the account when this refund had 
been done then Halifax would need to backdate Mr Rs credit file to reflect what the position 
would have been had it started taking action to assist Mr R with his overdraft in May 2016.
Halifax agreed to refund all charges applied from 22 May 2016, later noting that many of 
these charges had actually already been refunded. After some back and forth and confusion 
about the exact impact on his credit file, Mr R has confirmed he will only accept the 
settlement if the default is removed from his credit file entirely. He also feels that he should 
only have to repay part of the outstanding balance of his account as he feels he would not 
owe as much if Halifax had not agreed to increase his overdraft the way it did. As an 
agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Mr R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place, where thats possible. So where a business lent 
irresponsibly, or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit, that doesnt 
though mean that we wouldnt expect the consumer to still repay funds that they had spent 
and which they had therefore benefitted from.
Mr R says Halifax should do something different here. Hes suggested in his submissions to 
us that it would be fairer for most of the remaining balance on his debt to be written off. He 
feels he would not be in this position if Halifax hadnt agreed to give him such large overdraft 
facilities. Ive thought about what Mr R has said. But Halifax has agreed to remove all the 
interest, fees and charges that it applied to his account after 22 May 2016, which is where I 
think it should have became clear that the overdraft was likely to be unaffordable for Mr R. 
And the significant majority of what Mr R is left with to repay are the funds which he has 
spent. I think its fair to expect Mr R to repay these funds, although Halifax should ensure it 
works with him to agree a repayment plan that is affordable and sustainable.
I appreciate that Mr R thinks Halifax should not have agreed any of the overdraft limit 
increases after the initial overdraft of £200 was agreed but I dont think that the initial few 
overdraft increases were unreasonable. These limits were applied for online where Mr R was 
required to give information about his income and outgoings. And when applying for his 
overdraft limit increases Mr R had, up until 22 May, been declaring an income that was not 
too far off what could be seen coming into his account. These earlier increases were also for 
amounts that could likely be maintained with Mr Rs actual income. But for the 22 May 
increase Mr R declared an income far above what he was actually receiving, and given that 
Mr R had increased his limit several times over the previous few days we would have 
expected Halifax, by this stage, to be looking a bit closer at Mr Rs circumstances. 
With this in mind I dont think Halifax was wrong to have offered Mr R the overdraft increases 
prior to 22 May. So Im satisfied that Halifaxs offer to refund all charges (that have not 
already been refunded) applied to the account from 22 May 2016 is fair.
Im sorry that there appears to have been some confusion around what Halifax would do 
regarding the default recorded about this account. But with everything Ive detailed above Im 
satisfied that its offer to backdate the default to 22 May 2016 (when we have determined it 
should have started taking action regarding Mr Rs account) is fair. I say this because the 
bulk of this debt is made up of money that Mr R spent, and hes not been able to repay this 
debt despite repayment plans being agreed. So I think that the default is an accurate 
representation of Mr Rs financial position regarding this account.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr R, but Im satisfied that what Halifax 
has already offered to do is a fair resolution to his complaint.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) has offered to do to put things right is fair, and I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman