DRN-2267465
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that esure Insurance Limited (esure) has unfairly handled a claim 
they made under a home insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs P contacted esure to make a claim under their policy. Their 
fridge freezer had leaked causing damage to the kitchen. esure accepted the claim and sent 
an agent to their property to consider the damage and necessary repairs. They estimated 
the repair costs to be around £1,000 and said it would cash settle on this basis  issuing a 
cheque in October 2019 to this value. 
Mr and Mrs P felt this sum was too low, and told esure. It asked them to obtain a quote from 
a contractor of their choosing. Mr and Mrs P provided a quote from Company A in October 
2019 to the sum of £4,350. esure considered this and said it would like a detailed breakdown 
of the quote, and another quote in addition.
Mr and Mrs P said they found it difficult to obtain another, but by mid-December 2019 they 
had provided one from Company B to the value of £3,760. esure considered this quote also, 
and said both provided were too high. So esure appointed a contractor (Company C) to visit 
the home and provide a quote. This took place around June 2020 and their estimate was 
£4,429.20 plus VAT. 
As a result, esure increased its settlement offer to £4,055. It said this sum was between the 
two quotes Mr and Mrs P had provided.
Mr and Mrs P have brought their complaint to our service. They said esure has handled the 
claim badly and delays have caused them stress and inconvenience. And theyve asked for 
an apology and compensation from esure for whats happened. esure has disagreed and 
said there havent been any unreasonable delays.
One of our investigators considered whats happened and upheld the complaint. She was 
satisfied the sum of £4,055 esure had now cash settled the claim for would allow Mr and Mrs 
P to have their kitchen repaired. But she said it was clear that esures initial quote wasnt 
accurate, and this mistake had caused a delay to the claim. She also said esure couldve 
arranged Company C to attend Mr and Mrs Ps home earlier than they did. Overall, she said 
esure should award Mr and Mrs P £300 in compensation for the mistakes made.
esure disagreed, saying it had to chase Mr and Mrs P and their contractors for detail about 
the quotes provided. So it was Mr and Mrs Ps delay that impacted the claim. esure also said 
Company C hadnt been able to attend earlier than they did because of obligations to other 
ongoing work.
The investigator looked again, but said it was clear that esures initial settlement wouldnt 
have allowed Mr and Mrs P to begin or undertake the necessary works. And in turn, esures 
reluctance with the following quotes stemmed from the inaccurate value its initial agent had 
initially placed on the repair. esure said it didnt believe its initial agent was wrong, and that it 
couldve challenged the quotes further. But it said it agreed to the higher quote to draw a line 
under matters. esure also said the initial agent had many years of experience and it had 
been reasonable to rely on their expertise and advice.
As esure disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for similar reasons given by our investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Ps policy says esure is able to settle in this type of claim by either paying the 
cost of the works to be carried out, or by arranging for the works to be completed itself. In 
this case it chose to cash settle the claim. So Id expect its settlement to be to the value of 
the actual cost to Mr and Mrs P for arranging the works to be carried out. 
As outlined above, in this case we have four estimates for the value of the works. And its 
clear the estimates provided by Companies A, B and C were all consistently and 
considerably higher than esures initial quote. 
Firstly Ive asked myself whether esures settlement of £4,055 is fair. In line with the above 
terms, Im satisfied this sum allows Mr and Mrs P to instruct their own contractor to complete 
the works. So Im not going to ask esure to increase this.
Ive then thought about esures actions and decision to cash settle this claim. It has said the 
initial agent who gave a quote of around £1,000 was a surveyor with many years of 
experience. And this experience shouldnt be overlooked when compared to contractors with 
a vested interest in repair costs being higher. It also said a difference in quotes didnt mean 
the initial agents quote was wrong. And it has indicated it still believes the quotes were too 
high and it couldve chosen to challenge the scope of Company Cs repairs if it wished to. 
But it has said it decided against this to draw a line under matters.
While I understand it may consider its decision to pay £4,055 as a commercial one to resolve 
matters, I cant ignore three separate contractors have quoted the necessary works to be in 
the region of £3,760 and above. Nor have I seen any evidence or expert opinion as to why 
any of the quotes were excessive beyond being significantly different to the initial £1,000 
quote. So Im satisfied the initial quote wasnt reflective of the actual cost of works Mr and 
Mrs P wouldve needed to pay to have the works carried out  as it should have been under 
the policy terms. I consider this inaccuracy to be a mistake on esures part, and Ive gone on 
to think about the impact of this.
Looking at the correspondence between Mr and Mrs P and esure across the life of the claim, 
as well as its internal emails, esure hasnt disputed that the stark difference in quotes was a 
significant factor for its decision to not increase its settlement. I can understand this and I 
want to be clear that I dont think an insurer asking for more information about a quote or 
multiple quotes is inherently unreasonable. 
But in this case I think it was the initial, seemingly inaccurate, quote that led to esure 
requesting further evidence and quotes to the extent that it did. I say this as it seemingly took 
esures own contractor to quote a sum that was around five times the value of its initial quote 
before it agreed to increase its settlement. Ive taken on board esures comments about 
having to chase for information, but this hasnt changed my mind.In summary, Im satisfied esure failed to provide Mr and Mrs P with a fair cash settlement 
that was in line with its policy terms until late into the claim. And this delay in providing a fair 
cash settlement has caused frustration for Mr and Mrs P. In line with our investigators 
suggestion, Im directing esure to pay Mr and Mrs P £300 in compensation. Im also directing 
esure to send a written apology to Mr and Mrs P for the way it has handled this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding this complaint. esure Insurance Limited must:
Pay Mr and Mrs P £300 in compensation; and
Provide Mr and Mrs P with a written apology for its handling of this claim.
esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs P accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
Jack Baldry 
Ombudsman