DRN-4016410
The complaint
Miss M complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) gave her an unfair valuation for her 
car after it was declared a total loss.
What happened
In June 2022, Miss M made a claim on her motor insurance policy and her car was declared 
a total loss.
After initially offering a slightly smaller amount, esure valued Miss Ms car at £26,687 and
agreed to waive the policy excess. They said they reached this figure by considering the
values suggested by four motor trade guides and offering an amount that was slightly more
than the average. Miss M didnt think this was fair. She said her car had a large number of
optional extras, and she couldnt afford to replace it with the amount esure had offered her.
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint. He requested two bespoke
valuations from the same motor trade guide and then said esure should increase their
settlement offer to £28,937. Miss M accepted the investigators opinion, but esure didnt.
They said they'd already offered Miss M a fair value for her car, and they werent convinced
they should change their position due to the bespoke valuations.
Prior to reaching a provisional decision, I asked Miss M to provide the evidence she was 
relying on to support her belief esures valuation was unfair. In response, she shared a link 
to a website, which said there were no cars available that were similar to hers. She also 
explained that she hadnt kept any adverts from the time of the claim and acknowledged that 
recent adverts didnt support a higher valuation.
I also asked the motor trade guide that provided the bespoke valuations to explain the
reasons, their second valuation was significantly higher than the first. In response, they said
the second valuation was provided in error, and they therefore asked that it was disregarded.
I also obtained a further valuation from a different motor trade guide, and this suggested
£26,145 was a fair value for Miss Ms car.
On 3 March 2023, I issued a provisional decision and gave both sides the opportunity to 
provide any additional evidence. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this decision will come as a
disappointment to Miss M, but I dont intend on directing esure to increase their valuation
and Ill now explain why.
Miss Ms policy says esure will provide the market value for her car if it's declared a total
loss. And the policy defines market value as:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car
for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of
the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of similar age,
condition, and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on
research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not
be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. However, like most insurers our
service often finds the motor trade guides persuasive. This is because their valuations are
based on nationwide research and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss. The
guides also allow for the specifications of most cars to be taken into consideration including
any extras. This is particularly helpful, as factors such as the age and mileage of a car can
have a big impact on its value. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others,
we may think its reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the circumstances and on the
value of the vehicle.
Miss M has said esure valued her car unfairly as it had a large number of valuable optional
extras which havent been taken into consideration. These include a panoramic roof, heated
seats, and a rear view camera. I agree her car had a number of extras, however, I also note
that it was four years old at the month of loss. This is important because as with cars
generally, optional extras will depreciate over time and in older cars, it isnt unusual for them
to make no difference to a value of a car at all. For newer cars, the optional extras can
increase the resale value of a car, but this isnt always the case, sometimes they'll just make
the car more desirable to buy. And even where they do have an impact, I understand the
increase in value for the car is only likely to be a small fraction of the initial cost of those
extras when ordering the car as new.
Ive carefully considered the four valuations esure received from the motor trade guides.
Using the retail transacted figures, I can see they valued Miss Ms car as follows:
Guide one £24,950
Guide two £26,482
Guide three £26,710
Guide four £27,094
As mentioned above, the investigator requested a bespoke valuation, and this valued
Miss Ms car at £30,690. I appreciate esure thinks the bespoke valuation shouldnt have
been requested. I agree they arent necessary in every case, but when a car has a number
of optional extras, they can be helpful. So, Ive taken this valuation into consideration
alongside the others. However, Ive disregarded the second bespoke valuation as Ive been
told it was provided in error. As mentioned above, Ive also checked a further guide, and this
valued Miss Ms car at £26,145.
This means the motor trade guides suggest a fair value for Miss Ms car would fall between
£24,950 and £30,690. Im also satisfied none of the above values should reasonably be
treated as an outlier.
We usually expect insurers to provide a valuation which falls within the range of values
suggested by the motor trade guides. There is no obligation for them to offer the highest
amount, and this service doesnt have a preferred guide. I appreciate Miss M feels strongly
that esures valuation doesnt provide her with enough funds to replace her car, but she
hasnt shared any evidence which supports this. Ive also carried out my own research, and I
havent seen any adverts which suggest esures offer is unfair.
I appreciate Miss M feels I shouldnt consider adverts for cars that are currently on sale now.
However, Im only able to consider the evidence that is presented to me, and I havent
received any adverts from the month of loss. I also think it's unlikely the value of secondhand
cars have decreased significantly since the date of Miss Ms claim.In any event, I can confirm that the values provided by the motor trade guides were all based
on the correct month of loss, and specification for Miss Ms car. Im also satisfied that the
optional extras have been taken into consideration. So, by providing Miss M with a valuation,
that falls within the range of values suggested by the motor trade guides, Im satisfied esure
have acted fairly. This also means I currently see no grounds for upholding this complaint or
directing esure to do anything more.
esure accepted my decision and didnt wish to provide any comments. Miss M didnt think 
my conclusions were fair. In summary, she said esures valuation is unreasonable due to the 
impact of the optional extras and she shouldnt need to provide adverts to support her view. 
That said, she provided links to three adverts for cars that are similar to hers and currently 
on sale with varying amounts of optional extras. These are priced at £24,990, £27,500, and 
£27,750. So, she said these adverts support her position and the settlement should be 
increased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but my conclusions remain the same. I've 
carefully reviewed the adverts she has provided, and I appreciate they suggest the optional 
extras may impact the value of her car. However, I dont think this means esures valuation 
of £26,687 is unreasonable. I say this as the two most expensive cars in the adverts are 
priced at approximately £1,000 more than esures valuation. I appreciate this is an increase, 
but I also suspect these prices allow some room for negotiation. Im also mindful of the fact 
esures valuation was based on the correct month of loss and nationwide research via the 
motor trade guides. So, while I appreciate the reasons Miss M is unhappy, Im satisfied there 
arent enough grounds to say esures valuation was unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman