DRN-3565144
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with The Original Holloway Friendly Society Limiteds (HFS) decision to 
decline her claim. 
What happened
Miss H had income protection cover with HFS. She became unwell and unable to work 
owing to right-side shoulder pain in April 2021. Miss H worked as a delivery driver. She 
claimed on her insurance policy a few months later in July, but her claim was eventually 
declined. 
Miss H said she was treated unfairly because HFS asked for information that wasnt relevant 
to her claim. She explained the information itd requested was private and pertained to a 
time where she worked for a family member and not the job central to this claim. Miss H said 
shes suffered severe financial hardship and unnecessary stress because of the way shes 
been treated by HFS and its overall decision to decline her claim. Miss H made further 
arguments about the increased cost of her policy at renewal. Overall, Miss H would like her 
claim paid and compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
HFS said that it needed information to verify Miss Hs claim. It said that as part of its policy, it 
needed to see Miss Hs HMRC tax returns for the previous year so that it could verify the 
benefit amount payable. Miss H was unable to provide this information and so HFS asked for 
other evidence so it could see her earnings for the previous year. Because Miss H was 
unable to provide this information, HFS was unable to validate her claim and so it returned 
her premiums in January 2022. It also explained the premiums policy increased in January 
2022 because she opted for an escalating benefit policy, which means the cost of the policy 
increases each year. 
Our investigator didnt think HFS had done anything wrong. She said the information HFS 
had asked for was relevant and necessary to determine the amount indemnified. She also 
said that HFS went beyond expectation because it asked Miss H for other information to 
verify her income when she was unable to produce a tax return as defined by her policy. Our 
investigator concluded that without any way to formally verify her taxable earnings, and no 
evidence of a loss of income, HFS was unable to calculate any benefit due. 
Miss H disagreed. She said, in summary;
HFS treated her unfairly by asking too many, unnecessary questions when 
attempting to verify her claim;
That her policy was mis-sold;
HFS took too long to investigate her claim and 
HFS should pay her compensation for the hardship she endured throughout the life 
of the claim. 
And so, its now for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for this are similar to those already 
explained by our investigator. In summary, Im satisfied with the way HFS handled Miss Hs 
claim. I think it gave due consideration to all the available evidence and that it gave 
reasonable and clear support in its attempts to verify Miss Hs income. Before I explain why, 
I noted our investigator explained that the mis-sale element of this complaint will be 
considered separately. I wanted to say that I agree with that, because this was an advised 
sale through a separate business and therefore should be reviewed outside of this 
complaint. 
Miss H has made several arguments in relation to her claim in an attempt to explain why 
HFS has treated her unfairly. Ive read and understood all her submissions, but Im not going 
to list everything here as both sides already know the background to this complaint. Also, I 
think that by listing each argument made will confuse matters unnecessarily. This complaint 
isnt complicated, it simply boils down to whether Miss H is able to evidence a loss in 
earnings because of her illness. And from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think shes been 
able to do this. 
HFS asked for her tax returns for the previous year. I dont see any issue with this, not least 
because its a reasonable way to verify her income and its mentioned in the policy terms that 
HFS will need to see this evidence of earnings when assessing a claim;
If you are Self-employed: business accounts and/ or Inland Revenue tax 
computations/returns for the three years prior to Incapacity and /or other documents we 
consider necessary 
So I disagree with Miss Hs assertion that HFS was unreasonable by asking for this 
information given what I just explained. Miss H told HFS that she had no declarable income 
for the previous year, because her earnings were under the taxable threshold. However, she 
offered to provide information from January 2021  which was when her policy with HFS 
began. I think its helpful to highlight that whilst this may have been useful, those interim 
accounts wouldnt satisfy the policy criteria because it says that in order to assess her claim, 
itd need information prior to January 2021. 
Miss H said this would be a breach of general data protection regulation (GDPR) but Ive not 
seen any evidence that persuades me this would be the case. HFS, when told that Miss H 
was unable to provide this information, asked that she provide other evidence to verify her 
earnings prior to the start of the policy, which is in line with the terms, however she was 
unable to do that. Miss H explained that shed previously worked for a family member and 
was paid in hand for that work. 
HFS, like all insurers, must be able to verify a claim before it can accept liability. Having 
carefully considered everything here, I think HFS has taken reasonable and proportionate 
steps to do this. And so, whilst I appreciate the frustration Miss H experienced by being 
unable to provide suitable information about her earnings, I dont think thats HFSs fault. 
Further, I noted Miss Hs insurable income when she took the policy was in excess of 
£40,000 however, Miss H said the income for 2020 was considerably less than that as it was 
under the taxable threshold which is much lower than her declared income. I understand the arguments Miss H made about COVID-19 having a significant impact here but thats all the 
more reason for HFS to investigate her actual income to ensure she received the right 
amount of benefit payable by the policy. Miss H didnt satisfy the policy terms and so I think 
her claim was declined fairly. 
Miss H made more arguments about the mis-sale of the policy, which Ive not considered as 
part of this complaint for the reasons Ive already explained.
HFS said it would return the premiums Miss H paid as a result of being unable to provide 
details about her income. However, Miss H initially refused this in September 2021 saying 
shed rather keep the policy going whilst her complaint was being investigated. And so, her 
policy was kept in place. But this changed in January 2022 when HFS increased her 
premiums, in line with the escalating benefit policy she had. To be clear, I dont consider 
HFSs actions to be wrong here either. The premise of the policy is to increase the cost year 
on year as the policy holder ages, the risk profile increases and so the cost goes up. 
HFS gave a reasonable explanation about this and a detailed breakdown of the percentage 
increase. I was satisfied with its explanation and rationale for the increase. But I should also 
highlight that Miss H requested HFS return all the premiums shed paid for the policy 
following the planned increase and I note this has subsequently happened. And so, I think 
this now negates that argument that the cost of the policy was increased unfairly because, 
put simply, theres no longer a policy in place and Miss H received back all the money shed 
paid for it. Im satisfied this put her back in the position she wouldve been in had she not 
taken the policy. I also dont think any compensation is due here because Miss H was 
offered a refund of the premiums she paid in September 2021, but she refused, and so 
although there was a delay in returning the premiums, this was at Miss Hs request and 
therefore not any fault of HFS. 
I also dont consider the time it took HFS to investigate the complaint to be excessive or 
unnecessarily lengthy. Miss H raised her concerns at the beginning of July and received an 
answer and a final response by mid-August. I accept that communication continued between 
Miss H and HFS, but this was largely because Miss H was unhappy with the response she 
was given and other subsidiary arguments shed made. And so, I dont think HFS need do 
anything more in respect of this complaint.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman