DRN-4393525
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon, deducted tax from the 
withdrawal he asked them to make from his pension. He says that instead of drawing all of 
the funds that he wanted as tax-free cash, Aegon treated the instruction as an Uncrystallised 
Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS) withdrawal, meaning that part of the payment was 
subject to income tax. 
In addition, Mr B says thats now triggered the Money Purchase Annual Allowance (MPAA), 
restricting what he can pay into his pension in the future. He says that he now wants Aegon 
to reverse the transaction because their information was unclear. 
What happened
In August 2022, Mr B decided that he wanted to take the tax-free cash that he was entitled to 
from his Aegon pension. As Aegon have an online portal, Mr B signed into his pension 
account and completed what he thought were the relevant instructions to withdraw his 
available 25% tax-free cash allowance.
Shortly afterwards, Mr B discovered that, instead of receiving £12,000 tax-free, Aegon had 
debited income tax from part of the payment and sent those monies to HMRC. He also 
discovered that as a consequence of the withdrawal, the MPAA had been triggered, resulting 
in a cap being introduced on the amount that he could then pay into his pension in the future.
Unhappy, Mr B decided to formally complain to Aegon. In summary, he said that he didnt 
ever intend to withdraw his tax-free cash via the UFPLS route, and it was always his wish to 
have the full payment made tax-free. He went on to ask Aegon to reverse the transaction.
After reviewing Mr Bs complaint, Aegon concluded that they were satisfied that theyd done 
nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, that when Mr B completed the relevant screens 
on their website, he selected the chosen withdrawal method, and therefore they felt it was up 
to him to make sure that the route he selected was the right one for him. They went on to 
say that they werent prepared to reverse the transaction.
Mr B was unhappy with Aegons response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that it was always his intention to take just the tax-free cash and not 
invoke a tax charge. He said, had Aegon made it clearer to him that there would be tax to 
pay, he wouldnt have proceeded in the manner in which he did. He went on to explain that 
now the MPAA has been invoked, itll significantly impact his future retirement planning 
because hell be limited to investing just £4,000 p.a., which he says, will mean hell now lose 
out because he was planning on using his bonuses from work to top up his pension over the 
next 10 years.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Aegon 
had treated Mr B fairly and from what hed seen, Aegon had given him the right information 
before he decided to proceed with the withdrawal request.
Mr B, however, explained that he disagreed with our Investigators findings. Whilst being 
given the opportunity to provide further comment, Mr B didnt respond, so because he didnt 
agree with our Investigators view, the case has come to me to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says that hed never heard of the MPAA or an UFPLS withdrawal before, so when he 
saw the impact of these on his tax-free cash request, he contacted Aegon to try and have 
things reversed. Aegon, however, have said that they placed Mr B in an informed position 
beforehand and as such, dont believe that theyve done anything wrong  and I agree. So, 
whilst I appreciate thisll likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, Im not upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why below.
I think its important for me to explain here that Aegon arent Mr Bs financial adviser, so they 
arent responsible for giving him any financial advice. Their role is to simply hold and 
administer Mr Bs funds in the manner that hes set out to them. The decision on how to 
extract funds from the pension rests solely with Mr B. And, its Aegons responsibility to 
ensure that they follow any instructions that he gives to them in a timely and efficient 
manner. I also think its important to add here that, whilst Mr B does have a financial adviser, 
because theyre tied to a single product provider, they werent able to provide any advice to 
him on the Aegon plan or help facilitate the withdrawal. That meant Mr B had to make his 
own decisions or pay for an independent financial adviser to help him.
Whilst Mr B didnt have a financial adviser to guide him through the withdrawal process, I 
dont believe that he was going into this blindly. Aegon have provided screenshots of their 
online portal that Mr B completed to arrive at the UFPLS withdrawal that was made. Having 
looked at those closely, I think that enough information was in there to have enabled him to 
make an informed decision about the path that was right for him. 
When Mr B logged into Aegons portal to arrange the withdrawal, he was presented with five 
options: leave it all for now, take it as cash, set up flexible access drawdown, set up a fixed 
income for life and finally blend multiple choices. Mr B selected take it as cash. After each 
option, there was then a drop-down menu that provided a wider choice and more 
information. I can see why Mr B selected the take it as cash option, but he shouldve 
selected the set up flexible access drawdown option which wouldve then provided 
information on the tax-free cash route that he wanted. But, by selecting take it as cash, the 
portal then explained that he could take some or all of the pension as a taxable lump sum. I 
think the reference at that point to the fact that some of the withdrawal was taxable, 
shouldve alerted Mr B to the fact that this option would result in some of his monies being 
liable to income tax.
After selecting the take it as cash and ultimately the UFPLS option, Mr B was provided with 
a number of warnings by Aegon that he was then asked to sign to confirm that he had read 
and understood. Ive highlighted the two that I believe are relevant to his complaint:
I instruct you to pay the whole or part of my fund as requested under my Account, less 
income tax, to me as an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS). I also 
understand that depending on any other taxable income I am receiving I might be liable 
to pay further tax or may have to reclaim the tax.I am aware that receiving a UFPLS will mean that the Money Purchase Annual 
Allowance (MPAA) will apply to me, if not already, and that if money purchase pension 
savings are made by me, or on my behalf, which exceed the MPAA will be subject to an 
annual allowance tax charge.
Mr B signed the declaration electronically at 21:53 on 23 August 2022 and I think its clear 
from this statement that he signed, that the monies Aegon were planning to pay to him would 
be subject to income tax and wouldnt be paid tax-free.
In making his withdrawal choice, Aegon also provided Mr B with the regulators retirement 
risk warning questionnaire which he completed. Importantly, the questionnaire prompted him 
to check that he understood the tax position of his withdrawal request and highlighted that, 
by accessing his pension, the MPAA would apply if he wished to continue saving into his 
pension. It went on to explain that hed be limited to saving no more than £4,000 each year 
into his pension by taking the UFPLS withdrawal.
So, it seems to me that Mr B was placed in an informed position about the impact of his 
choices before he made the decision to proceed. Whilst I appreciate that pension 
terminology can be confusing to some, the consumer still has a responsibility to ensure that 
they read the information theyre signing and if theyre under any doubt about what theyre 
entering into, they should seek clarification. In addition to the brief summaries that appeared 
on Aegons website, there was also a link to a short video that provided an explanation of 
each option that he couldve viewed, had he wished to do so, if he were in any doubt. Given 
that Mr B wished to extract his monies tax-free, I think the references to tax being debited 
from the payment shouldve prompted him to seek clarification from Aegon before 
proceeding.
I also say that because, if Mr B was in any doubt about his selected route or how he wanted 
to achieve his goal, he couldve telephoned or emailed Aegon for help. Whilst they cant 
provide advice, they can provide factual information, but theyve confirmed that Mr B only 
reached out to them after the event, at which point, it was too late to guide him down his 
preferred path. This is particularly relevant because Mr B has explained that, whilst he did 
see all of the risk warnings above, he didnt really understand what they meant. So, had he 
contacted Aegon for more information, I dont doubt that they wouldve been happy to 
explain the terms to Mr B and ensure that his wishes were undertaken in the manner he 
originally intended. So, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not going to be instructing 
Aegon to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont believe Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon, have done anything wrong and as 
such, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman