DRN-3242112
The complaint
Miss B complains that when she made lump sum overpayments to reduce her mortgage 
interest that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to recalculate her interest correctly 
on multiple occasions. Mrs B would like to end the contract with Halifax without having to pay 
an early repayment charge (ERC). 
What happened
Miss B took out a mortgage with Halifax through a broker in February 2020 borrowing 
£822,000 and fees. The term was 31 years. Miss B took out a mortgage product with a fixed 
interest rate until 31 March 2025. An ERC would apply to any full or partial repayments of 
the loan but, as a concession, overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance could 
be made each calendar year. 
Miss B made overpayments in 2020 and had issues with Halifax about these. Miss B made 
an overpayment in May 2020 and asked for a recalculation of her payments, but this wasnt 
done. Miss B made an overpayment in November 2020 and asked for a recalculation to be 
done including that payment, but this wasnt done. Miss B also was unhappy with the layout 
of her annual statement and found it confusing. Halifax said that the overpayments were 
used to reduce the capital balance when received and Miss B hadnt suffered financially. But 
Halifax paid Miss B £150 for the errors it made.
At the end of June 2021 Miss B made three overpayments on 24, 25 and 28 June 2021. But 
she later discovered that the payments werent credited as a capital payment on the dates 
they were paid but all credited on 28 June 2021. Halifax responded on 14 July to say that it 
agreed with her complaint and wanted to put things right and rectify the account so that the 
payments were credited on the correct dates resulting in an interest adjustment of £1.71. It 
also paid Miss B £200 in compensation.
After Miss B raising the complaint with us, in late 2021 Miss B made a further overpayment 
and requested a recalculation of the contractual monthly payment, but this wasnt done. Miss 
B contacted Halifax who confirmed there had been an error and paid £200 compensation.
Our investigators view was that Halifax had responded appropriately to Miss Bs complaints. 
He felt that as the ERC had nothing to do with the errors in question that Halifax shouldnt be 
asked to forego the ERC. Miss B disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There seems to have been quite a few errors on this account by Halifax to do with either the 
crediting of the overpayments or the recalculation of the contractual monthly payment after 
the overpayments were made. Miss B says that these repetitive errors have meant that she 
has lost faith with Halifax and would like me to bring the contract to an end allowing her to 
move to a lender whom she has faith in. The problem with her moving to a new lender 
presently is that she would incur a substantial ERC for doing so and feels that this should be 
waived by Halifax.
The function of the ERC is to protect Halifax against the costs of a customer terminating a 
mortgage product early. Halifax provided the mortgage product with the fixed interest to Miss 
B and continues to provide the agreed interest rate product for the five years of the term of 
the mortgage product. In that sense there hasnt been a fundamental breach of the mortgage 
- such as an increase in the interest rate - but difficulties encountered in performing one part 
of it, to do with the operation of the overpayments concession. 
Unfortunately, lenders do not always provide their services as customers would expect and 
that is why there is a complaints procedure and if a lender has done something wrong, it 
should provide appropriate redress. My view is that when Miss B complained that things had 
gone wrong, Halifax responded to the complaint, provided appropriate redress and fixed the 
problem within a reasonable period. Miss B says that Halifax hasnt been penalised. But its 
not our role to penalise lenders but to ensure that if the lender makes an error that it pays 
fair compensation. Having looked at the type of error made and the annoyance that Miss B 
would have experienced, and the time taken to contact Halifax, my view is that Halifax has 
provided appropriate redress. I understand that Miss B is very disappointed with Halifax 
because of its repeated errors which must be very frustrating but Im not persuaded that 
there has been such a fundamental breach of contract that I should bring the contract to an 
end and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman