DRN-3276900
The complaint
Mr M complains that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) produced two 
conflicting statements showing different balances in his account. He said that LCCU had 
failed to help him. Mr M said that he receives benefits and this problem has made it difficult 
for him to manage his finances 
What happened
Mr M has a current account with LCCU. He said he is often unable to access his balance 
online. So he has to rely on printed his statements. But when he is able to access his online 
statements there is often a discrepancy between the balances on the same date. He said 
this makes it difficult to manage his finances. 
Mr M attempted to contact LCCU by phone and online. But it took some time to respond  
and it never properly addressed his concerns.
The investigator said the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr M was unable to 
manage his account because of what had happened. LCCU hadnt provided any evidence to 
show that it hadnt made a mistake. The evidence we did have showed that there was an 
ongoing discrepancy  and it appeared to show a financial loss. Therefore LCCU should pay 
Mr M £257.03 plus another £200 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
to him.
LCCU did not substantively respond. Mr C said he had experienced further problems with his 
account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M had a legitimate question about his account. He said that there was a discrepancy 
between the balances on his printed and online statements. And it appeared that around 
£250 was missing from his account.
This should have been a straightforward matter for LCCU to investigate and either provide 
evidence that there was no discrepancy or to put things right if one was discovered. But 
LCCU has not meaningfully engaged with either Mr M when he contacted it or us when we 
have requested information. This has made what should have been a straightforward matter 
very difficult for us to investigate.
Under our rules I can reach a decision on the basis of the evidence that has been supplied 
and take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested.
In this case, we only have the copy of statements provided by Mr M. They show that there is 
a discrepancy between his online and paper statements. Mr M has also given us an email 
where LCCU accepts that there is a discrepancy. We have no evidence from LCCU to show 
that the balances were correct and Mr M has not lost out.
Ive given this very careful thought. There is a clear difference and ongoing between the 
balances on the printed and online statements. That has consistently been £257.03 for the 
period we have evidence for. Mr M has been clear that this money is missing. And the only 
emails from LCCU accept there was an inconsistency. 
The investigator has sent two view letters to LCCU explaining her thoughts and that LCCU 
should pay Mr M the amount of the discrepancy. It has had ample time to respond if it didnt 
agree with what the investigator said or to provide evidence to show that there hasnt been 
an error.
I also note what Mr M has told us about his personal circumstances and his financial 
situation. This matter has made it difficult to manage his finances. And I can see that it has 
caused him a lot of unnecessary upset and inconvenience.
Overall, in the individual circumstances of this case, I agree with the investigator that it 
seems more likely than not that there has been a mistake here. The evidence we have 
supports that Mr M is £257.03 down because of that. So LCCU should refund that amount. It 
should also pay him £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused to 
him.
I was sorry to hear that Mr M has suffered ongoing issue. But I can only look at the complaint 
he referred to us  not any new matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that London Community Credit Union Limited should pay Mr M:
£257.03 to reflect the unexplained discrepancy on his account.
£200 for any distress and inconvenience this matter has caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman