DRN-3877885
The complaint
Mr H (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
SafetyNet Credit (SNC)) didnt complete enough affordability checks before providing him 
with the facility. 
What happened
Mr H approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in June 2016. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr H was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mr H was initially given a facility with a £250 credit limit in June 2016. His limit was increased 
on seven occasions, with the final increase taking the credit limit to £410 in October 2017.   
The statement of account provided by SNC in May 2022, shows that Mr H had repaid the 
facility in December 2020. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint and she upheld the complaint in full. She 
said, at the point the facility was approved, Mr H was repaying eight high-cost short term 
loan accounts and had recently received three sums from similar lenders into his account. In 
addition, the credit searches provided by SNC showed that Mr H had previously taken 47 
payday loan accounts and had defaulted on the account within the last year. She concluded 
the facility wasnt sustainable. 
Mr Hs representative didnt acknowledge or respond to the adjudicators assessment.  
SNC didnt agree with the outcome reached by the adjudicator in summary it said; 
Although Mr H had previously used payday loans, SNC said; when looking at the 
transactions on the account related to these around the time of initial lend and 
onwards, these concerns are alleviated.
The facility seemed affordable. 
Mr H stopped using payday loan accounts shortly after the facility was approved. 
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
SNC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could 
repay the facility in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that SNC was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay the facility  not just whether the facility was 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the facility being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
To start with, Mr H wasnt given a payday loan. Instead, he was provided with a credit facility 
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintained read-only access 
to Mr Hs bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumers finances and to carry 
out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr Hs expected repayment would be 5% of the amount owed plus any interest, fees 
or charges. But a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. Therefore, when 
Mr Hs facility was approved for £250 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr H would be in a 
position to make the repayment of £20, by carrying out a proportionate check  as detailed 
above. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Hs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for around 90 days preceding the facility being 
granted. It then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Hs income and what his expenditure 
was, after completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr H could afford the 
minimum repayment towards the facility.
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and there is some concerning information about 
Mr Hs use of payday loan accounts. SNC was on notice that hed repaid 47 such accounts. 
This is a significant number and does suggest that Mr H had had problems managing his 
money in the past. SNC was also on notice that there was at least one default being 
recorded on Mr Hs credit file. In this case, I dont think SNC could simply ignore the credit 
results, unless the bank transaction data showed something different. 
Having reviewed the bank transaction data in the 90 days leading up to the facility being 
granted, I agree with the adjudicator that based on what SNC saw it shouldnt have granted 
the facility.  
The facility was approved on 18 June 2016, and SNC wouldve been aware from the 
transaction data that within the six weeks before the facility being approved, Mr H had 
borrowed £810 from three different payday loan providers across four loans. £500 of the 
payday loans were advanced within the 18 days preceding the facility being approved. Of course, the amount borrowed was only the capital so the amount Mr H would need to repay 
would be significantly greater. 
In addition, in the month of June 2016, so within the two weeks before the facility had 
approved, Mr H had made payments to five different payday loan providers  across eight 
loan accounts at a total cost of £496. This is around 34% of his total income. 
In my view, the number of payday loan providers that are visible in the transaction statement 
is too high considering that he was spending in my view a significant sum each month 
repaying these loans and according to SNCs credit search had a history of taking such 
loans. Therefore, when the facility was approved, I think it wouldve been reasonable for 
SNC to conclude, that moving forward he wouldve likely still have had a need for such 
loans. And while the number of loans taken, from other payday lenders after the facility was 
approve did decrease, the fact is, that Mr H did still take them.  
And even though, after the facility was approved, it doesnt appear that there were too many 
new payday loans, this isnt enough to not uphold the complaint considering the affordability 
assessment has to be carried out at the time the facility was given. At this time, I dont think 
Mr H was in a position to take on any further credit. 
So SNC shouldnt have provided Mr H with the facility. 
Putting things right
Ive outlined below what SNC needs to do in order to put things right for Mr H. 
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from the start of 
the facility.
B) Treat all payments Mr H has made towards his account from inception as though 
they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr H wouldve been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this, then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Hs credit file 
about this facility. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint in full.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr H as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman