DRN-3632534
The complaint
Mr G complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined the 
claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had a car insurance policy with LV, and he made a claim when his car was stolen. He 
says he went to his sister in laws home to pick up a package, he parked the car in the 
street, and he was on the driveway when it was taken. LV declined his claim because the car 
was unlocked, and the ignition key was in the car at the time. 
Mr G doesnt think it was fair for LV to decline his claim. He thinks its decision was rushed 
and says it was insensitive to send the letter declining the claim around Christmas time.     
Mr G also says he was no more than three metres from the back of the car and the thieves 
pulled up their van just out of his view. But LV didnt change its mind.  
Mr G brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. After 
reviewing the CCTV footage provided, they didnt think it was unreasonable for LV to say the 
vehicle was left unattended, even if it was only for a short period of time. Our investigator 
didnt think Mr G was in close enough proximity to intervene or deter the thief. They also 
thought it wasnt unreasonable for LV to have declined the claim based on Mr Gs testimony. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators opinion and has asked for an ombudsmans decision for 
the following reasons: 
He says LVs decision was made instantly as the letter it sent was dated the same 
day as the incident. He says he was led to believe he could gather any other 
evidence to support his case, but he doesnt think there was ever any intention by LV 
to allow it. He says he was given misleading advice and thinks some compensation is 
in order. 
He says he had turned for one second to take a parcel when his sister in law saw the 
car moving and, as he looked back it was stolen.
Our investigator didnt change their opinion and so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons. I 
know this will be disappointing to Mr G, but Ill explain why. 
I understand this has been a very stressful and difficult time for Mr G. Id like to reassure him 
that I have considered all he has said, and I empathise with his position. However, I must put 
aside my feelings of empathy and consider this complaint impartially. 
The terms of the policy exclude loss or damage to the car if it has been left unlocked or the 
ignition device is left in, on or attached to the car. Mr G acknowledges he left the car 
unlocked and the key was left in the ignition when it was stolen. So, what I must consider is 
whether LV acted in a fair and reasonable manner in its application of the terms.
To do this, Ive thought about whether the car was left unattended. In the absence of clear-
cut evidence, Ive considered whether I think its likely Mr G was in a position to have 
prevented the theft or deter the thief, and I dont think he was. I understand Mr G says he 
turned away briefly to pick up the package, but the footage shows he was away from his car 
long enough for the thief to have been able to enter the car. He says it was his sister in law 
who alerted him as the car was being driven away. So, I think he had turned away long 
enough for this to happen without him noticing. 
The car is partially in the road, Mr G isnt visible in the footage so its difficult to know how 
close he was to it. However, when he reported the theft, he states he was waiting at the front 
door. He also says that by the time he got to the end of the drive the car was turning the 
corner. And the footage shows the car drive away and Mr G is not seen in that time. 
Considering this, the position of the car and what can be seen of the incident, on balance, 
Im not persuaded Mr G was close enough to have prevented or be a deterrent to the theft of 
his car. 
Ive also considered whether the keys being left in the car was material to the loss and I think 
it was. Mr G told the claims handler he didnt think he was followed, looking at the footage I 
think its likely the thieves noticed the car in the street and saw an opportunity to take it. Had 
the keys not been left in the car, I think its unlikely the car would have been stolen. So 
ultimately, I think LVs decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable. 
Claims handling
Mr G thinks LV rushed its decision regarding his claim. Firstly, I note the declinature letter is 
dated three days after the theft was reported. Ive listened to the conversation he had with 
the claims handler and Im satisfied they gave clear and not misleading information on the 
process. The handler says a decision would be made within a couple of days on whether the 
claim would be dealt with or not. I dont think the handler gave the impression Mr G would be 
contacted again before the decision was made. Given the account Mr G gave of the incident, 
I think its reasonable LV reached the decision it did.
LV said it made its decision the day after it was notified of the incident. When handling a 
potential claim, we would expect a business to act as quickly as possible and not delay 
things unnecessarily. Its unfortunate the letter arrived on Christmas Eve, but I dont think LV 
did anything wrong here. As I said, I find the claims handler Mr G spoke with made it clear 
the decision would be made in a matter of days which it did. 
Mr G later provided the CCTV footage of the incident, which Im satisfied LV reviewed, but it 
didnt change the outcome it reached. It said the footage was very similar to what Mr G had 
reported and I think what its said is fair. Overall, I find LV treated Mr G fairly and reasonably, 
as such I dont think it needs to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman