DRN-1706997
 
The complaint 
Mr Ms complaint is about Barclays Bank UK PLCs (Barclays), trading as Barclaycard, 
 refusal to uphold a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (section 75).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mr Ms driving license card had expired and the terms of his rental agreement required him 
to have a valid license. He wasnt able to demonstrate that and in those circumstances the 
rental terms and conditions didnt entitle him to receive a refund. So I dont think theres been 
a breach of contract.
I understand that Mr M was able to secure car hire from another rental company on the day 
but I cant say thats a reason to suggest the initial rental company had breached their 
contract with Mr M. So, as there wasnt a breach of contract, I dont think Barclays were unreasonable to reject 
Mr Ms section 75 claim and, as the business would have been able to successfully defend a 
chargeback, I dont think that could have succeeded either.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman