DRN-4007797
The complaint
Mr C has complained that he wasnt given the right information from ReAssure Limited 
(referred to from hereon as ReAssure) about what would happen to his yearly With-Profits 
bonus when he switched his personal pension in early 2021.
What happened
Mr C arranged a personal pension with Legal & General in the late 1980s, which was 
invested in a With-Profits fund. Annual bonuses were added on 1 January each year, based 
on the performance of the fund during the previous year.
In September 2020 Legal & General transferred some of their business to ReAssure, 
including Mr Cs personal pension plan. Under ReAssures administration of the With-Profits 
Fund, new timelines were set regarding the annual bonus, which  from that point forward  
would be declared in late February each year. In 2021 this date was set for 27 February.
On 1 February 2021, Mr C submitted an application to ReAssure to switch his existing plan 
to a Retirement Account policy, in order to facilitate a withdrawal of his tax-free cash lump 
sum entitlement (equating to a quarter of the plan value) and a further taxable withdrawal, as 
he had not yet used his personal allowance during the 2020/21 tax year.
Mr C contacted ReAssure by telephone on 10 February 2021 to say he had not received the 
annual bonus, despite having previously received yearly bonuses every January. He also 
queried whether the bonus would still be paid once his plan was switched to the Retirement 
Account. The call notes indicate that ReAssure said they would get back to Mr C to confirm.
ReAssure wrote to Mr C on 12 February 2021, as follows: In late February each year we 
announce the annual bonus rates for the year before. Please note if you switch out the With-
Profit fund you will not accrue any future bonuses. However, your remaining bonus will be 
applied. The retirement account team will be in touch on the process shortly.
Mr C has said he called again on 16 February 2021 to enquire about his plan and bonus. On 
the same day, ReAssure sent him a letter which included the following extract: In regard to 
you[r] query [about] receiving a bonus from Legal and General each year, this will be lost on 
the transfer into the Retirement Account. When transferring into the Retirement Account a 
new fund investment is chosen and there is no with profits option so the bonus will no longer 
occur. Please call us to confirm if you are still happy to continue with the Retirement Account 
or not. 
On 24 February 2021, Mr C telephoned ReAssure, asking for an update regarding the switch 
of his pension plan. He went on to say he had been told the yearly With-Profits bonus would 
be due soon and he had previously been told it would be backdated and added to his plan 
value, even though he was switching. 
Towards the end of the call, the ReAssure call handler was just about to go and check some 
notes regarding the progress of the switch when Mr C raised one final question: The last 
question was the bonus payments. Usually, I get paid the bonus in January, but they are 
saying the bonus isnt paid, like, til February/March, then backdated to January. So, I said, 
well is my bonus going to be in? Because Im converting over to a flexi account...
The call handler first responded to this question by saying, I dont know if itll still be 
payable, before going on to clarify as follows: So, it is something which is still payable to 
you whether its been converted to drawdown or not. So, obviously if it's backdated then you 
should still have it. Let me just have a look and see - ok thats fine, right. 
Following this confirmation, the call handler then returned to the earlier question about the 
pension switch progress, saying What Im gonna do is have a look through the back-office 
notes and just get an update for you, is it ok if I pop you on a really brief hold? 
It appears that later in this call Mr C confirmed he wanted to proceed with the pensions 
switch. We know this because  although the call recording failed from this point onwards 
and the audio record is therefore not available - there are telephone notes made by 
ReAssure the same day which confirm Mr Cs agreement to proceed. ReAssure then 
effected the switch based on 24 February 2023 plan values.
Mr C has told us that the following day he logged onto his online portal on 25 February 2021, 
and that he saw his plan value had increased by around £7,000. This point is not in dispute 
as ReAssure has since sent us actuarial calculations relating to Mr Cs account on that day, 
which confirm the figure that Mr C saw at that time.
Mr C assumed that this increase in his plan value was explained by the annual bonus having 
now been finalised and paid. As such, he concluded that the annual bonus was around 
£7000. I understand this figure was broadly in keeping with the sort of sums he had seen in 
previous years bonuses, such that it wouldnt have seemed an implausible figure to Mr C or 
have prompted him to question it further. 
However, this was not the case. In fact, the annual bonus payment had not yet been 
confirmed, as this was not due to happen until 27 February, two days later. Instead, the 
increase value of around £7000 was associated with the terminal payment, which was due 
to Mr C on leaving the plan. The day before, the terminal payment was approximately 
£40,000, but new terminal payment rates happened to be applied on 25 February 2021 
which meant the terminal payment associated with Mr Cs account grew to approximately 
£47,000 on that day.
The interim annual bonus figure on Mr C account did not substantially differ between 24 and 
25 February, was potentially still subject to change before being finalised on 27 February. 
However, if Mr C switched prior to this date (as he did, on 24 February), he would receive 
only the interim figure relevant on the date of the switch. It doesnt appear that any of this 
was properly explained to Mr C. 
This means when Mr C viewed his account on 25 February, the picture was somewhat 
misleading as the switch was still in progress. Once the switch was completed a few days 
later, it became apparent that the sum that had been switched was based on the 24 
February value  i.e., prior to the terminal bonus rates increase and the associated figure of 
around £7000 increased plan value. As this was the sum that Mr C had assumed came from 
the final annual bonus payment, from his perspective it appeared as though his annual 
bonus had disappeared. 
Mr C raised a complaint. ReAssure responded saying that Mr C had confirmed he wanted to 
proceed with the switch on 24 February 2021 and that the correct policy value for that date 
had been applied.Mr C then referred his complaint to this Service. Our investigator reviewed the complaint and 
upheld it, saying Mr C had not been correctly informed and, had he been, he would have 
most likely waited for the bonus to be added. The investigator therefore asked ReAssure to 
presume the annual bonus was notionally added back to the plan 24 February 2021 and to 
pay Mr C the difference between the actual transfer value and the notional value, with a 
notional deduction of tax and 8% interest per year added until the date of settlement. 
Following further correspondence between this service and ReAssure, the investigators 
opinion was accepted, and the matter was considered resolved.
After a delay of five months, ReAssure contacted this Service asking to discuss the 
resolution to the complaint. In summary, they said the final yearly bonus which would have 
been paid amounted to £2,995.53. This was a lesser amount than the amount Mr C had 
already received based on the interim figures, which totalled £3,461.03. Therefore, 
ReAssure argued, Mr C had not suffered any financial loss.
A second investigator reviewed the complaint and clarified that the issue wasnt whether the 
valuation of 24 February 2021 was correct, but whether Mr C had been given sufficient 
information prior to his decision to confirm he wished to proceed with the pension switch on 
that date.
ReAssure said that the option to put the pension switch on hold until the annual bonus was 
paid was not available, as they had all the information they required to proceed with the 
transaction on 24 February 2021. However, our investigator pointed out that Mr Cs consent 
was also required for ReAssure to proceed with the pensions switch and  had Mr Cs 
withheld this until 27 February  the switch wouldnt have gone ahead before this date. 
Furthermore, the investigator said Mr C only agreed to proceed on the basis that he was 
wrongly told the annual bonus would be backdated. Had the correct position been made 
clear to him, our investigator found that on balance Mr C wouldve most likely waited until 27 
February 2021 before confirming he wished to proceed with the pension switch, as he 
couldve reasonably expected this to have allowed sufficient time to arrange the relevant 
transactions before the end of the tax year.
ReAssure did not accept our investigators view. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs objective was to access his pension benefits, by withdrawing a quarter of his pension 
fund tax free and making a further taxable withdrawal, thus utilising his income tax personal 
allowance and drawings above that limit being taxed at the basic rate. This meant the 
required transactions were time sensitive and had to be completed before 5 April 2021.
However, Mr C was also very much aware of the annual bonus he had been paid in previous 
years, and keen to ensure he still benefitted from 2021 bonus despite his plans to switch to a 
retirement account. So, it seems reasonable to assume that Mr C wouldve taken whatever 
steps necessary to secure this bonus, providing he still felt confident of meeting his deadline 
of completing the switch transaction before the end of the tax year.
Ive looked at everything Mr C was told about annual bonus payments, both at the time 
ReAssure took over the policy and around the time the pension switch took place. Having 
considered the various communications between Mr C and ReAssure, Im not persuaded that ReAssure gave Mr C sufficient information to make an informed decision about the 
timing of the switch. 
ReAssure has argued that it doesnt matter, as  in the end  the final annual bonus figure 
that wouldve been paid on 27 February had Mr C waited to switch was less than the interim 
figure used to calculate Mr Cs plan value on 24 February. So, whether or not the information 
he was given was lacking, ReAssure has said Mr C hasnt lost out as a result.
However, had Mr C waited until the annual bonus was paid on 27 February, he wouldve 
been better off overall. This is because  although the annual bonus payment wasnt 
increased in the way he mightve hoped  the terminal payment was. Had Mr C delayed the 
switch until this date, he wouldve benefitted from this increase in the terminal payment, even 
if his motivation for delaying was based on a different set of hopes in relation to the annual 
bonus.
The question I therefore need to answer is, had Mr C been given the right information, would 
events have most likely unfolded differently? And, if they had, would Mr C now be in a better 
financial position? So, Ive thought about what Mr C wouldve been likely to do if hed been 
told that he could either proceed with the switch on 24 February on the basis of the interim 
annual bonus payment, or he could wait 3 days and proceed with the switch with the 
confirmed annual bonus payment. 
At the time, no one couldve confirmed to Mr C whether the final bonus payment would be 
more, less, or the same as the interim value. However, Mr Cs experience prior to that point 
was that the value of his plan increased by several thousand pounds each time the annual 
bonus payment was finalised in previous years, hence why Mr C was expecting a similar 
increase in the value of his plan in early 2021. Even if it had been clearly explained to him 
that a similar increase in early 2021 was not guaranteed, I think that  based on Mr Cs 
previous experience - he wouldve still considered it a strong possibility.
Looking at the figures Mr C has supplied from early 2020, I can see that the value of his plan 
does appear to have risen fairly sharply by several thousand pounds at around the time 
around the time that I understand the annual bonus was paid. Mr C has labelled this 
increase Bonus added £3,513.76 on the document he has supplied, and it is clear that he 
believes that this is the explanation for the increase. 
Its not possible for me to say for certain whether Mr Cs explanation is the correct, or 
whether the increase was actually due to an adjustment in the terminal bonus rates (as 
happened a year later in early 2021), or some other factor. Nor do I think ReAssure 
necessarily had a responsibility to clarify this to Mr C, as it relates to calculations and 
payments made before their involvement.
However, what I can say is that  regardless of what it would or wouldnt have been possible 
to explain to Mr C regarding previous plan value increases  if ReAssure had at least 
explained to Mr C fact that switching prior to 27 February would mean he would only receive 
the interim bonus, then I think Mr C wouldve wanted to wait for the final annual bonus 
confirmation date to see if any such increase happened again. He was clearly aware of and 
very interested in the annual bonus payment, as indicated by his repeated queries on the 
matter. Given the relatively short window of only three days he wouldve had to wait, and 
given that this three-day delay is very unlikely to have caused him to miss his deadline for 
completing the switch, I find it probable that Mr C wouldve chosen to wait. Had he done so, I 
agree with ReAssure that it wouldnt have resulted in his receiving a higher annual bonus. 
But the knock-on effect wouldve been that Mr C wouldve benefitted from the changes to the 
terminal bonus rates. For clarity, I am not suggesting that the call handler ought to have alerted Mr C to the 
upcoming changes to the terminal bonus rates  indeed, it is by no means certain that the 
call handler wouldve been aware of this information. I am saying only that Mr C shouldve 
been made aware of the correct position as regards the interim nature of the annual bonus, 
rather than being given insufficient information and being left to draw the incorrect 
conclusion that the final annual bonus would be backdated. And that, had this happened, Mr 
C wouldve most likely waited before confirming he wished to proceed with the switch.
I accept this wouldve slightly reduced the timeframe available in which to process the switch 
from the existing policy to the new one, but I think it is reasonable to expect that such a 
transaction could still have been concluded within the remaining window of nearly five weeks 
(which is the time that would have still been available even if Mr C deferred his decision until 
27 February 2021). And I think Mr C is likely to have drawn the same conclusion when 
deciding whether or not to wait a further three days before proceeding.
I note ReAssure has said they would not put a pension switch on hold after all the 
requirements to begin the process had been met. However, as expressly stated in their letter 
of 16 February 2021, Mr Cs consent to proceed was one of those requirements. As stated 
above, if given the correct information, I dont think Mr C wouldve provided this consent until 
27 February 2021. So, it is not a question of putting the process on hold. Instead, 
ReAssure wouldnt have been in a position to initiate the process until 27 February 2021. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given the right information.
I take the view that Mr C would have invested in the same funds he held in the existing 
personal pension and replacement retirement account.
Mr Cs confirmation to proceed with the pension switch would have taken place on Saturday 
27 February 2021 and taken effect from 1 March 2021.
He would have retained his instruction to withdraw a quarter of his pension as tax-free cash 
and draw a taxable income of £43,000.
My understanding is Mr C has made further subsequent withdrawals which have now 
exhausted his pension plan. The final withdrawal would likely have been larger as the 
notional plan value of 1 March 2021 is greater than the actual value of 24 February 2021 
which was transferred.
ReAssure should calculate the value of the tax-free cash Mr C would have received and 
assuming the taxable payment was paid into Mr Cs bank account by 1 April 2021, what the 
final encashment figure would have been (as at the same date of his final withdrawal).
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr C's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
What must ReAssure do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, ReAssure must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
ReAssure should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.ReAssure should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ReAssure is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr C £400 for upset caused by the raised expectations of having a back-dated 
yearly bonus.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ReAssure deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. ReAssure should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Personal 
Pension
 &
Retirement 
AccountNo longer in 
forceWith-Profits 
and
Investment 
Pathway
127 February 
2021Date ceased 
to be held8% simple 
per year on 
any loss 
from the end 
date to the 
date of 
settlement
 
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
The tax-free cash lump sum that shouldve been paid to Mr C should be presumed to be 
25% of plan value at the time it shouldve been withdrawn. The taxable withdrawals that Mr 
C made later from the Retirement Account should be deducted from the fair value calculation 
at the point they were actually paid, so they cease to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, Ill accept if ReAssure totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to 
determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
To assess the past loss associated with the tax-free cash lump sum that was paid to Mr C, 
ReAssure should calculate:A) Total of the notional tax-free cash sum which Mr C should have received, one day 
later than the actual payment, with interest added at 8% per year simple from the 
date it was due to the date of settlement
B) Total of the actual tax-free cash sum Mr C has received from the Retirement 
Account, with interest added at 8% per year simple from the date it was paid to the 
date of settlement
Tax-free cash Past Loss = A  B, which should be paid to Mr C in cash.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above. ReAssure Limited should also provide details of its calculation 
to Mr C in a clear, simple format
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Ellie Clare
Ombudsman
