DRN-3319533
The complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund the debit card payments he made to 
FMTrader, who he now thinks were a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. But in summary, Mr A was persuaded to invest with a company called FMTrader. 
Throughout 2016, he paid them a total of £7,250 from his TSB account. In 2020, he reported 
to TSB that FMTrader were a scam. It said it was too late for a chargeback claim and it 
wouldnt refund him.
When Mr A referred the matter to our service, our investigator partly upheld the complaint 
and recommended that TSB should refund Mr As last payment of £6,000. Mr A accepted 
this, but TSB didnt. I then issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold this complaint. I asked for any further comments or evidence by 17 February 2022. 
As Ive not received anything further by the deadline set, Im now proceeding with my 
determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has submitted anything further in response to my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to alter my provisional findings, and so I make them final. Im not upholding this 
complaint for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Mr A was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that, for the 
purposes of the Payments Services Regulations 2009 (in force at the time), he 
authorised these payments. So, the starting position is that hes liable for them.
However, taking into account relevant rules, codes and best practice, Id expect TSB 
to have systems in place to monitor for indications on fraud. In some circumstances, 
when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional checks before 
processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it 
might be fair to hold TSB liable.
Mr A has provided a New Zealand regulatory warning about FMTrader that predates 
some of these payments. But I think it would be expecting too much of TSB to play 
amateur detective and carry out extensive checks on an individual merchant its 
customer chooses to pay. We do expect banks to keep track of the UK financial 
service regulators (FCAs) scam warning list, and of warnings published by Investor 
Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), 
the international body that brings together the world's securities regulators. Neither 
had published any warnings about FMTrader at the time of these payments. So I 
wouldnt have expected TSB to stop the payments simply based on the destination.
I agree with our investigator that neither the first payment of £250, made in February 
2016, nor the second payment of £1,000 in September 2016, would reasonably have 
alerted TSB that Mr A might be at risk from fraud. These payments appear in keeping 
with his general account use. But unlike our investigator, I also dont think the third 
paymentof £6,000, made the day after the £1,000 paymentwas unusual enough 
to warrant further checks.
Ive carefully considered Mr As account history in the run up to the disputed 
payments. In the six months or so prior, there was a history of genuine, higher value 
payments being made in and out of the account. There were several payments 
around or exceeding £10,000. I think its reasonable that the overall level of turnover, 
and the size of these earlier payments, affected what TSB would have seen as 
uncharacteristic, worrying account activity for Mr A. So I dont hold it at fault for acting 
on the authorised payment instructions without completing further checks.
By the time Mr A raised this dispute, it was too late for TSB to raise a chargeback 
claim. This is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes between 
merchants and customers. Under the scheme rules relevant to Mr As dispute, he 
had 120 days from the transaction to submit a chargeback claim. But TSB wasnt 
aware of the payment dispute until 2020. So I dont think it could have done more to 
help recover the funds.
Mr A also queried if he was due a refund under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model. But this wasnt in force at the time, nor is TSB a signatory, nor does it cover 
card payments. So this isnt a relevant consideration.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr A. But I can only uphold this complaint if TSBs
errors caused or contributed to his loss  which I havent found to be the case. Ultimately, its
the cruel actions of the scammers that caused his loss, not any failings by TSB.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman