DRN-1295916
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly rejected a claim he made on his touring 
caravan insurance policy when his caravan was stolen.
What happened
Mr B told Allianz the caravan was taken from his drive overnight in January 2019. He said 
hed swapped his previous caravan in 2018 for a smaller one owned by a Mr S, as it was a 
better fit for Mr Bs driveway. Mr S was a stranger Mr B met at the caravan sales / spray 
shop where he worked.  
Allianz appointed external investigators to look into the claim and Mr B was advised that 
Allianz had concerns about it. After the investigations were completed, Allianz told Mr B it 
was going to decline the claim, as there was no proof that he owned the caravan. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint. He thought Allianz had acted 
reasonably. He said the policy required Mr B to provide any details Allianz needed, such as 
proof of purchase (or ownership). In this case, Mr B didnt have a receipt or any documents 
relating to the way hed acquired the caravan. And it wasnt registered with the caravan 
registration and identification scheme (CRiS). The investigator said Allianzs investigators 
had found no evidence of the theft, either. 
Mr B said it wasnt a legal requirement to register a caravan with CRiS and that Allianz 
hadnt asked for that - or for proof of ownership - when he insured it. He said hed provided a 
note that proved he and Mr S exchanged caravans in February 2018. He said hed also 
provided a statement from the owner of the caravan sales / spray shop (Mr C) who said he 
saw the exchange take place. And Mr B said hed sent Allianz photos that he said showed 
him standing next to the caravan. At this point, Mr B also told us that Allianz said he owed it 
more for the premium after the claim was declined. He didnt see why he should pay it.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy requires proof of ownership if a claim is made for the value of a caravan. It isnt 
unusual for insurers to have such a requirement, and I think it was reasonable for Allianz to 
make the request. Mr B had accepted the policys terms and conditions. I dont think insurers 
can be expected to highlight every possible eventuality.  
It isnt compulsory to register a caravan with CRiS and I dont think it was for Allianz to 
advise Mr B to do so when he insured it. CRiS is a long-established organisation that Mr B 
was aware of. He says he didnt register any of his caravans with it, as he changed them 
often. I think its likely that most caravan owners will have evidence that a caravan belongs 
to them - and Mr B may have had that in relation to other caravans. But I think not registering 
a swapped caravan was risky without solid proof of ownership. In this case, had Mr B 
registered the new caravan, it may have made a difference to the outcome of the claim. 
As money wasnt exchanged for the new caravan, Mr B couldnt produce a receipt.  Allianz 
was willing to accept evidence that he acquired the caravan in the way he said he did, by 
swapping with Mr S. I think that was reasonable. But Allianz didnt think the handwritten note 
Mr B produced, outlining the swap, was enough. Mr B said he had no way to contact Mr S to 
confirm the exchange. And he said any documents that might have had Mr Ss details on 
them were stolen with the caravan. 
I think it was reasonable for Allianz not to be satisfied with the note Mr B provided. And it 
didnt find the unsigned, handwritten note from Mr C to be persuasive either. It seems Mr C 
knows Mr B well. An investigator interviewed Mr C and told Allianz he didnt think he was a 
reliable witness. I think it was reasonable for Allianz to accept that opinion. 
Mr B wanted Allianz to pay him for the caravan, which was insured for around £26,000, so I 
think it was for him to show that he had a valid claim. I think it was reasonable for Allianz to 
consider that the notes he provided were insufficient. And I can see why it didnt think that 
photos of him standing next to a caravan assisted him with the claim either. The photos dont 
show he owned the caravan he was claiming for.  
Allianz had other concerns about the theft. Mr B said the caravan was secured, so it would 
have taken time and effort to release it. Theres usually some noise or debris when a 
caravans stolen in these circumstances. He also had security lighting and CCTV coverage 
of his driveway. The camera was in place, but Mr B said it was switched off at the time. 
Investigators found that his neighbours didnt hear or see anything amiss on the night of the 
theft, and there was no physical sign of the caravan having been taken. The investigator 
tried to get confirmation that the caravan was stored on the drive, but he couldnt do so. And 
a potential witness wouldnt confirm where Mr Bs previous caravan was stored. That was 
relevant, as hed said a change in storage led to the previous caravan being swapped. I 
dont think any of this is conclusive, but it didnt help Mr B to show that he had a valid claim.
I think Allianz ensured that a thorough investigation of the claim was carried out before 
deciding to decline it. And I think it was reasonable for it to rely on the evidence from the 
external investigators. As I dont think it acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Bs complaint.
In terms of Allianzs request for money from Mr B after the claim was rejected, it seems that 
Allianz hasnt had the chance to consider the issue and respond to Mr Bs concerns. He may 
be satisfied with its response, so I think Mr B needs to raise the issue with Allianz before 
deciding whether he thinks a further complaint is merited.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman