DRN-3591574
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about the way Devereaux Montague LLP (DM) has managed her 
personal pension and investments.
What happened
Mrs K has a personal pension and an ISA with a provider Ill refer to as F.
DM is Mrs Ks financial adviser and it provides her with ongoing advice on her pension and 
ISA in return for an annual fee. This service includes providing Mrs K with annual reviews, 
where her investments are rebalanced in accordance with her objectives and risk appetite. 
In 2021 Mrs K discovered that her pension and ISA had not been rebalanced since the 
review that had been carried out in September 2018. Mrs K complained about this and also 
complained about the recommendations DM had made in the October 2021 review, which 
involved changing from F to a new provider, A. Mr K made an identical complaint which is 
the subject of a separate complaint with our Service.
DM told Mrs K it had shared its recommendations following the reviews in October 2019 and 
October 2020 with her by email. It said the emails had made it clear that Mrs K needed to 
respond in order for the changes to be made and as DM hadnt received a response, the 
changes were not implemented. But in any event, it assured Mrs K that she had not suffered 
a financial loss because her pension and ISA had experienced higher growth as a result of 
not being rebalanced in 2019 or 2020. DM explained the reasons for the recommended 
change of provider but said Mrs K didnt have to accept this.
Mrs K referred her complaint to our Service. She said she had agreed to DMs 
recommendations in the meetings so had assumed that the changes would be implemented. 
She also thought DM shouldve chased her for a response or drawn it to her attention in the 
2020 review. She said DM had admitted that its process of asking for confirmation had also 
caused issues with other clients. Mrs K also questioned whether she had suffered a loss. 
Mrs K remained unhappy with the recommendations made in 2021, which would also involve 
moving to quarterly reviews at an increased cost. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied DM had made it clear to Mrs K 
that she needed to respond to the emails in order for the recommendations to be 
implemented. And that no action would be taken if she didnt respond. Nevertheless he 
thought DM had demonstrated that she had not suffered a loss. The investigator thought 
DMs recommendations in 2021 were reasonable. As Mrs K disagreed, the complaint was 
referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Mrs K suggests that DM asking her to confirm the changes to her pension and ISA 
investments before they were made was a departure from the previous process. But Ive 
seen evidence that she was asked to respond to the email sent to her following the 
September 2018 review, which set out the proposed changes. Mrs K responded to this, so 
the changes went ahead. And Im satisfied the same process was employed following the 
reviews in October 2019 and 2020. Ive seen copies of the emails sent to her, which clearly 
set out that Mrs K needed to respond to the email in order for the changes to take place. And 
the emails also clearly explained that if no response was received by the deadline, DM 
would assume that Mrs K did not wish to proceed. This statement was in bold so as to draw 
attention to it.
I appreciate Mrs K feels that she had already agreed to DMs recommendations in the 
meetings. But I would expect DM to provide her with its recommendations in writing, along 
with any other literature to ensure that she had all the necessary information to make an 
informed decision. And in any event, the emails made it clear that Mrs K was required to 
respond in order for the recommendations to be implemented. I understand why Mrs K feels 
DM shouldve chased her for a response, but I dont think it was unreasonable that it didnt 
do so. DM made it clear that if no response was received it would assume that Mrs K didnt 
wish to proceed. And I dont think the process it employed here was unfair or unreasonable 
given the number of clients DM would likely be dealing with at any one time.
I can understand why Mrs K was surprised to hear in 2021 that her pension and ISA 
investments hadnt been rebalanced since 2018. She says she wouldve expected this to 
come up before then, given the amount of contact she had with DM in between. But I think 
DM was entitled to believe that Mrs K had chosen not to proceed with the recommendations 
at the time. 
DM told Mrs K that in any event she hadnt suffered a loss as a result of her portfolios not 
being rebalanced in 2019 or 2020. Mrs K wants reassurance that this is the case; she says 
that our Service should carry out our own exercise to ensure she hasnt been 
disadvantaged. But as Ive explained above, I dont think DM has done anything wrong here. 
So, even if Mrs K wouldve been better off if her pension and ISA investments had been 
rebalanced in 2019 and 2020, I wouldnt be asking DM to compensate her for this. So, 
I wont be checking the calculations.
Mrs K has said DM admitted that other clients had been affected by its process of requiring 
email confirmation and that this demonstrates the process isnt fit for purpose. I accept DM 
has said it started to recommend that clients instead use a Discretionary Fund Manager 
(DFM), which would mean that email confirmation isnt required. But that is because using a 
DFM is an entirely different service proposition to the ongoing advice DM would provide. A 
DFM is a separate company charging separate fees that provides active investment 
management  the DFM makes the investment decisions, so little input is required from 
clients. In any event, I dont think that DM recommending Mrs K (or other clients) use a DFM 
demonstrates that the process of asking for email confirmation before implementing its own 
investment recommendations isnt fit for purpose.  
Mrs K remains unhappy with the recommendations DM made following the October 2021 
review. She doesnt think that switching her pension and ISA from F to A was a suitable 
recommendation and she didnt think it was appropriate to recommend a move to quarterly 
reviews as this would increase costs.
I appreciate that Mrs K had concerns with the recommendations made, but I dont think they 
were unreasonable or unsuitable.DM recommended that Mrs K switch her pension and ISA to A because the platform charge 
was lower, and the adviser considered it to be user-friendly and it offered her the possibility 
of having a flexi-ISA, which had tax advantages. Although Mrs Ks own research didnt 
identify A as a better alternative to F, I dont think it was an unsuitable recommendation. 
Furthermore, Mrs K was free to reject the recommendation and I understand she opted to 
stay with F.
DM recommended that Mrs K use a DFM, and as a result shed receive quarterly updates 
from DM. DM recommended this because of the size of her funds, because it thought Mrs K 
could benefit from the expertise the DFM provided and because of the active management, 
which would require less input from her. Again, I dont think this was an unreasonable 
recommendation, despite the increased costs  the aim was to produce better performance 
with less administration and input from Mrs K. So, I think it wouldve met her needs. Again, 
Mrs K was free to turn this down if she didnt want to pay the extra costs for this service.
Overall, I dont think DM treated Mrs K unfairly or gave her unsuitable recommendations. So, 
Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman