DRN-4223400
The complaint
Mr P complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund £22,000 he says he lost 
to an investment scam. 
Mr P is represented in this complaint, but as its his complaint, Ill refer mostly to him. 
What happened
Mr P received a cold call from a third party in 2019, he was persuaded to pay £22,000, to a 
company Ill call W, for an investment. 
Mr P was then contacted in 2022 by administrators to say W had gone into liquidation. In 
2023, Mr P felt hed been the victim of a scam, so complained to Halifax. He felt they 
shouldve done more to protect him. 
Halifax responded to the complaint to say they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They 
said Mr P should have done more checks in relation to W, including checking whether they 
were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or covered by the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Halifax also said, though they do monitor accounts 
for unusual activity, they do expect customers to sometimes make one-off large transactions 
 so they didnt think Mr Ps payment would have caused concern. 
Mr P wasnt happy with Halifaxs response so he referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered Mr Ps complaint. She said, in summary, although she thought 
Halifax shouldve intervened and spoken to Mr P about this payment  she didnt think this 
wouldve stopped Mr P making the payment or that Halifax should have refused to make it. 
This was because at the time, W appeared to be a legitimate company and Mr P had been 
advised by an IFA he trusted. 
Mr P didnt accept the Investigators findings, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax say they do not believe W was operating a scam. Mr P says he believes this to be 
the case because the money that he invested was not used for the purposes described in 
the memorandum. Its not immediately clear whether W was likely operating a scam at the 
time Mr P made his investment, as Ive received little evidence to suggest this. But in any 
event, even if I were to accept that he had been scammed, I still dont think Halifax can fairly 
be held liable for his losses, for reasons which Ill go on to explain.
Theres no dispute Mr P authorised the payment he made to W. The payment was made by 
Mr P using the legitimate security credentials provided by Halifax.  
Generally, banks should follow their customers instructions in relation to legitimate 
payments and, as Ive already explained, Mr P did instruct the bank to make this payment. 
However, banks are required in some circumstances to take additional steps or make further 
checks before processing a payment to help protect customers from potential fraud, scams 
or financial harm. So, proceeding on the assumption that W might have been operating a 
scam at the time, Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more in the 
circumstances of this particular payment to have prevented Mr Ps loss.
Mr Ps payment to W of £22,000 was made in January 2019. As it was made prior to 28 May 
2019, the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code does not apply to Mr Ps 
transaction. Ive reviewed Mr Ps bank statements for the six months before this payment. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that the £22,000 payment was substantially larger than the 
usual payments Mr P had made in the previous six months, so was out of character in that 
respect. The payment to W was also to a new payee - someone Mr P hadnt paid before. So, 
considering the size of the payment and Mr Ps usual account activity, I think Halifax should 
have intervened and spoken to Mr P about his payment to W. 
If Halifax had contacted Mr P about this payment, I wouldve expected them to have asked 
questions about the nature of the payment. I think Mr P would likely have explained he was 
sending the payment to W for investment purposes. At the time, W was registered with 
Companies House and Im not aware of any information Halifax could or should have been 
aware of, at the time of the payment, that ought to have alerted them that Mr P was being 
scammed. There also seems little available in the public domain at the time that Mr P could 
have found if the bank had told him to carry out further research. So I think its unlikely a 
conversation about this payment would have led Mr P to realise he was being scammed, 
and therefore wouldnt have stopped him from going ahead with it, or given Halifax such 
cause for concern that they should have refused to make it. Therefore, even if W was 
operating a scam at the time, I dont think Halifaxs failure to intervene can be considered as 
the proximate cause for his loss. 
Ive considered whether Halifax couldve done more to recover the funds for Mr P. But since 
Mr P made his payment in 2019 and didnt contact Halifax to complain about it until 2023 
and by the time he did so, W was in liquidation  I dont think any attempt to recover the 
money would likely have been successful. 
I am sorry that Mr P has lost such a significant amount in these circumstances but, I dont 
consider it would be fair or reasonable to find Halifax is responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman