DRN-3445064
The complaint
Mr T complains about a number of issues concerning his account with HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC).
What happened
Mr T has an account with HSBC. Around Summer 2021, he raised a number of complaints 
including but not limited to:
1. When trying to activate his card by phone, the agent was unprofessional. He also 
had to verify his identity on more than one occasion;
2. He had issues using his card and he was told it had been blocked and/or restricted;
3. They had recorded adverse information on his credit file despite being in a Covid-19 
payment deferral;
4. They hadnt told him his payment deferral had ended which meant he made a 
payment late and adverse information was recorded on his credit file. They provided 
insufficient notice of reducing his credit limit.
HSBC investigated the above concerns. In summary they said:
1. The agent acted professionally but they would pay £25 compensation for the 
inconvenience;
2. He was incorrectly told restrictions had been placed on his card. They agreed to pay 
£10 compensation;
3. They will update his credit file to remove the adverse information and it would take up 
to six weeks to do so. They would pay £100 compensation;
4. They had sent emails stating when the payment deferral had ended but as a gesture 
of goodwill they will remove the adverse information from the credit file. They 
provided notice of the credit limit decrease in line with their terms. They agreed to 
pay £50 for the time Mr T spent on the phone and £125 compensation.
In total, HSBC paid £310 in relation to the above complaint points.
Unhappy with their response, Mr T referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. He considered the crux of Mr Ts complaint 
concerned the credit file (point 3) and the compensation was fair. He said there was 
insufficient evidence the adverse information recorded on the credit file resulted in declined 
applications for credit. Mr T disagreed and maintained his position. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find HSBC have done enough to put things right.  Ill explain why. 
Similar to the investigator, I consider the key complaint issue is the information HSBC 
recorded on Mr Ts credit file so I will focus on that. 
Financial businesses like HSBC are required to report accurate and fair information to credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) about how an individual is managing their account. As a result of 
the Covid-19 pandemic, the financial regulators (The Financial Conduct Authority) issued 
guidance about financial businesses applying payment deferrals to those negatively 
impacted by the pandemic. As part of that guidance, it said where a payment deferral is 
agreed, it shouldnt negatively impact an individuals credit file. In this case that didnt 
happen. By HSBCs own admission, they accept they shouldnt have recorded adverse 
information while Mr T had a payment deferral in place. That isnt in dispute. Having 
accepted their error, whats left for me to decide is whether theyve done enough to put 
things right and I believe they have. 
As no adverse information shouldve been recorded, this should be removed which is what 
HSBC agreed to do. I believe this was a fair resolution. Neither party has indicated this didnt 
happen so in the absence of any evidence contrary to the same, I assume it was corrected 
as advised. 
HSBC has also told our service that despite Mr T failing to make the minimum payment on 
time following the end of the payment deferral, theyve given him the benefit of the doubt and 
removed adverse information from his credit file in relation to that payment. 
Mr T says as a result of HSBCs actions, he was unable to obtain a mortgage in principle. To 
award such compensation I must be satisfied that he was unable to acquire the same as a 
direct result of HSBCs error. In this case, that would mean I would need to believe had it not 
been for HSBC recording adverse information on Mr Ts credit file while a payment deferral 
was in place, he wouldve been able to obtain a mortgage in principle. However theres 
insufficient evidence for me to reasonably say thats what happened here. 
While I accept such adverse information may have impacted Mr Ts credit score, I cant say 
with any certainty this was the only or principal reason why one wasnt agreed. While an 
individuals credit score will undoubtedly be a consideration, there are many other factors 
that are taken into account. Moreover, I must bear in mind a mortgage in principle is not an 
actual application for credit (a mortgage). It would appear Mr T was at the start of the 
process as opposed to being at the end where for example, he had secured a property and a 
mortgage offer was in place. On that basis, I dont consider there to a financial loss that 
warrants compensation. 
Nevertheless, I recognise having such information incorrectly recorded on his credit file 
wouldve caused Mr T to worry and he had to bring it to HSBCs attention to get it corrected. 
Given the circumstances, Im satisfied HSBCs payment of £100 compensation is reasonable 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
Other
As mentioned above, there are a number of complaint points Mr T has raised. In this 
decision I havent commented on each one individually but I can assure both parties Ive reviewed their submissions. Having done so, I consider many of them are service related 
issues. Some where HSBC had made an error such as incorrectly telling him restrictions had 
been placed on his card. But on the other hand, there are some where I find they acted fairly 
such as giving  notice to reduce Mr Ts credit limit in line with their terms. In any event, in 
relation to these complaint points, HSBC has paid £210 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused and for Mr Ts call costs given the time hes spent on the phone to them. I find 
this amount of compensation is higher than I would generally award for such issues so Im 
satisfied HSBC has done enough to put things right. I wont be asking them to pay anymore 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman