DRN-4119528
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was misadvised by Skipton Building Society when he remortgaged. 
He took out a tracker mortgage, but said rates had now risen, and he thought he should 
have been advised to take out a fixed rate instead.
What happened
Mr C said following an appointment with Skiptons mortgage advisor, he took out a tracker 
mortgage. He said interest rates went up almost immediately, and had continued to rise 
since. Mr C said the increasing cost of his mortgage, plus the cost of living changes, meant 
he was experiencing financial hardship. He thought he should have been warned against 
this sort of mortgage by Skiptons advisor. 
Mr C wanted Skipton to put him on the fixed interest rate mortgage it could have offered him 
at the time he had this mortgage interview.
Skipton didnt agree that it had misadvised Mr C. It said its mortgage advisor had asked Mr 
C questions about his property and his priorities. Hed explained he planned to do some 
sizeable home improvements, and once those were done, in about a years time, he was 
thinking of selling the property. 
Skipton said its advisor had made Mr C aware of its fixed rate products, and had explained 
that these offered security against future interest rate increases, but would mean Mr C would 
be tied into the product for a set amount of time. He would have to pay charges if he wanted 
to redeem the mortgage early.
Skipton didnt think it had done anything wrong, and it wouldnt backdate any changes to Mr 
Cs mortgage for him. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that shed listened to 
the relevant call, and the mortgage advisor had explained the possible increases in monthly 
payments associated with the tracker rate. He also made Mr C aware of the fixed rate 
products available. She felt that that the advice given was suitable to Mr Cs requirements at 
the time of the call, and that he had been presented with all the available options.
After the meeting, Skipton sent Mr C a suitability document which set out the way tracker 
rates are applied to a mortgage account. Mr C then accepted the offer. 
Our investigator said Mr C felt Skiptons advisor should have made him aware that interest 
rates were set to increase, but our investigator said that interest rates change in line with 
market conditions, so Skipton cant provide accurate advice on this.
Our investigator said Mr C had accepted Skiptons offer, and it was legally binding. She 
didnt think Skipton had to make a previous fixed interest rate mortgage product available to 
Mr C now. 
Mr C didnt agree. He didnt feel that hed been given advice on the phone, he said that the 
mortgage advisor just agreed with him, and he said the industry as a whole was aware that 
interest rates were set to increase. Mr C wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I have listened to the call Mr C had with Skiptons mortgage advisor. Early in that discussion, 
the advisor asked a very open question about what Mr C wanted, and whether he was 
looking at any other changes to the mortgage. Mr C said then that he was looking to get rid 
of the property. He was looking to sell. He then set out more details of his plans for the 
property, he wanted to take on some home improvements that he felt would increase the 
value of the property. The advisor asked about a timescale for work, and Mr C said this 
would take 8 months to a year. Then the idea was to sell. 
I can also hear that the advisor explained to Mr C how a fixed rate mortgage would work, 
that this would give him security, and allow him to budget, but he wouldnt benefit if rates did 
drop. And if he decided to sell during the fixed rate period, he would have to pay a 
percentage charge to Skipton to redeem the mortgage. They discussed a shorter fixed term, 
if Mr C felt he might want to sell fairly soon. But Mr C was quite focussed on getting the 
lowest rate he could secure at that time, and he opted for a tracker rate. 
I dont think the advisor failed to explain to Mr C the drawbacks of the mortgage type he was 
opting for. It appears that Mr C thinks the advisor would have been confident that a number 
of mortgage interest rate rises were coming, and so should have warned him in advance, 
about the rate rises which have since occurred. But I dont agree. Like our investigator, I 
dont think Skipton can be certain about future interest rate rises, in the way Mr C has 
suggested. So I dont think its the advisors responsibility to tell Mr C what will happen to 
interest rates in future, nor do I think hes necessarily able to do that. 
I also note that if Mr C had taken a fixed interest rate mortgage, then decided to sell during 
this fixed interest rate period, he would be faced with paying an Early Repayment Charge, 
usually based on a percentage of borrowing. So its not at all clear to me that a fixed rate 
was a better choice for Mr C, at the time he made his decision.
I know that Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman