DRN-3435307
The complaint
Mr C complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd avoided his car insurance policy
(treated it like it never existed), refused to pay his claim and is trying to recover the costs its
paid on a third party claim.
What happened
Mr C took out a car insurance policy with Accredited Insurance through a broker by phone in
January 2020 to start on 11 February 2020. Mr C added a named driver Mr S to the policy.
He said the car would be used by both drivers for social, domestic and pleasure purposes 
excluding commuting.
Mr C renewed the policy in February 2021 and no other details were changed.
In April 2021 Accredited Europe was notified of an incident with another car while Mr C was
driving.
While investigating the claim, Accredited Europe said Mr C had answered the question it
asked about Mr Ss occupation and use of the car incorrectly. Mr C said Mr S was
unemployed  but he was a delivery driver for a food delivery business since 2019 and he
used the car to drive to and from work.
Accredited Europe considered this to be a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which
entitled it to avoid the policy, decline his claim because of this and keep the premium Mr C
had already paid. Accredited Europe said it would look to recover the costs of any third party
claim from Mr C.
Mr C had also failed to disclose a motor conviction. But this wasnt the reason why
Accredited Europe avoided the policy.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be upheld. He
thought that Mr Cs misrepresentation had been careless and not deliberate or reckless. And
as Accredited Europe would have offered cover to Mr C with the motoring conviction at a
higher premium  and he was involved in the incident  he thought Accredited Europe
should reinstate the policy without the named driver Mr S on revised terms or remove the
avoidance marker and deal with the claim on a proportionate level in line with the premium
Mr C had paid.
Accredited Europe didnt agree. It said regardless of why Mr S used the car, his occupation
as a delivery driver is something it wouldnt have offered cover for and its provided its
underwriting criteria to support its decision. It said when Mr C bought the policy he declared
that the car would be used by him and the named driver for social, domestic and pleasure
use only. It said the mileage declared was much lower than the actual mileage.
Accredited Europe said that while it would have been able to provide a policy for Mr C, this
isnt what Mr C was looking for as its clear Mr S used the car.
It said that although it would have provided cover for Mr C and with the knowledge of the
motor conviction, it believes the misrepresentation to have been deliberate/reckless. It says
Mr C provided incorrect information to multiple questions about the usage, mileage,
occupation (for Mr S) and his motor conviction history. It says the fact that Mr S is Mr Cs
lodger makes it extremely unlikely that he was unaware of Mr Ss driving occupation and that
he was using the car to go to and from work.
Accredited Europe wanted an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 March 2022. I intended not to uphold the complaint as I 
thought Accredited Europe had reasonably avoided Mr Cs policy for reckless 
misrepresentation. 
Accredited Europe accepted my provisional decision. Mr C didnt agree. In addition to the 
reasons hes already given, he says he acted in good faith and believes he acted carelessly. 
Mr C says if it had occurred to him to provide the correct information to Accredited Europe, 
he doesnt believe it would have considered Mr C too high a risk to offer insurance. He says 
as Mr S wasnt involved in the accident, he would like a compromise for both parties to be 
considered. 
As both parties have replied, the case has been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Cs representations following my provisional decision. I realise Mr C will 
be very disappointed  but having done so, my final decision remains along the same lines 
as my provisional decision. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Accredited Europe thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when he said Mr Ss occupation was unemployed. Mr S has provided a
copy of his employment contract which shows he started working as a delivery driver in
September 2019. So this was four months before Mr C bought the policy in January 2020, to
start on 11 February 2020.
Ive listened to the sales call and Ive looked at the Statement of Fact (SOF) dated 20
January 2020 which was sent to Mr C following the call. In bold the statement reads:
You should read this notice and all of your policy documentation carefully and show
it to anyone insured to drive the vehicle covered under the policy.This Statement of Fact is a record of the information which you gave to your
insurance broker on which your insurance policy is based. Any inaccuracies or
omissions may result in an increased premium, claims not being paid in full or your
insurance may not be valid and claims will not be paid. If you are in any doubt about
the nature of the information which we requested or about the accuracy of the
information recorded on this notice, please contact your insurance broker
immediately.
Mr C declared Mr Ss occupation as unemployed  due to disability. And the use for the car
by both drivers was declared as being for social, domestic and pleasure use  excluding
commuting.
The SOF read:
Have you or any person who will drive the car been convicted of any offences
(including fixed penalties and driving licence endorsements) in connection with a
motor vehicle or police enquiry in the past five years, or is any prosecution pending?
Mr C answered no to this question for all drivers. But it transpired that Mr C had a speeding
conviction from 16 January 2020 and received three penalty points on his licence.
Accredited Europe has provided underwriting evidence to show it wouldnt have offered a
policy if it knew about Mr Ss occupation as a delivery driver. It says it would have charged
Mr C a higher premium if had known the correct history about his motoring convictions.
Mr C said that he didnt declare the change in occupation as he understood Mr Ss employer
provided insurance cover while he was working for them. Accredited Europe says this
doesnt make a difference as 
to whether it would have provided cover.
Mr C said he actually had two speeding convictions, but had attended a speed awareness
course and believed this had negated the conviction for both speeding offences.
From the information provided, Im satisfied Mr Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
I think its possible that Mr C may not have been aware of one of two speeding motoring
convictions as one was dated 16 January 2020 when he applied for the policy on 20 January
2020. And  I think his explanation that the speed awareness course he attended was
something he believed negated the consequences of both convictions is plausible. So while I
think Mr C didnt take reasonable care here, I think this misrepresentation was careless.
Where the misrepresentation is deemed to be careless, in line with CIDRA, an insurer
should offer a policy on the remaining terms if it would have offered a policy. Our Investigator
thought that  as Accredited Europe had shown it would have offered Mr C a policy in his
name only, it should reinstate the policy this way.
However, where a misrepresentation is deemed to be deliberate or reckless, even if an
insurer could offer a policy, CIDRA allows an insurer not to do so in these circumstances.
Accredited Europe has said Mr Cs misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless because Mr S
was his lodger and was using the car to go to and from work regularly. So it doesnt believe
its likely that Mr C was unaware of this when he bought the policy.
Ive carefully considered the timeline of events and Ive also looked at the signed statementsprovided by Mr C and Mr S when they were interviewed twice by an Investigator appointed
by Accredited Europe in May 2021. Mr C had changed the car under the policy just before
he had an accident in April 2021. The request for both parties to be interviewed was
prompted by a call between Accredited Europe, Mr C and Mr S about the claim. In this call -
which Ive listened to - Mr S said that he was the main driver of the car, that hed spent a lot
of money on the car, he used it and he needed it for work. Mr S also asked for advice on
how to change the ownership of the car from Mr C to him.
There were a number of inconsistencies in the statements Mr C and Mr S provided to the
Investigator when interviewed. Key comments from Mr Cs final statement were as follows:
With regard to my previous car, (make of car inserted here), I previously said that
(named driver ND inserted here) used it two or three times a week. Asked again
today how many days a week (ND) used my (car), I would say four or five times a
week.
I consider this to be in the same nature. I mean 2,3,4 or five is the same sort of idea.
(ND) only had it for the evenings. (ND) never used it during the day.
I would say he used it maybe four evenings a week, maybe.
In the last six months that I had the (car) I would say that I used it more than (ND) but
for smaller journeys. I used it for shopping every day in my home town for example. I
sometimes went to (name of town) or (name of town which is about a 40 to 50 mile
round trip. I did this about once a fortnight.
My understanding of (ND)s use of my car was that he used it to go to work. I dont
know if he used it at work as I never asked him. He never mentioned that he used it
at work.
He works out of town and he could not get a bus or train so he took the car.
I know that he works at (employer name  food delivery business) but I never asked
what he did and so I dont know what he does at work.
I have today been told that when (ND) was interviewed he advised that he was the
main user.
I suppose thats a question of perception. In my perception I drove it most of the time,
whereas he perceives that he drove it most of the time. I suppose we cant both be
right so somewhere between the two is probably correct.
I know that he works for (food delivery business name) and I know what that involves
but I never followed it up, otherwise I would have been more careful about saying the
mileage and that he was doing it for his job but I never thought to mention it.
I didnt really know that he was using it for work. He never lied about it. I didnt really
think that it mattered at any time given that he was insured to drive the car.
I didnt know that he was using the car at work. If I had been asked then I would have
said maybe. It didnt matter to me then and it doesnt matter to me now.
I renewed the insurance. I did it on the phone via (broker name inserted here). I
cant remember the name of the company that I am insured with.
When asked of any change of usage I would say no and the same when I was asked
about mileage.
(ND) was unemployed before he started working for (employer). I never informed my
insurance company when I renewed my policy that ND was employed. I didn't think it
was relevant but I now know that it is relevant.
I have never informed an insurance company during the lifetime of a policy about
any changes. I suppose I am negligent or I didn't think it mattered. I was paying a
very large premium, I was paying about £1,600 a year for myself and (ND) and Ithought that far exceeded the value of the car.
Based on the statements Mr C provided, and from listening to the call from January 2020, I
think Accredited Europes view that the misrepresentation in relation to Mr Ss occupation
and use of the car was reckless. I say this because I think that Mr C  having shared the car
on a very regular basis with his lodger Mr S before he applied for the policy  was
reasonably aware that the facts he represented about Mr Ss occupation and use of the car
were untrue or misleading  but did not care whether it was relevant to the insurer when
answering the questions and therefore in breach of his duty to provide accurate information
to the best of his knowledge.
From the timeline, the change to Mr Ss employment didnt occur after Mr C bought the
policy as he bought it four months after Mr S started working in September 2019. So when
Mr C applied for the policy in January 2020, Mr S wasnt unemployed. This shows that the
misrepresentation was from the outset of the policy with Accredited Europe in February
2020.
As Im satisfied Mr Cs misrepresentation should be treated as reckless, Ive looked at the
actions Accredited Europe can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Accredited Europe can do the following:
 avoid the policy and keep the premiums
 If theres a claim it doesnt have to pay this as effectively the policy never
existed and;
 it may also look to recover any costs its paid to a third party on any claim
after the misrepresentation.
In light of the actions Accredited Europe can take in line with CIDRA and the policy, Im
satisfied it was entitled to avoid Mr Cs policy. And as this means that  in effect  his policy
never existed, Accredited Europe does not have to deal with Mr Cs claim and can look to
recover the costs of a third party claim from him. 
I understand Mr C believes the decision is unfair and will have a financial impact on him. But 
as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing 
Accredited Europe to rely on it to avoid Mr Cs policy produces a fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint. I think Accredited Europe has treated Mr C fairly and as it would 
any other customer in the same circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman