DRN-4488797
The complaint
The estates of Mr and Mrs B complain St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) 
gave unsuitable advice and failed to give suitable advice to Mr and Mrs B. They say the 
result was the estates suffered income tax and inheritance tax they wouldnt otherwise have 
suffered and in particular due to investments SJP advised them to make into offshore and 
onshore investment bonds. They also complain of investment loss suffered when those 
investment bonds were automatically cashed-in on death rather that continuing to run.
Background
The complaint is brought by executors of the estates. I set out the complaint background in 
my provisional decision of 26 October 2023 in the following terms:
Mrs B passed away in September 2018 and income tax of around £55,000 became due 
on her investments. Mr B passed away in 2020, too soon for gifts made since 
September 2018 to receive inheritance tax relief under rules that reduce that tax liability 
three years after the gift and remove it after seven. Mr Bs estate suffered inheritance tax 
(IHT) of around £260,000 of which roughly half was attributable to the bonds. Also 
investments were cashed in on his death when markets had fallen and would rise in 
future.
Mr Bs estate also suffered income tax of around £60,000, The income tax on the bonds 
couldve been lower had the calculation date not been just before the end of the tax 
year. At that point Mr B had received a full years income from all his other income 
sources. His rents and pensions made full use of his income tax annual allowances and 
basic rate tax band. Income tax was suffered on the chargeable gain on the bonds at the 
higher or additional rate. In contrast, the same situation earlier in the tax year wouldve 
meant some income tax on gains on the bonds couldve been covered by Mr Bs tax 
allowances or basic rate tax band. That said, from the large sums invested and the large 
gains involved (relative to available reliefs), the gains wouldve been liable to at least 
basic rate tax regardless and possibly more.
Contradictory information has been given about Mr Bs tax status but from what Ive 
seen I expect he was a higher rate taxpayer in 1994 when the investments started and 
remained so or close to it throughout. Ive been told that Mrs B was a basic rate taxpayer 
and that at some point before 2018 she became a non-taxpayer.
The executors complain in broad terms that over the course of a 30-year advisory 
relationship, SJP had sufficient time and opportunity to recommend Mr and Mrs B 
measures to avoid or significantly reduce the inheritance tax and income tax liabilities 
that arose  and also avoid investments being cashed in at that time. They say SJP 
recommended complex products that carried these avoidable risks. They say investment 
funds like unit trusts are simpler and without these drawbacks.
In addition to these broader concerns, the executors have raised particular concerns 
about some transactions. One is that advice to invest in offshore bonds in 1994 was 
unsuitable because onshore bonds had more favourable tax treatment from an income 
tax point of view. A chargeable gain on an onshore bond that falls within the basic rate 
tax band suffers no income tax - the tax already paid within the onshore fund is deemed 
to satisfy that liability. This is not so for an offshore bond. Also the executors suggest the 
20-year period for tax deferred withdrawals was insufficient and made a bond unsuitable 
given the ages of the investors in 1994. Also the failure to include other, younger, lives 
assured on the bonds meant the investments would be cashed in upon second death 
risking investment losses.
The executors also suggest the offshore bonds shouldve been revisited when an 
onshore bond was advised in 1998. They also suggest that in 2012, when SJP 
recommended a discounted gift trust for inheritance tax purposes (about which there is 
no complaint), existing arrangements ought to have been revisited to save on future 
income tax or inheritance tax. They say advice to top-up offshore bonds in 2014 wasnt 
suitable as onshore bonds were more favourably taxed at that point. They also say SJP 
again failed to carry out inheritance tax planning at that point and also for the period 
2014 up to 2019 when the complaint began. 
The contention is that existing arrangements ought to have been changed at some point 
to save on future income tax and inheritance tax liabilities. For example, that when 
Mrs B became a non-taxpayer or taxed at a lower rate than Mr B, this could have been 
used as a chance to restructure things to save on future income tax.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought SJPs offer to 
cover legal costs and cover tax arising from withdrawals made on the bonds in error - 
and to make a goodwill payment of £750 for inconvenience  was fair and more than we 
could award. The executors didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision explained why, from what Id seen so far, I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint. I mentioned an offer SJP had made that covered certain other matters related to 
the complaint but that Id not discussed as part of the complaint - because those issues did 
not appear to be in dispute when the matter came to us. But I was unable identify grounds to 
award compensation for the matters I had considered as part of this complaint.
I said Id reconsider my provisional findings in light of any further points the executors or SJP 
had to offer. Neither the executors nor SJP have offered any further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having had nothing new in reply to my provisional decision, Ive arrived 
at the conclusions I reached in that decision for the same reasons. Ive set these out below. 
SJP recorded the 1994 bond investments main purpose as being retirement planning. The 
idea was to take regular income from the bonds to fund spending in retirement. There was 
an option, not selected, to say the primary purpose was IHT planning.
In listing reasons why the 1994 bonds replaced existing policies, SJPs list included ability to 
facilitate inheritance tax strategies in some cases and, in all cases, it mentioned using a will 
trust. A will trust had an inheritance tax use in allowing a nil-rate band to be made used if this 
wouldnt otherwise have been fully used to pass property to someone other than a spouse.
The inheritance tax nil-rate band in 1994 was £150,000. This was the sum invested in bonds for Mr B and for Mrs B. This points to the inheritance tax nil-rate band being a consideration. 
But a trust also had an income tax use at the time, as at that time there was no income tax 
on bonds if surrendered in the year after the death of the settlor of a trust. This tax treatment 
changed in 1997 for chargeable events after April 1998. In any event this tax treatment 
wouldn't have prevented tax being deducted from the investment funds in the meantime for 
an onshore bond. But an offshore bond would likely be largely tax-free.
So there were good reasons and tax benefits to investing in an offshore bond at that time  
and these were greater than for an onshore bond. Also even if Mr and Mrs Bs ages made it 
likely that they would outlive the 20-year tax deferred period, I cant agree a 20-year tax 
deferred period wasnt of benefit or made SJPs advice to invest in the bonds unsuitable.
Offshore bonds typically incur higher charges than onshore bonds and 1997 changes to the 
taxation of life funds reduced but didnt remove the tax benefits compared to onshore funds. 
The result is that offshore funds would typically need to run for longer periods in order for the 
tax benefits to make up for higher charges. From 1994 and for ten years after that, the 
investment bonds taken out were expected to continue to run for the long term. So offshore 
bonds had a chance to outperform an onshore one.
The onshore bond investment in 1998 was made after the April 1998 tax change mentioned 
above  so the clear advantage an offshore bond had over an onshore one within the trust 
arrangements Ive noted above, no longer applied. But the tax avoided within the offshore 
fund still provided the benefit of returns that rolled up free of tax. With an onshore bond, the 
proceeds would be free of basic rate tax, but this was not a tax break - rather it reflected tax 
already paid on returns within the onshore life fund. So the basic rate tax payable on the 
offshore bond proceeds needs to be considered in this context. I dont consider switching the 
offshore bond to an onshore one wouldve been justified at this point. In saying this I bear in 
mind the additional investment costs that wouldve arisen from cashing in an existing 
investment and reinvesting the proceeds into a new one.
The executors say Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have wanted their estates to suffer any large tax 
bills for inheritance or income tax  and I dont doubt that this is the case all other things 
being equal. They say avoiding inheritance tax was a consistent concern and priority of 
Mr and Mrs B. I agree but only to a certain extent.
It seems to me inheritance tax was considered and referred to in the advice given when 
investments were made, as it ought to have been given the potential for a liability of that kind 
to arise on the estate. But those references dont make me think it was always the main 
purpose of those investments. When it comes to the bonds the executors are complaining 
about, the advice given and the investment decisions made were, from what Ive seen, not 
for the purpose of or mainly directed at reducing or managing a potential inheritance tax 
liability or income tax arising on their estates. The investments had other and overriding 
objectives  being, broadly, to generate income from investments, avoid the deduction of tax 
from that income and to secure that income by growing the underlying investments. The 
income may have been used in part for gifts.
I note that what is needed if inheritance tax is to be avoided is, generally and broadly, a 
willingness to give away wealth, or control of or rights to wealth during life  for example 
transfers between three and seven years before death or as normal expenditure out of 
income or within the annual exemption. In some instances this may require a willingness to 
become involved in setting up legal arrangements like trusts, such as will trusts or other 
discretionary trusts. The extent to which reducing potential inheritance tax was a priority for 
Mr and Mrs B, can in part be determined from the extent to which they were willing to gift or 
give up control of assets in pursuit of this objective.On that basis I find that it wasnt the chief priority over the period. The objective in 1994 was 
mainly to secure income. This isnt to say Mr and Mrs B were unwilling to make provisions to 
manage or reduce inheritance tax. From what Ive seen, in 1996 recommendations were 
prepared for Mr B to invest £21500 into a gift and loan trust that would place the growth 
outside his estate while retaining access to the capital. I note that this related only to the 
future growth. But at that time the adviser notes also recorded the existence of a whole of life 
policy with cover of £406,602 that it says was started in 1995 for inheritance tax purposes for 
a premium of £220 per month. There were also pension policies which, if not accessed, had 
potential at the time until age 75 to pass some wealth on while saving inheritance tax. 
There was also a discounted gift trust started in 2012. This sort of trust can be set up when 
an investor is prepared to give up the capital and knows what income they are willing to limit 
themselves to. It appears those circumstances existed in 2012 but only as far as a sum of 
£94000 was concerned.
Notes which I believe relate to the 2012 advice, but appear on a 2014 fact find document, 
included the following: Mr B has recently sold a property and wishes to undertake some 
additional IHT planning now that he has more liquidity. Priorities at the time included 
inheritance tax and estate planning: To reduce the potential IHT liability that the Estate 
would currently face in the event of death. For this: From available capital £94000 could 
afford to be set aside. And: Want to achieve the maximum impact on your current IHT 
liability as a result of this investment. It also noted: Income is currently broadly meeting 
general expenditure with a degree of disposable income prefer to have some additional 
income to allow for additional expenditure/Gifts to Grandchildren.
The notes refer to gifts of £35,000 as already having been given in May 2012. They also 
refer to a residual inheritance tax liability of £293,000 for Mr B and £170,898 for Mrs B.
So in my view the 2012 notes and advice suggest Mr and Mrs B had limited scope or 
willingness to gift more than the £94,000 they did at the time, in addition to the gifts and 
provision already made. Given that the gift at that time was from newly realised funds, this 
also suggests Mr and Mrs B didnt at an earlier point have this capital or other capital sums 
that they had wanted to give away for inheritance tax purposes  although it does seem to 
suggest that regular gifts from income were being made.
For example, at a 1998 review advice was given to invest in a PEP as well as an onshore 
bond. It was noted that will trusts were being drafted. Mr and Mrs Bs priority was selected 
(from a list) as being investment planning as number one. No other priorities were marked. 
Inheritance tax planning and other tax planning were available options to select.
Similarly when a top up to the offshore bonds was recommended in 2014, the advisers 
notes at that time said: They are using their annual gift allowances to children/grandchildren 
and have taken some steps to mitigate IHT which they feel is enough at the present time. 
Also the 2014 advice letter said: You have a substantial IHT liability on your estate and 
you do not wish to address this liability at the current time
So I dont agree that inheritance tax mitigation of the kind to which the executors have 
referred, was always the chief objective of Mr and Mrs B over the period. The investments 
recommended did allow tax mitigating steps to be taken by Mr and Mrs B if they wished in 
future - such as gifting bonds by assignment - at a time they thought appropriate. Little use 
was made of those steps by Mr and Mrs B. In my view this doesnt mean SJPs advice was 
inappropriate, but it does reflect the extent to which Mr and Mrs B wished to put those sorts 
of measures into action.
In 2014 SJPs advice letter said bonds rather than unit trusts were recommended because Mr Bs capital gains tax allowance would be fully used up by the sale of properties. On this 
basis an onshore bond was expected to return more over a period of less than ten years 
than a unit trust investment. Also SJP said Mr B was a higher rate taxpayer who would be 
better off with an onshore rather than offshore bond over all investment terms. It explained 
its decision to recommend more be paid into the offshore bonds as follows:
I did not recommend an onshore Investment Bond to you on this occasion as it is your 
intention to assign clusters of this holding in multiple trusts for your grandchildrens benefit 
between the ages of 18 of (sic) 21. You want these funds to potentially reduce or eliminate 
any debt that could be incurred as a result of higher education. In this situation, the 
International Investment Bond may be more tax efficient as your beneficiaries are taxed at a 
lower rate than you.
It also said: When the assignment to your beneficiaries takes place provided your 
grandchildren are non-taxpayers at that time which you believe they will be as they will be in 
full time education, he or she will be able to offset any unused personal allowance against 
the gain and take advantage of the 10% starting band at the point of encashment. The 
International Investment Bond is also advantageous as all income and capital is rolled up 
and no income is provided for tax purposes.
These transfers did not take place. I dont have full details of Mr and Mrs Ds assets and it 
may well be they made other gifts, payments or transfers of which I am not aware and that 
may explain why they did not later transfer parts of the bonds as originally envisaged. 
This idea of passing the bonds to others was noted in 2014 only to explain why a payment 
was made into offshore rather than onshore bonds. If there had been no plan to perhaps gift 
bonds to others who were non-taxpayers, it appears the result wouldve been to take an 
onshore bond instead.
The 2014 letter also said: Furthermore, following assignment, provided your grandchildren 
remain non-taxpayers, our figures show that, for them, the projected returns of an 
International Investment Bond exceed those of the on-shore Investment Bond for investment 
terms of 10 years or more. It seems to me that speculating as to the tax position of anyone 
in ten years time is of limited value  and the idea of someone remaining a non-taxpayer for 
ten years doesnt seem plausible. So I dont think this point adds weight to the advice. 
One reason for topping up the offshore bonds was Mr and Mrs B were familiar with them and 
happy with their performance  and this may have overridden some other considerations at 
the time. Notes from 2014 included: They feel that they would like to top up the [offshore 
bond] that they have had for some time. They like the fact that it bears no tax whilst invested, 
they understand and appreciate [it] as a means of generating income and feel that the 
additional income that a top up would give is what they require. They have been very 
please[d] with the long term performance of their [bond] and feel [comfortable] with this type 
of investment.
Familiarity and customer preferences are legitimate things to take into account. But these 
ought not unduly override financially material considerations. The ability for a non-taxpayer 
to receive an assignment of the bonds was a legitimate and material financial consideration 
in my view. The executors have questioned whether there were in fact grandchildren whose 
ages fitted in with the aims stated in the advice letter. Ive thought about this, but it seems to 
me that Mr and Mrs B had knowledge of the ages and situations of their grandchildren  and 
were in a better position to know this than SJP. It appears that they were content with the 
account of their plans that SJP gave in its advice letter, and content to use the offshore bond 
on that basis. With this in mind Im not persuaded I can find fault with that approach.In my view it wasnt wrong or unusual at the start to have the bonds set with Mr and Mrs B 
as the lives assured. The forced encashment of the bond upon second death could mean a 
worse result than if the investment carried on, but a disadvantage wasnt bound to arise from 
this. I accept having the extra option of the bonds being able to continue for longer, wouldve 
been an advantage and carried no obvious disadvantages. But I dont think this means an 
arrangement that didnt offer that option was unsuitable.
In this regard I also note that the 2014 advice letter also said: Your International Investment 
Bond will be held with you as owner and the life assured. I recommended that younger lives 
assured are selected to avoid early encashment charge on death within 6 years. However, 
you declined this because you simply wish to make an additional investment to your existing 
Bond and do now wish to complicate the paperwork or discuss the position with your sons. 
And it is your intention to assign value to multiple trusts as described above.
It seems to me that the question of adding further and younger lives to Mr and Mrs Bs bonds 
was raised here but rejected by them despite the fact that a material financial disadvantage 
could arise as a result in the event of death.
With this and what Ive already said above in mind, Im not persuaded to find SJP at fault for 
not having added or having advised Mr and Mrs B to add younger lives to the bonds or for 
loss arising by virtue of the bonds being encashed in 2020 upon second death.
Ive thought carefully about the question of rebasing the bonds and the possibility of reducing 
future income tax as a result. There may have been scope for some future tax savings to 
have been achieved by actions taken in the years immediately preceding 2018, based on 
Mrs B being a non-taxpayer. I note that there was also the option to benefit dependents by 
assigning policies and this isnt a course of action Mr and Mrs B chose to take.
The executors havent specified any particular point where the advice should have been 
given and tax saved by a restructure of the bonds, or shown what scope there was to do 
this. Im not persuaded that the scope for this was substantial or wouldve had the effect of 
substantially reducing the very large tax liabilities that had been built up as a result of very 
large sums of growth having been achieved on what were, to start off with, very large sums 
in the context of available income tax allowances.
It seems to me that reducing the potential future income tax liability in a significant way for 
the offshore bonds wouldve likely required triggering a chargeable event so basic rate tax 
could be accounted for. This wouldve been more than just a variation in how income was 
taken. It wouldve meant the surrender of bonds, with the net proceeds reinvested into fresh 
contracts no longer carrying untaxed gains. This action would have had immediate costs as 
it would mean a loss to tax and reinvestments costs compared to not taking action.
Ive not seen evidence to show that the benefits of such action wouldve been substantial. So 
unless the overriding priority was to reduce tax on Mr and Mrs Bs estates - or to reduce the 
total tax paid regardless of who paid it and when (so Mr and Mrs B wouldve chosen to suffer 
more tax or costs themselves if this were at a lower rate than might be incurred later by their 
estates) - I dont think SJP is at fault for not advising this course of action. From what Ive 
seen, I dont consider that reducing the tax for their estates can be fairly characterised as 
being an overriding priority for Mr and Mrs B in this way over the period Ive considered.
I accept that SJP had a role to play in making recommendations and giving advice in 
connection with these matters. But if Mr and Mrs B at a particular time did not wish to take 
steps immediately that might inconvenience or disadvantage themselves in the short term 
but might benefit their estates in the longer term, I dont see that SJP was responsible for 
making Mr and Mrs B take those steps or make those choices.I note that after September 2018, the scope for tax mitigating measures to be successfully 
put into practice was limited given Mr B was the higher taxpayer. Mr B still had the option of 
assigning parts of the bond to relatives to whom he wished to give funds and who might pay 
income tax on the chargeable gains at a lower rate than Mr B. But gifts to avoid inheritance 
tax would no longer have succeeded, as noted already above.
On balance, and in light of all Ive said above, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. If the 
executors of the estates wish to accept SJPs offer relating to certain other issues (outlined 
by SJP in April 2020 as tax on certain withdrawals made in error, up to £2000 for reasonable 
accountant costs to calculate this and for other calculations and £750 for trouble and upset 
experienced) they should approach SJP about this direct.
Ive grateful to the parties for their submissions and for the engagement and assistance they 
have offered our investigation throughout.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of 
Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman