DRN-1471516
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Very) mistakenly allocated a 
purchase he made to the wrong type of account. He says this has led to him falling into 
arrears. He wants to be put on the type of contract he requested.
What happened
Mr B tells us that in March 2019 he purchased an IPhone on what he thought was a Buy 
Now Pay Later (BNPL) account he had with Very. He says that some weeks later he 
received a call from Very seeking a payment. As he hadn't been expecting to have to pay for 
the item for some months he queried the request for payment. He says he was informed that 
the item wasn't on a BNPL offer and that monthly minimum payments were required. And as 
these hadn't been made the account was in arrears.
Very told us it accepted that an error had been made. It said that Mr B had phoned on 
18 March 2019 to check his account and had been mistakenly advised that BNPL terms 
would apply. It said it had then been realised that he didn't qualify for the BNPL terms in 
respect of this item. Very explained that Mr B had been advised of this on 26 April 2019. But 
that he'd not made any payments in respect of this item since then. Following a discussion 
with our investigator Very said it would offer £50 compensation for the initial mistake. And it 
was prepared to consider a payment arrangement.  
Our investigator thought Very had made a fair and reasonable offer and said she wouldn't be 
asking it to do anything else.
Mr B didn't agree with this outcome. As it's not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman's been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B would be upset and disappointed to learn that the phone he 
purchased wasn't available on BNPL terms. And it was unfortunate that he was initially given 
mistaken information to the effect that repayment would be possible through this type of 
account.
Briefly summarised, a BNPL account allows a consumer to defer payment on an item for a 
set period. Provided the full purchase price is made within that period then no further interest 
is applied. But a key consideration is that whether an item or a consumer is eligible for BNPL 
terms is at the discretion of the business.
Here the agreement was set up on 80 week repayment terms - not BNPL terms - and this 
meant a minimum payment was required each month. That was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the finance agreement.Mr B must have had some initial doubts as it seems he phoned Very to check on his account 
status. Unfortunately, he was incorrectly informed the item was subject  to BNPL terms. 
Subsequently this error was corrected and Mr B was informed in late April that the 
item would be subject to the standard terms which included interest. Since then Mr B hasn't 
made any payments and the account has fallen further into arrears.
I accept that Very made an error in advising Mr B that the item had been allocated to 
a BNPL account. But it quickly corrected that error and Mr B has known of the requirement 
to make minimum monthly payments from within a few weeks of the order. The terms and 
conditions, which Mr B accepted when the account was opened, allow for items wrongly 
allocated to an account for which they or the account holder are ineligible to be transferred to 
a different account. Given the prompt notification of the error I don't think it can be fairly said 
that his arrears have arisen from Very's error.
I note that Mr B now says he's unable to afford the interest payments. Businesses are 
required to treat customers who experience financial difficulties fairly. Very has offered to 
consider a payment arrangement - which is a fair and reasonable response -  and it may be 
that Mr B will wish to discuss this further with the business. 
In summary, I find an error was made in Mr B being given incorrect information about the 
BNPL account. That error was corrected in a timely manner. Very's offer to pay £50 and 
remove late payment charges for May 2019 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
shan't be requiring Very to do anything else. And whilst I know my decision will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B I'm only upholding this complaint to this limited extent.
 My final decision
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has made an offer to pay £50 compensation in 
respect of providing incorrect account information. I think that's a fair and reasonable offer in 
full and final settlement of this complaint. I'm upholding this complaint only to that limited 
extent. Subject to it paying £50 to Mr B, I shan't be asking Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman