DRN-3890430
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Key Retirement Solutions Limited misled her into taking tax free 
cash from her personal pension policy (PPP) and then converting the remainder into an 
annuity. Miss B has said that she didnt understand what was being proposed and that, had 
she done so, she wouldnt have proceeded. 
What happened
In 2014, Miss B says she received a cold call from someone she believed to have been 
from Aegon, the provider of her PPP, and asked if she wanted to release money from her 
pension. As Miss B wanted to replace her car at the time, a telephone appointment took 
place on 7 March 2014. The call wasnt with Aegon, but with a broker from Key Retirement 
Solutions Ltd (Key).
During the call, Miss Bs health and lifestyle were discussed. Miss B was 57 at the time. A 
questionnaire was completed to allow annuity providers to fully assess her suitability for an 
enhanced annuity quote. File notes provided by Key noted that Miss B wanted to take the 
tax free cash fairly quickly and that her financial adviser had also looked at the situation, 
but would charge her £1,200 to provide advice.
After the telephone appointment, Key sent Miss B details about their service including the 
Key facts about our service and costs and their Terms of Business. Miss B was also 
asked to complete and return a form to confirm on what basis she would like an annuity 
quote, and to give authorisation for Key to approach Aegon for her pension details in 
relation to an Open Market Option / Transfer to an alternative provider.
On 19 March 2014, the government announced substantial changes to pension legislation 
in the budget. The proposed changes would, amongst other things, allow more flexibility in 
accessing pension benefits. The changes became known as pension freedoms.
Miss B spoke with Key again on 27 March 2014, during which she asked for assistance in 
completing the forms shed been sent. Key received the completed forms on 28 March 2014.
In April 2014, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published its Interim Guidance which 
set out the actions firms should be taking in the run up to pension freedoms in April 2015.
A further call with Key took place on 2 April 2014. The call notes recorded She needs the 
cash asap. She is registered disabled and needs the TFC for a car.
Following a request from Key, Aegon sent Miss B a Retirement Options letter on 11 April 
2014 and provided the pension details to Key.
On 23 April 2014, Key wrote to Miss B showing the results of their research. The letter set
out details of the annuity options from Aegon, and the annuity quote from the most 
competitive other provider, Just Retirement. A personal quotation was included from Just 
Retirement. The monthly annuity income from Just Retirement was higher than that offered 
by Aegon.
Another call took place with Miss B. The broker recorded I answered all her questions and 
shell return the app etc tomorrow.
Miss B completed the application form and returned it to Key. The annuity started with Just 
Retirement on 10 June 2014, the same day they sent Miss B a welcome letter, the policy 
terms, and the completion quotation. The tax free cash of around £7,000, from a fund value 
of just under £29,000, was then paid by Aegon.
On 10 December 2014, Miss B called Key. The call notes record that - She said the 
annuity has been set up too soon i.e. not until shes 60 yrs. I explained she completed all 
the paperwork and sent ID. She even said shes bought a car with the TFC. Long story 
short, shes now fine with the annuity as it is.
Miss B continued to receive her monthly annuity income. In 2021, Miss B contacted her 
financial adviser to release another lump sum from her pension but she said she was 
surprised to learn it was no longer with Aegon, and had been used to purchase an annuity.
Miss B complained to Key. She said it hadnt been explained that she would be giving up 
her pension completely, nor that it would involve moving money away from Aegon. Neither 
did she know she wouldnt be able to take any more funds from her pension. Miss B said 
she was registered disabled and was dyslexic and, not having a very good understanding 
of pensions, she felt misled by Key. She further said that, had she realised there would be 
no further access to lump sums, she wouldnt have agreed to the monthly annuity income.
Key issued a final response letter on 8 September 2021, in which it declined to uphold the 
complaint. In summary, it said that the phone calls and the documentation from the time 
would have made it sufficiently clear as to what was happening with Miss Bs PPP, and that 
she made an informed choice. In support of this, it said that Miss Bs health and lifestyle was 
taken into account, and Miss B completed the relevant options forms for the tax free cash 
and annuity. She chose an annuity to be paid monthly in arrears, with a ten year guarantee, 
Key said.
Dissatisfied with the response, Miss B referred the complaint to this service. Key provided a 
business file and subsequently confirmed call recordings werent available - but it did provide 
a call and event log of the interactions with Miss B.
Our investigator set out his assessment of the matter, in which he said that he didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said the following:
He was satisfied that the available evidence supported the position that Miss B was 
informed of Keys non-advisory role in establishing the annuity.
Aegon strongly recommended that Miss B seek financial advice, but she opted not to. 
He noted what Miss B had said about her dyslexia and other health conditions, but 
considered that this would have made it more important that she considered taking 
financial advice on the proposal. The evidence suggested that Miss B had contacted 
her financial adviser about the matter, but had declined to use them due to the cost 
involved.
The evidence also supported the position that Miss B ought to have appreciated that 
she was buying an annuity.
Following the announcement in March 2014 about the pension freedoms, Key should 
have made Miss B aware of the changes which would be implemented the following year. The available evidence didnt indicate that it had, but even if Miss B had been 
informed of this, she would then have needed to wait until April 2015 to access her 
entire pension as a lump sum  and she was in a hurry to obtain her tax free cash.
Further, even if Miss B had waited until April 2015 to capitalise on flexi access 
drawdown, the investigator wasnt persuaded that she would have opted for this, as it 
would have involved leaving the pension funds exposed to investment risk.
Key needed to explain that Miss Bs health and lifestyle could affect the amount of 
annuity shed receive, but the investigator was satisfied that it had done so, and that 
it had also researched the entire annuity market to source the best annuity for her.
Miss B disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
Shed been made to believe that she was dealing with Aegon, and was unaware that 
she was dealing with Key.
She wasnt informed what an annuity was, or that her pension would be converted 
into one. The paperwork may have explained this, but due to her specific conditions, 
including dyslexia, she wasnt able to appreciate it.
Shed thought that the money moved to Key was what Aegon had calculated as the 
amount which would be paid to her each month until her pension was paid to her.
She did need a new car, but she hadnt realised that she was in danger of losing her 
pension.
Key hadnt explained things to her, and if they had, Miss B queried as to why she 
would relinquish the opportunity of her pension maturing and achieving a lump sum, 
rather than only receiving a tiny sum each month.
Cold calling people about their pensions had since been banned and she hadnt been 
told to seek financial advice. She hadnt thought her pension was at risk, and so she 
didnt in any case think she need to do so.
As agreement wasnt reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 25 October 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons for upholding the complaint. The following is an extract from that decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im inclined to agree with the investigators assessment that Miss B ought reasonably to 
have appreciated that she was accessing her pension benefits, both through the tax free 
cash and then as an annuity with the remaining funds. And if Miss B didnt, I also share the 
view that this is something which Miss B could have been fully informed about by seeking 
financial advice. 
I acknowledge what Miss B has said about not thinking she needed to, but if she didnt fully 
understand the documentation provided, or appreciate the implications of what she was 
doing, then I think this  or even asking a friend or relative to help her understand what was 
being proposed - would have been a reasonable course of action.But there is then the matter of what Miss B might have done if shed been properly informed 
of the pending pension freedoms. I think its worth noting that, although its been set out that 
Miss B wished to buy a car with her tax free cash, my understanding is that Key approached 
her to assess her benefit options, rather than the other way around. And so the idea of 
buying a car may well have been prompted by the prospect of being able to access her tax 
free cash, rather than it having been her own urgent requirement.
But even if I accept that Miss B was keen to access her tax free cash to buy a car, she could 
then have retained the residual fund for future access. And in my consideration of whether 
she would have opted for this, according to the call note of 10 December 2014 as set out 
above, Miss B expressed concern that she was receiving her pension prior to her 60th 
birthday. 
She said that the annuity had been set up too soon, and although the call seemingly ended 
with Miss B having accepted that the annuity was now in payment, even if she hadnt, this 
would in any case have been outside the cancellation period to rescind the process. 
Part of Miss Bs complaint is that she was unaware that shed be unable to take further lump 
sums from her pension and that she had effectively swapped the entirety of her pension fund 
for the tax free cash and the annuity. Miss B has said that she would much rather have been 
able to access it all as a lump sum rather than what she considers to be a small monthly 
annuity amount.
As Ive said above, I think the available evidence (not least the actual options chosen by 
Miss B) indicates that Miss B ought reasonably to have known, or was in a position to seek 
advice towards being fully informed, that she was receiving her pension benefits by way of 
an annuity, and Id also like to reassure Miss B that she hasnt lost her pension, or had it 
taken from her. Rather, its been converted into an annuity, which was calculated on the 
basis of her lifestyle and health conditions. Although Miss B considers that this happened too 
soon, an annuity providing a guaranteed income is still a popular choice amongst retirees, 
even after the introduction of pension freedoms, rather than leaving a pension fund exposed 
to ongoing investment risk and, as the investigator said, taking the risk of it running out.
But I think that might miss the point here. In the knowledge of the size of her pension fund 
and, if properly informed of the pending pension freedoms, Miss B would have realised that 
she could access her tax free cash in 2014, and then be able to take the remainder as a 
taxed lump sum from April 2015 if she wished. Miss Bs pension fund may have remained 
exposed to investment risk until the lump sum was taken, but until the intervention of Key, it 
was always going to be - in its entirety - until Miss B decided to start taking benefits. So the 
position for the residual pension funds would have remained broadly neutral.
And I dont think Miss B wanted to begin receiving an income from her pension fund at that 
point, as indicated by the call note referenced above. Nor is there any supporting evidence 
that she needed it to meet regular expenditure. She may have completed the required 
paperwork to establish the annuity, but if shed been made aware of the coming pension 
freedoms, and what this meant for her in terms of wider choices, I think she would more 
likely than not have simply withdrawn the tax free cash at that point.
Given what Miss B has said in bringing her complaint, I think that she may well have 
accessed it later as a taxed lump sum, but this would have been for Miss B to decide once 
the pension freedoms had been implemented.
Overall, therefore, Im currently minded to say that the complaint should be upheld and that 
Key should take steps to put Miss B, as closely as possible, into the position that she would 
otherwise have been.Putting things right
On the presumption that Miss B would have taken her tax free cash, but retained the 
remainder of her pension fund in drawdown pending the introduction of the pension 
freedoms, Key Retirement Solutions Limited should determine the notional value of Miss Bs 
pension plan, as at the date of any final decision along these lines, had the tax free cash 
been taken, but the residual funds remained invested  effectively in drawdown.
From that notional value may be deducted the income Miss B has received from the annuity, 
along with the capital cost of buying the same annuity, as at the date of any final decision 
along these lines.
Any remainder would be the current loss to Miss B as a result of taking the annuity in 2014. 
The amount of loss should if possible be paid into Miss Bs pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss B as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow 
for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Miss B has already taken her full tax-free cash entitlement from this pension, so 100% of 
any loss would be taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 20% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
Miss B accepted my provision findings, but Key made the following further comments:
Although it had been claimed that it had cold called Miss B, this wasnt the case. 
Miss B had in fact contacted it through its website on 7 March 2014.
It was therefore clear that Miss B had herself identified that pursuing a non-advised 
annuity was in her best interests. This was also supported by Miss B having already 
contacted a financial adviser but deciding against the advised service due to the cost.
Miss B had said that her annuity had started too soon, but the policy schedule issued 
to her made it clear that the annuity payments would commence from 10 June 2014. 
Miss B agreed to proceed in full knowledge of this.
Most notably, Key said it had approved an email and a factsheet (which it provided) 
in March 2014 for distribution to the client database relating to the pending changes 
in pension legislation as a result of the proposed freedoms. It was unable to provide 
confirmation that Miss B had received the communications, but her marketing 
permissions allowed email communication and with a valid email address recorded, it 
was therefore reasonable to conclude that Miss B received it.
Given that Miss B chose to establish an annuity, it was likely than any funds left in 
drawdown would have been invested cautiously and so drawdown may not have 
been appropriate for her.
However, if my findings remained the same as those outlined in the provisional decision, it 
also sought further guidance on the manner of calculating redress.I then issued a further provisional decision dated 8 December 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons as to why Id changed my view on the complaint  and that I now considered that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
The following is an extract from that decision.
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given careful thought to the points raised by Key in response to the provisional decision, 
notably the information its provided about the contact it made with clients who had opted in 
to marketing emails, and what they would then have received in terms of its update on the 
pension freedoms.
And having done so, Im satisfied that, as Key has a record of Miss B being opted in to such 
emails, its more likely than not that it was sent to Miss B. And having also looked at the 
information contained in both the email and the attached fact sheet, the proposed changes 
under the freedoms - including the ability to take the whole pension fund as a lump sum 
rather than as a 25% tax free cash and the remainder as an annuity - were set out.
And again, as I said in the provisional decision, I think if Miss B had any questions around 
this, she would have been in a position to either ask them of Key, or of a third party, 
including a financial adviser if she wished. 
Ive also thought more about the requirements of Key when they were providing a non-
advised annuity broker service, as my understanding is they were here. And I think what 
Key has said about its role here, and also about Miss B having approached it, rather than the 
other way around, means that they didnt need to make her aware of her other options, such 
as income drawdown, which would have enabled her to access her tax free cash and leave 
the remainder invested. 
This would have been more the role of an advising firm, which would have explored Miss Bs 
options in detail, and could have assessed whether income drawdown was the more 
appropriate route for her.
Key, for its part as an annuity broker which had been approached by Miss B, needed to fulfil 
its regulatory obligations in term of researching an appropriate annuity for her circumstances 
and setting it up for her. And Im satisfied that this is what it did here.
I think its possible that there may have been miscommunication in terms of what Miss B 
actually wanted to achieve, which I understand was in essence just access to a lump sum to 
buy a new car. But I dont now think that Key, again, as an annuity broker which had been 
approached by Miss B, and having provided additional evidence about the information which 
would have been provided to Miss B about the pending pension freedoms as was required of 
it by the regulator, did anything wrong in then providing access to the tax free cash and 
setting up the annuity.
I know this proposed change in outcome will disappoint Miss B. But I do need to be fair to 
both parties, and although I know Miss B remains firmly of the view that a mistake was made 
here in setting up the annuity, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably attribute liability for that 
to Key.
And I would reiterate what I said in the provisional decision in that Miss B hasnt lost her 
pension. It has simply been translated into a regular income by way of the annuity. I know 
Miss B considers it to be small, but she has effectively swapped her pension fund for the tax free cash and the annuity, and the annuity provider will have been expected to pay a fair 
regular amount in return for receiving the pension fund.
So I dont think that Miss B will have lost out  and I do need to emphasise this point, as I 
know how strongly Miss B feels about the matter. Rather than a further lump sum payment 
from her pension fund, she will receive the regular pension income for the rest of her life, 
which when added up, may in fact work out to her advantage if she lives beyond her 
predicted life expectancy.
Key had nothing further to add, but Miss B said the following in response:
She wished to see the evidence of her contact with Key. She hadnt contacted Key 
on its website  rather, if she had clicked on a link in an email, it would have been 
out of curiosity. She wouldnt have asked Key, or any other broker, to contact her.
Although she needed the lump sum, it didnt occur to Miss B to do anything with her 
pension.
She was given a lot of paperwork to simply sign, and when Key called her, it didnt 
tell her who it was. She was convinced that the caller was from her pension provider.
The first time that she spoke with her financial adviser was to access her pension in 
around September 2022. She clearly wouldnt have done so had she realised that 
her pension had already been annuitized.
She then called Key about this, but although it should have been obvious that she 
didnt understand what had happened, the call handler didnt explain this to her. 
When she again called a few years later to enquire as to whether she could access a 
further lump sum, she was abruptly told she couldnt  but again no explanation was 
offered.
She didnt receive any emails from Key about changes in pension legislation as she 
wasnt registered on its website  had she realised that she could later access her 
pension as a lump sum, she would have opted for this. She first realised this could 
have been a possibility when reading the first provisional decision.
Key didnt offer her any other option than accessing the tax free lump sum and then 
annuitizing.
As she suffered from dyslexia, she had trouble understanding what she was reading, 
but as she thought she was dealing with her pension provider, she trusted what she 
was being told and what was happening.
Financial companies had a history of not treating people like her fairly, and the sum 
at stake would mean little to Key, but the difference between £103 pm and a lump 
sum was significant for her.
She felt out of her depth and ill equipped to put her case across well over emails, but 
she was upset that a company such as Key could decide how she should receive 
her own pension.
She bitterly regretted not seeking advice now, and if shed been fully informed as to 
what she was doing, she would have made a different decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, I do very much appreciate how strongly Miss B feels 
about this matter, and Im conscious of her view that she made an ill informed decision 
based on a misunderstanding of what was being proposed.
And I think thats the crux of whats happened here  there has been a miscommunication as 
to what would happen with the remainder of Miss Bs pension fund once shed accessed her 
tax free cash. 
But in order to uphold the complaint, Id need to fairly and reasonably be able to conclude 
that Key had done something wrong, either in the way it set up Miss Bs annuity, or in the 
information it provided to her.
And for the reasons given in the previous decision, I dont think it has. Although Miss B has 
said that she didnt approach Key, I note that she thinks she may have clicked on a link 
which would then have taken her to its website. So, although I acknowledge that Miss B may 
have been responding to some kind of marketing invitation, as this wasnt a direct approach, 
I still think that Key would reasonably have considered that Miss B had expressed an 
intention to it to access her tax free lump sum, and to then convert the remainder into an 
annuity.
I also acknowledged that Miss B remains of the view that she would have made a different 
decision had she been aware that she would receive no further lump sums. I think the 
question might reasonably be asked as to how or why Miss B thought that she was receiving 
just over £100 pm once shed received her tax free cash, but as I dont think I can conclude 
that Key has done anything wrong here, I dont think it really makes a difference.
In closing, I would again reiterate that Miss B hasnt lost her pension. Its simply being paid 
to her in a different format - a monthly income for life, instead of a lump sum.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman