DRN-3716659
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited handled her motor insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
Mrs M had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. She said her car was hit by a stray golf ball
while she was driving close to a golf club. There was damage to her car as a result.
Mrs M says she asked the golf club for details and then submitted a claim to her insurer. She
said the golf club accepted responsibility as did the person whod hit the ball. This meant the
claim excess may not have been payable.
Aviva looked into matters but decided it would be treated as a fault claim, because they
didnt think recovery was possible. Eventually, Mrs M withdrew the claim because she felt
Aviva had been unfair and that shed lose out by non-recovery of the excess.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They didnt think Aviva were responsible for any
loss Mrs M may incur. But Mrs M didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining what I thought was a fair 
outcome in this case, Ive copied it below.
I think Aviva ought to have done more to investigate Mrs Ms claim, and that had they done
so it is likely theyd have been able to recover her excess. Ill explain why.
Mrs M has provided evidence of communication she had with the golf club and, based on
that, she says the golf club had details of the person responsible for the damage and that
theyd accepted liability on account of signage at the ground, which set out the responsibility
of the players.
Mrs M has an email from the Managing Director of the golf club which refers to her insurance
claim. He doesnt explicitly accept the club or its patrons are responsible, but he pointedly 
provided his details to her, which says to me they felt they had some responsibility and
information that would be useful for the claim. If they felt they werent responsible, or had no
information, then Id have expected them to say as such.
Aviva say that when they contacted the golf club, they were told that there was no evidence
of them or their patrons being responsible. But Aviva didnt contact the golf club until over
four months after the incident occurred, so I dont think its surprising that records wont have
been available then. I think its likely theyd have been available if Aviva had asked for them
promptly.
Mrs M says the estimate for repairs was originally £300, which wouldve been below her
excess (although it has since increased). This could be seen as a suggestion, albeit not from
her, that the loss would always have been for her to bear. But the policy Aviva provided to
Mrs M included legal services cover which said:
As part of your claim we will pay to recover your financial losses (such as your excess and
travel expenses) and also obtain compensation if, as a result of travelling in, getting into or
out of your car, you die or sustain personal injury.
To me, its clear the part about the excess is relevant here. If there was an admission of
liability at the time, along with contact details available for the responsible party, I think its
more likely than not that Aviva would have been able to recover Mrs Ms excess. And that
the reason it wasnt was because of their delay.
Aviva has been asked for further comment in relation to matters concerned but hasnt
responded within the period required.
Overall, I think Mrs M had a reasonable expectation that Aviva would make a prompt attempt
to deal with her claim and recover her excess. And I think its more likely than not that they
would have been successful.
I understand that the damage to Mrs Ms car has yet to be repaired, although it has been
said to be relatively minor and had not led to the car being unroadworthy. Mrs M has had
quotes for the repairs to be done and can provide those to Aviva for approval. Alternatively,
Aviva can arrange for one of their authorised repairers to rectify the damage.
And while not necessarily part of the original complaint, it seems reasonable to say that
Aviva ought to reclassify the claim as non-fault, and if any refund is due on the policy
renewal cost, that should be paid to Mrs M.
Aviva didnt reply to my provisional decision. Mrs M replied saying thank you.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind Aviva didnt have anything to add, and that Mrs M seemed satisfied with my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman