DRN-3580860
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have declined to cover the cost of
damage to her carpet under her home contents insurance.
What happened
Miss G took out contents insurance as part of a tenants household insurance scheme
arranged by her landlord with Aviva. In December 2020 there was a water leak from the
boiler located in Miss Gs bedroom. Miss G reported this to her landlord and disposed of the
bedroom carpet which she said was damaged by the leak. A few months later she made a
claim on her contents insurance for water damage to the carpet and for damage to the
ceiling in the room below the boiler.
Aviva agreed to cover the cost of redecoration of the ceiling but declined the claim for
replacing the carpet. They said that as Miss G had disposed of the carpet and they had seen
no evidence of the damage, they wouldnt cover the claim. Miss G wasnt happy with this
and complained to Aviva. She said that the water leaked from the boiler, through the carpet
to the ceiling below. If Aviva accepted the claim for the ceiling damage, they should also
accept the claim for the carpet as the water had to go through the carpet to get to the ceiling.
Aviva didnt agree and pointed out that the policy terms and conditions said that damaged
items should not be disposed of before being seen by the loss adjuster.
Miss G then brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but
didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he didnt think Aviva had acted
unfairly by declining the claim when they had seen no evidence of the damaged carpet. Miss
G asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
On 4 July 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Miss G took out the home contents insurance through her landlord. The water leak was first
reported to her landlord and Miss G says that she thought that they would deal with all the
resultant damage. However, the landlord declined to cover the cost of replacing the carpet
and suggested that Miss G make a claim on her insurance policy. By this time Miss G had
disposed of the carpet. The landlord didnt see the damaged carpet  and Miss G didnt take
any photos.
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most
likely caused any damage that occurred. There doesnt appear to be any dispute that a
water leak from the boiler is an insured event as Aviva repaired the damage to the ceiling
below the leak. So, what I need to consider is whether it was more likely than not that
damage to Miss Gs carpet was caused as a result.
Miss G says that there must have been damage to the carpet as the ceiling underneath the
carpet was damaged. I think this is a fair point. There must have been enough water to soak
through the carpet to get to the ceiling below and I think its reasonable therefore to expect
the carpet to have suffered water damage as a result. Miss G also confirms that the carpet
suffered water damage and staining.
Aviva say that if damage occurred, they should be able to see the damaged item before it is
disposed of. Ive looked carefully at Miss Gs policy terms and conditions. Page 25 says that
the policyholder must ensure that no damaged item is disposed of without being seen by
the Loss Adjuster. Miss G didnt do this.
However, I have to consider whether its fair to decline the claim for this reason. Miss G was
initially expecting her landlord to sort out the damage so there was no reason for her to save
the carpet. I also accept that Miss G had limited storage space at her property and so saving
a wet carpet would not have been reasonable. Whilst I appreciate that Aviva have been
unable to inspect the damage, I dont think they have been unduly prejudiced by this. Miss G
has described the water staining that occurred  and I think she is unlikely to have disposed
of a carpet which wasnt damaged. Aviva also accept that the ceiling below was damaged,
and it must follow that some water damage occurred to the carpet when the water soaked
through it. Im therefore satisfied that there is evidence of water damage and I dont think its
fair for Aviva to decline the claim because they couldnt inspect the carpet.
I therefore intend to uphold this complaint. Ive also considered the issue of compensation.
Miss G says she hasnt replaced the carpet because she couldnt afford to. Due to the time
taken to resolve this matter, Miss G has had to live with her bedroom uncarpeted for over a
year. This was upsetting for Miss G and affected the enjoyment of her home. I think it would
therefore be fair for Aviva to pay Miss G £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Response to my provisional decision
Miss G accepted my provisional decision. Aviva said that they should have been given the 
opportunity to restore the carpet, and that if Miss G believed she was going to make a claim 
she should have told them as soon as possible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional comments that Aviva made, but I havent seen anything to 
make me change my decision. Miss G didnt originally think she would be making a claim 
and I think that she told Aviva as soon as she became aware that she was. Whilst Aviva 
would have liked to consider restoring the carpet, that would have meant Miss G having to 
keep a damp and stained carpet and as Ive said previously, I dont think this was 
reasonable.
My final decision is therefore the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to
replace Miss Gs carpet and pay her £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman