DRN-1632424
The complaint
Mrs Z has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a fee-paying Silver 
account.
Mrs Z has given a number of reasons why she believes the account to have been mis-sold, 
including that the monthly cost of the account was not clearly explained to her, neither were 
the benefits that came with the account. Mrs Z says she never requested this type of 
account and that it was changed by members of staff at Lloyds.
What happened
Mrs Zs account history was:
Opened as a fee-free Cash account February 2008
Upgraded to a fee-paying Silver account May 2011
Downgraded to a fee-free Classic account April 2013
Upgraded to a fee-paying Silver account November 2015
Downgraded to a fee-free Classic account November 2018

We explained to Mrs Z that we are unable to consider the complaint about the sale of the 
Silver account in May 2011. Mrs Zs representative did not disagree with this. So an 
adjudicator assessed whether the Silver account sold in November 2015 was mis-sold, and 
he didnt think that it was.
Mrs Zs representative disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint has 
been referred for an ombudsmans final decision.
As weve already concluded that our service cannot consider the sale of the Silver account in 
May 2011, this decision will only address whether the Silver account sold in November 2015 
was mis-sold or not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
Mrs Z has said that she didnt request the Silver account and wasnt made aware of any 
other type of account. However, Lloyds has provided a signed application form for Mrs Zs 
account upgrade in 2015. So Im satisfied that she did consent to the upgrade and that it was 
not done without her knowledge by members of staff at Lloyds, as she suggests it was. 
Furthermore, I can see that Mrs Z had previously upgraded to the Silver account and then 
downgraded back to a fee-free account, before she agreed to it again in 2015. So I think Mrs 
Z was fully aware that fee-free accounts were generally available and that she could switch 
between a packaged account and a fee-free account at any time, if she didnt want it any 
more (which I can see she did in 2018). Therefore I think that Mrs Z agreed to the Silver 
account and did so knowing she didnt have to have it, if she didnt want it.
Lloyds recommended the account to Mrs Z. This meant it had to ensure it was a reasonable 
fit for her circumstances at the time. At the time, the Silver account cost £9.95 per month and 
provided European travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance, 
alongside banking benefits such as a £50 interest and fee-free overdraft facility.
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that Mrs Z was driving, had a mobile phone and 
occasionally travelled. And as the Silver account was the cheapest account Lloyds offered 
that included insurance cover for these things, I think that recommending the Silver account 
to Mrs Z was not unreasonable in the circumstances.
As well as making sure the account was a good fit for Mrs Zs circumstances, Lloyds also 
had to provide Mrs Z with enough information about the account, so that she could decide if 
the account was right for her too.
Mrs Z has said that the cost and benefits werent clearly explained to her. But shes also 
said, in response to the adjudicators assessment, that she agreed to the upgrade to receive 
benefits that were linked to a fee. The latter of which suggests that Mrs Z was told, at the 
very least, that there was a fee and that the account came with benefits. Given that she had 
held the account prior to this upgrade, and she was aware that it was optional, I think that 
Lloyds wouldve highlighted the main benefits that the account came with to encourage her 
to agree to the account. Also, looking at the documents provided by Lloyds from the time of 
the sale, it suggests that the main features of the account were discussed with Mrs Z.
I appreciate that Lloyds might not have given Mrs Z all of the information about the account 
that it shouldve done during the sale. But Ive not seen anything about Mrs Zs 
circumstances that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Silver 
account - for the second time - had she been given more information about it.
Because of this, I dont think the Silver account was mis-sold. I therefore dont think it would 
be appropriate to require Lloyds to refund the Silver account fees that Mrs Z paid from 
November 2015.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman