DRN-1930014
The complaint
Mr G complains MBNA Limited have incorrectly said he has an outstanding balance on the 
credit card he held with them.
What happened
Mr G had a credit card with MBNA. And he had a direct debit set up to pay the full balance 
every month.
In late 2018, Mr G was waiting on funds to be paid to him. And without this money, he 
wouldn't be able to clear his credit balance by the date his direct debit was due to go 
through. So, he called MBNA and asked if he could change the date of his direct debit. 
MBNA's advisor explained that it was too late in the month for Mr G to change his direct 
debit, and said he may want to contact his bank to make an indemnity claim. Mr G said he 
didn't want to be penalised for making a late payment, and asked what he could do to 
prevent this. The adviser explained Mr G could make the minimum payment on the account 
to prevent any late payment fees. Just over a week after this call, Mr G made the minimum 
payment online. And the following day he made another payment for what he thought was 
the remaining balance on his credit card.
Despite making these payments, around two weeks later, MBNA took a direct debit payment 
for the full amount Mr G owed before the payments had been made. But this amount didn't 
go through. And despite the payments Mr G had made, he realised that there was still a 
balance owing on his credit card. Mr G didn't think he owed anything further, so raised this 
MBNA.
MBNA told Mr G that his payments hadn't cleared the interest charged on his account. But 
Mr G explained the interest charged was too high and didn't believe he owed interest as he 
felt MBNA's adviser had told him he wouldn't be charged. MBNA didn't agree their adviser 
had told Mr G this, but did think he could have been given clearer information about the 
interest that applied to his account. So, while they maintained Mr G still had an outstanding 
balance, they paid him £50 for the confusion he'd experienced.
Mr G remained unhappy and continued to dispute this over the following months. And in 
December 2018, he sent a £300 cheque, addressed to MBNA's complaint manager and his 
letter explained this was in "full and final settlement" of the dispute. MBNA cashed Mr G's 
cheque, but also continued to contact him about the balance that remained after this 
payment.
Mr G felt MBNA's actions were illegal and refused to make further payments. He later asked 
MBNA to close his account and acknowledge his closing balance was £0. MBNA issued their 
final response to Mr G in April 2019. And while they agreed to close Mr G's credit card 
account, they maintained he still owed a balance, and he would need to repay this. Mr G 
didn't make any further payments, so MBNA sold his account to a debt collections agency.
Mr G remained unhappy with MBNA's actions, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
When he contacted us, he explained he disagreed with the amount MBNA said he owed. He 
also said he felt MBNA had acted illegally by cashing a cheque marked as full and final 
settlement without drawing matters to a close. Mr G was also unhappy that he never 
received the terms and conditions for his credit card account, and for a period of time he 
didn't receive statements for his account. Mr G also said that his credit rating was being 
affected this matter.
Our investigator looked into Mr G's complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator said MBNA had acted in line with their terms and conditions by charging Mr G 
interest when he didn't repay his full balance. And  as he couldn't see that Mr G had repaid 
the amount he owed, he didn't think MBNA had acted unfairly by sharing this information 
with credit referencing agencies.Our investigator was also persuaded that MBNA would most 
likely have sent terms and conditions for the account throughout the period of time it was 
open. And he was persuaded Mr G had chosen to change the format in which he wanted to 
receive statements, so he didn't think MBNA were to blame if Mr G didn't receive them by 
post.
Mr G disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint was passed to me to investigate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and will not be upholding Mr G's complaint. 
I know this isn't the outcome he wanted, so I'll explain my reasoning below. 
Mr G's complaint is made up of a number of points, so I'll address each point under the 
appropriate headings. But before I do so, I want to make it clear to Mr G that we are an 
informal service, and an alternative to the Courts. So, we don't have the power to make a 
finding on whether MBNA has broken the law. Having said that, we do take the relevant laws 
and regulations into account, while also considering what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Does Mr G have an outstanding balance?
In early October 2018, Mr G called MBNA to change his direct debit. His direct debit had 
been set up to pay his full balance, but he wanted to change the payment date, and for it pay 
the minimum balance as he was waiting on funds to be paid to him.MBNAs adviser said it was too close to the payment date for the direct debit amount or date 
to be amended, and suggested Mr G contact his bank and make a direct debit indemnity 
claim. Mr G was concerned about charges being applied to his account, so asked what he 
could pay to prevent this. The adviser explained that if the minimum payment was made by 
the payment date, Mr G shouldnt receive any charges, but there may be a bit of interest 
applied to his account. Mr G said he understood interest would be charged and asked the 
adviser to confirm what the minimum payment would be, so the adviser told him the amount 
he would need to pay, and when.
Weve been provided with copies of Mr Gs statements, and Ive seen he made two 
payments following his call with MBNA. One was for the minimum payment, and this was 
made a few days after it was due. Mr Gs second payment of just over £24,000 was made 
the following day. However, this was applied to his account nine days later. As the full 
balance wasnt cleared by Mr Gs payment date, interest of just over £600 was applied to his 
account. But when MBNA realised there was a delay in crediting Mr Gs second payment, 
they recalculated the interest and reduced it by just under £300. Despite Mr Gs payments, 
and the adjustment of interest, there was still an amount owing, and this is what Mr G 
disputes.
Having reviewed Mr Gs statement information, Ive not seen anything that suggest his 
interest was calculated incorrectly. The information provided shows interest was charged on 
the balance Mr G owed as he initially was only able to make the minimum payment. So, 
while he made a larger payment the following day, this wasnt enough to clear what he 
owed.
I can understand why there may have been some confusion about the amount of interest 
that would be applied to Mr Gs account. And thats because MBNAs advisers explanation 
was vague when he referred to a bit of interest. However, the interest was in line with the 
estimated interest detailed in Mr Gs September statement. MBNA has also explained to us 
how the interest was calculated, and Ive not seen anything that suggests those calculations 
were incorrect. So, Im not persuaded Mr G was billed incorrectly.
After discussing his concerns with MBNA, Mr G sent them a cheque for £300 in 
December 2018. The covering letter was addressed to MBNAs complaints manager and 
said the amount was in full and final settlement. MBNA cashed this cheque, but as it didnt 
clear the full balance, they continued to pursue Mr G.
I taken on board Mr Gs comments about his cheque being in full and final settlement of this 
matter. However, the terms and conditions that apply to his account say:
2 Your monthly repayments
2.4 We process payments automatically, so we may accept payments from you or a third
party marked as 'payment in full' or other similar language without losing our right to claim 
full payment.
As mentioned above, Im not persuaded Mr Gs interest was calculated incorrectly. So, 
considering this term, I dont consider he was treated unfairly when MBNA continued to 
contact him about a balance he legitimately owed  regardless of who the covering letter of 
the cheque was addressed to.Ultimately, what this appears to come down to is a disagreement over how the interest on 
Mr Gs outstanding balance was calculated when he couldnt repay his full balance by his 
normal billing date. Ive not seen any evidence that suggests or persuades me MBNA 
calculated the interest incorrectly. And because of this, I dont consider MBNA has treated 
Mr G unfairly by explaining he still has an outstanding balance owing. It also means I dont 
consider MBNA needs to anything about this balance that has now been sold to a debt 
collection agency. 
I appreciate Mr G could have been given clearer information during his first call with MBNA, 
particularly as he had explained he hadnt been receiving statements in that same call. But 
MBNA has acknowledged their mistake and offered Mr G £50 for the confusion. This is in 
line with what I would have awarded had MBNA not acknowledged their mistake, so I wont 
be asking them to do anything further to put things right. 
Was Mr G provided with the terms and conditions of his credit card account?
Mr G told us MBNA never sent him copies of the terms and conditions the apply to his credit 
card account.
Mr G opened his account in 2004, and due to the time thats passed, MBNA no longer has 
evidence to show what Mr G was sent at that time. Given that this happened around 
16 years ago, I dont consider thats unreasonable in the circumstances.
Since opening his credit card account, the terms and conditions have changed  and again, 
that isnt unusual given the time thats passed. MBNA has sent us information that shows 
Mr G was sent updated terms and conditions for his account in February, March and 
December 2018. Im not aware of any issues Mr G had with his post at that time, or that 
MBNA was notified of the same. So, if these documents werent received, I dont consider it 
would be fair to hold MBNA responsible for issues with the postal service.
I also cant ignore the fact Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr G has raised an issue about not 
having the terms and conditions for his account before this complaint. Given the amount of 
time Mr Gs account was open, I would have expected this issue to have been raised 
sooner. And ultimately, it doesnt take away from the fact Im persuaded Mr G understood 
how credit card accounts work before this complaint  and that is, interest is charged if the 
outstanding balance isnt paid in full, by the appropriate billing day each month. I say that 
because Mr G had set up a direct debit to pay the full statement balance each month. He 
also called MBNA in advance of his direct debit being taken to explain he wouldnt have the 
available funds to clear his balance in full. 
Given the above, Im persuaded Mr G would have received copies of the terms and 
conditions to his credit card account. But if he didnt that wouldnt change things here, 
because before the issues that arose in late 2018, he was already aware of the 
consequences of not repaying his full statement balance on time. 
Were statements for Mr G's account made available?
When Mr G called MBNA to change his direct debit, he also explained he hadnt received 
any statements since August 2017 and asked for copies to be sent to him. MBNAs adviser 
said statements had been sent and advised Mr G to speak with the postal service. Im aware Mr G had access to online banking for his account, so he would have been able to 
see the status of his account via that method. Ive also seen evidence from MBNA that 
shows Mr G contacted them on several occasions to switch between paper and paperless 
statements. This demonstrates that if Mr G couldnt access information about his balance, he 
knew how to contact MBNA to get this issue resolved.
Im persuaded Mr G had access to the information he needed, and the information Id expect 
MBNA to provide, to help him understand what he was likely to owe if his balance wasnt 
paid in full. 
Given the above, I dont consider MBNA has treated Mr G unfairly. And its for this reason, 
I wont be asking them to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I'm not upholding this complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman