DRN-3981301
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Naylors Finance Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs R was approved for one loan in May 2021. It was for £300, over 52 weeks and the 
repayments were scheduled to be £10.50 a week. Mrs R seemed to pay £46 for the month in 
May and June 2021 but then the repayments stopped. Mrs R agreed to a reduced payment 
of £5 a week from August 2021. But she paid infrequently and there remains an outstanding 
amount to pay. The reduced payment agreement was removed in March 2022 due to lack of 
payment. 
After Mrs R had complained Naylors issued her with its final response letter (FRL) in 
August 2022 in which it gave reasons why it was not going to uphold her complaint. 
Mrs R referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
adjudicators looked at it and thought the same  that Naylors had considered the application 
in a way which included proportionate checks and so had not done anything wrong. 
Mrs R says that Naylors claim they carried out relevant checks but had they done this they 
would have found I had arrears with [three other lenders].
Mrs R was not content and the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Naylors had to assess the lending to check if Mrs R could afford to pay back the amount 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Naylors checks couldve considered a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mrs Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Naylors should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs R. These factors include:
Mrs R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
But I do not consider that any of these bullet points necessarily apply to Mrs Rs 
circumstances because this was a first loan for Mrs R from Naylors, it was for a modest sum 
over a relatively short period  one year. Her declared income was not particularly low at 
£1,250 a month for part-time work. 
Naylors was required to establish whether Mrs R could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs R was able to repay her 
loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Rs complaint.
Mrs R declared to Naylors that her income was £1,250 a month from part time employment 
in a bank, which was calculated to be £288.46 a week. Mrs Rs outgoings were declared as  
£248.77 a week which included housing costs, bills, pensions and insurances, and other 
loan costs. 
There was no requirement for Naylors to have carried out a credit search but I asked Naylors 
to tell me whether it did or not. The reply was that it had carried one out and described it as a 
full credit check on the 4th May 2021 at 2.56pm with a satisfactory score of 534. 
I asked for and have received a copy of that credit search report. It is dated 4 May 2021. It 
shows me that Mrs R had no insolvency issues or judgements for debt, and her only default 
record was for one within the last 36 months. The detail about that default was it was for 
£135 in July 2019. So thats not really of any consequence for a lender such as Naylors who 
is used to seeing some adverse credit entries on a customers report.  
I can see from the search results that Mrs R had a few unsecured loans which were for low 
amounts and three had one month arrears markers against them. 
I can see that Mrs R was exceeding her overdraft of £200 and the balance in April 2021 was 
£410. She had arrears marker 7 for that account. Mrs R had a credit card that had 
exceeded its limit of £500  at £531. 
Mrs R had a hire purchase agreement as well  it had commenced in March 2020. The 
opening balance had been £11,695 and Mrs R was repaying at £198 a month for 60 months 
and it had a one month arrears marker on it. 
So, I now know that Naylors was aware of this and had factored it into its creditworthiness 
assessment. Having adverse entries on a credit report does not necessarily mean that 
anything Mrs R applied for would  or ought to have led - to an automatic refusal of credit. And what I did notice is that the late markers were all relatively recent. It may be that 
something has happened in her life which had led to needing some additional funds and for 
a short time. Which often is what these sorts of loans are for. Overall, I do not consider that 
these results would have led Naylors to think it ought not to lend to her when the loan 
amount she was asking for was modest at £300 and Mrs R was a new customer. 
And Id not have expected Naylors to have asked for and reviewed her bank statements as 
Id consider that to have been disproportionate. Our adjudicator did look at her bank 
statements (sent in by Mrs R) and did a careful income and expenditure (I&E) analysis. This 
would have been to satisfy himself on her I&E. And I have seen that our adjudicator had 
factored in the hire purchase repayments each month as well. He also calculated that Mrs N 
had money left over each month. 
Ultimately I consider that Naylors carried out checks that were proportionate for the loan 
being applied for and so I do not uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman