DRN-2418294
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard wont refund a payment 
he made for a holiday.
What happened
Mr W paid for a five day holiday through a travel agent (who Ill call F). The holiday cost £958 
and included travel and accommodation for two people, which was paid for using Mr Ws 
Barclaycard credit card. The holiday took place in December 2019. Unfortunately, on the 
second day Mr W fell ill. The hotel advised him and his wife to isolate in their room for the 
rest of the trip in order to limit the spread of infection to other guests. 
They say they werent permitted to travel on the coach on the return journey for the same 
reason and had to pay over £200 for a taxi home. Mr W was able to claim the cost of this taxi 
journey back from his travel insurance provider. 
Mr W requested a refund from F as they werent able to enjoy their holiday as planned. He 
said his illness only lasted one night but despite this he was still told to remain in his room. 
He said him and his wife were unable to participate in any of the organised activities, events 
or entertainment, nor enjoy the special meals. They said the food they were given in their 
hotel room wasnt to the same standard. They say they were also without TV for two days 
due to a fault with it in their room. 
F didnt agree to a refund, so Mr W raised a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (S75) with Barclaycard. Barclaycard didnt think it was liable under S75 because it 
said Mr Ws dispute was with the hotel, not with F who he had paid. Barclaycard said the 
required relationship didnt exist for it to be responsible for a claim under S75. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt agree with 
Barclaycards reasons for declining the S75 claim. However, she wasnt persuaded that 
there had been a breach of contract by F and it was for this reason she didnt think 
Barclaycard ought to provide Mr W with a refund. 
Mr W didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account the relevant law 
(amongst other things), which in this case is S75 and the Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018 (the travel regulations). With these in mind, Ive thought 
about whether Barclaycard were fair to decline Mr Ws claim and complaint. 
The general effect of S75 is that if Mr W has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against F he can bring a like claim against Barclaycard (as the provider of 
the credit), provided certain conditions are met. 
One of those conditions is that there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. Here, 
the debtor is Mr W, the creditor is Barclaycard and the supplier is F. However, Barclaycard 
has argued F isnt the supplier, the hotel is and therefore there is no DCS agreement and as 
such, no claim can be made under S75. But this isnt right. 
F is the supplier within the DCS agreement. This is the business Mr W paid and contracted 
with in order to arrange a package holiday. So, Im satisfied there is a DCS arrangement in 
place for the purchase Mr W made with his Barclaycard. Therefore, Barclaycard could be 
liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by F. 
It appears what Barclaycard is trying to say is that F has no liability for the actions of the 
hotel, but I dont think that is quite right either. The travel regulations define Mr Ws purchase 
as a package holiday. By extension this means F, as the travel agent, can potentially be held 
liable for a breach of contract by the hotel.
The crux of Mr Ws claim is that he didnt receive the services he paid for. This doesnt 
appear to be in dispute. I can see how disappointing this was for Mr W and his wife. Theyve 
explained in detail what this holiday meant to them and why they have felt let down by the 
parties concerned. Unfortunately, this isnt enough for me to say it would be fair and 
reasonable for Barclaycard to refund the purchase. This is because I havent seen anything 
to make me think there was a breach of contract by F. 
From everything Mr W has told us, there isnt anything to suggest his illness was caused by 
the actions (or inaction) of the hotel. It seems Mr W has suggested he may have contracted 
it from another guest and Ive not seen that the hotel knew or ought to have known about 
that other guests illness. 
It appears the hotels policy was for any guests with the symptoms that Mr W reported to 
isolate in their rooms. Mr W says this policy wasnt presented to them until they were 
checking out. But I dont think this made any difference. Even if the policy had been 
presented to them at check-in, I cant see that Mr W would have acted any differently. He 
didnt appear to know he was ill at that time or going to be ill. 
What happened was clearly upsetting for Mr W and his wife and has meant they couldnt 
enjoy their holiday as planned. However, I dont think this was because of anything the hotel 
or F did wrong or because of anything they failed to do. For this reason, I dont think theres 
been a breach of contract and it therefore wouldnt be fair and reasonable to direct 
Barclaycard to refund any money to Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman