DRN-3514866
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wouldnt allow him access to 
funds in his savings account.
What happened
Mr H found that he was unable to access funds from his savings account because he hadnt 
used it for some time. When he tried to reactivate the account in branch, he was told that he 
didnt have the necessary identification documents.
Mr H raised a complaint with Halifax, but didnt receive a response, so he referred it to our 
service. Halifax apologised to Mr H for not responding to his complaint sooner and issued a 
cheque for £106 to compensate him for poor service and travel costs. Halifax said it needed 
to see certain documents before it could reactivate an account. It said it couldnt accept the 
documents Mr H brought to the branch and suggested some alternative documents that it 
would be willing to accept.
Mr H remained unhappy, so our investigator looked into his concerns. She was satisfied that 
Halifax had followed its processes correctly and thought the compensation it had paid was 
fair. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think it was fair that Halifax hadnt 
informed him that his account was about to go into dormancy. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Halifax says that Mr Hs savings account was marked as dormant because he hadnt 
completed any transactions on the account since May 2016. This meant that Mr H needed to 
go into branch with sufficient documents to verify his identity in order to access his funds. Im 
satisfied from the supporting evidence Halifax has provided that this is correct.
Halifax has also provided us with a copy of its guidance on identification documents which 
shows which documents it will accept. Mr H was required to provide one document from list 
A and one from list B.
Mr H says he wasnt able to provide any of the documents on the list. I think it was 
reasonable for Halifax to have told him it wasnt able to reactivate his account when he went 
into branch. However, Halifax didnt seem to have provided Mr H with any suggestions of 
alternative documents it would be willing to accept until more than two months later. So, I 
can understand Mr Hs frustration about this.
When it responded to Mr Hs complaint, Halifax said it would accept a letter of introduction 
from his doctor to confirm his identity. It told him that if he got added to one of his parents 
utility bills it would accept this. I appreciate getting these documents resulted in some 
inconvenience for Mr H. But I think this was a reasonable way forward under the 
circumstances. I understand that since Mr H has provided the documents, the account has 
been reactivated. 
I appreciate Mr H is frustrated that Halifax didnt let him know of his intention to mark his 
account as dormant. But the internal information Halifax has shared with us shows its criteria 
for an account being made dormant and Im satisfied these applied to Mr Hs account. This 
information also shows that customers with less than £25 in their account arent included in 
mailings to let them know that their account is about to be marked as dormant. And from 
what I can see, Mr H had around £21 in his account. So, Im satisfied that Halifax has 
followed its processes correctly.
I understand Mr H feels that Halifax should inform customers that an account is about to be 
made dormant, regardless of the amount in it. However, our service doesnt have the power 
to tell a business what processes or procedures to put in place. Our role is to determine 
whether or not a business has treated a complainant fairly and reasonably, in line with its 
policies and procedures. 
I dont think it was wrong of Halifax to have applied the dormancy marker to Mr Hs account 
or to have required him to provide identification in order to access the funds within it. I do 
think it should have done more to help Mr H when first told it that he wasnt able to provide 
the documents Halifax required. However, Halifax has already paid Mr H £100 (plus £6 
travel costs) and I think this is fair compensation for the unnecessary frustration and 
inconvenience he experienced. So, I dont require Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman