DRN-4108554
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr K complain that when using their Revolut Ltd (Revolut) card while abroad it 
did not apply the preferential exchange rate available for foreign tourists. As a result they say 
they have incurred financial losses. 
What happened
Mrs C and Mr K held a Revolut card.  While abroad they discovered that when they used the 
Revolut card it used the official exchange rate for GBP to foreign currency while other cards 
were automatically granted the preferential tourist exchange (MEP). They say as a result of 
this they incurred financial losses of around $166 on eight transactions.
Mr K complained to Revolut about this. He says he was under the impression that Revolut 
would also apply the MEP rate and requested it refund the difference he paid in exchange 
rate.
Revolut said this wasnt possible - as although it accepted that a special rate had been 
introduced for tourists  it hadnt changed its exchange rates terms for customers and at the 
time it was only offering the official exchange rate.
Mrs C and Mr K were dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs C and Mr Ks concerns and reached the conclusion 
that Revolut charged its rate of exchange  the real rate, in line with its accounts terms and 
conditions. Revolut are not bound by regulations applied in other jurisdictions and as such 
they didnt think Revolut had treated Mrs C and Mr K unfairly. 
Mrs C and Mr K disagreed. They say customers shouldnt be expected to read the small 
print and that everyone else theyd met while travelling was benefitting from the MEP rate 
and this being the case that should be considered the real rate as it was the predominant 
one operating at the time locally.  
Mrs C and Mr K have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs C and Mr Ks 
complaint. 
I hope that Mrs C and Mr K wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint 
in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated 
on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And the 
crux of Mrs C and Mr Ks complaint is that Revolut dont use the same currency exchange 
rate as what other companies use.
Mrs C and Mr K are unhappy at the exchange rate used for transactions they made whilst 
abroad. They say Revolut should have applied the MEP rate they know others were 
receiving and was the predominate local rate used at the time.  
The MEP rate was introduced in late December 2022 and the payments/transactions in 
question took place in early February 2023. Revolut have told us that the MEP rate is 
provided by other card schemes and not Revolut, as it happens with all other currencies. So 
it took it some time to be able to offer this preferential rate. 
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
exchange rate Revolut used or is willing to offer is fair and reasonable in comparison to 
others. Ultimately, this is a commercial decision and isnt something for me to get involved 
with. 
That said, Revolut wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs C and Mr K if it mis-
led them about the exchange rate it was going to use before they decided to transact on 
their Resolut card. 
Revoluts terms and conditions say that when exchanging money currencies it uses its 
Revolut exchange rate. Revolut says it uses the real rate which can mean different things 
to different people and can be given different names like interbank rate. The rate varies 
and is determined based on the foreign exchange market data feeds it gets from a range of 
different independent sources. And customers are able to see in its app what exchange rate 
it offers for foreign currency prior to transacting.
I havent seen anything within Revoluts terms and conditions or otherwise to show me that 
Revolut has stated it would use the MEP rate or couldve mis-lead Mrs C and Mr K to believe 
that is the exchange rate that would be used while they were traveling and transacting in the 
country in question. 
Indeed, from what I have seen I think its likely Mr K presumed that he would get the MEP 
rate when transacting on his Revolut card because thats what others said they were getting. 
Mr K has also provided a photograph of a company advertising that it provides this rate 
when using it. But the others Mr K is referring to arent using a Revolut card as far as Im 
aware, and the company advertising and processing the MEP rate isnt Revolut  though I 
accept Revolut uses its payment network.
So I dont think that Revolut mis-lead Mrs C and Mr K to believe they would get the MEP 
rate. And although in this case the exchange rate Revolut used wasnt as good as what 
other companies were able to offer at the time, I think there will be times when Revoluts rate 
is better and Im afraid this may be just a case of you win some, you lose some.   
Mr K says Revolut failed to contact him to inform him that it does not operate the MEP rate 
after the first transaction. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Revolut to 
contact every customer after they transact to inform them what rates it doesnt operate. And 
Revolut has told us that customers are able to see exactly the exchange rate used for 
payment immediately after making the first payment.
So it follows I dont think Revolut mis-lead Mrs C and Mr K about the exchange rate it uses 
or treated them unfairly in applying the exchange rate it did  they were told of the rate that 
would be used when transacting and are not obliged to use any other rate. 
 So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mrs C and Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mrs C and Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman