DRN-4237173
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly refused to provide a 
full payment for losses suffered. And which they said they were told they were covered for 
under their travel insurance policy.
For ease of reading I will only refer to Mrs B in my decision.
What happened
In November 2022 Mrs B took out an insurance policy with IPA to cover her for a planned 
holiday to Australia from 30 January 2023 to 12 March 2023 to visit family. On her arrival she 
found that 100 bags hadnt been loaded onto the aircraft, including her own. Mrs B said she 
was led to expect shed get her baggage back within 24 hours. 
As Mrs B hadnt received her baggage within the 24 hours and didnt know its whereabouts, 
she called IPA on 02 February 2023. Mrs B wanted to know what she needed to do. Mrs B 
said she was told shed cover for baggage under her policy, up to £2,000 but she needed to 
provide proof of purchase. She was told to make the claim that day she needed the details of 
the amount she was claiming for. As Mrs B had only made some minimal purchases of 
clothing she didnt complete her claim. And she said based on what she was told she went 
on to purchase additional clothing to cover for her missing baggage. In total Mrs B spent 
$1522 Australian Dollars (AUD) which converts to around £800. Mrs B got her baggage back 
on 06 February 2023 so around seven days late. Mrs B claimed for her outlay under her 
insurance policy. 
IPA accepted the baggage was delayed for several days and settled the claim for the policy 
limit of £400. They said if Mrs Bs baggage had been permanently lost they would have 
considered the full cost to the maximum value of the policy limit (£2,000). But Mrs Bs 
baggage was only delayed and not lost, they said theyd settled the claim fairly.
Mrs B wasnt happy with IPAs response. She said she wouldnt have purchased the items 
except for the reassurance she was given when she called them. Shed rung the airport 
everyday for an update about her baggage as being without clothing for several days was 
very distressing. She wanted IPA to refund her the total amount shed had to pay out. She 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said IPA had applied the terms of Mrs Bs policy fairly by settling the claim 
for the policy benefit of £400 for delayed baggage. But said IPA should pay Mrs B a further 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience that had been caused by IPA in failing to clarify the 
policy terms when she called. He said this had led Mrs B to spend $1522 AUD in the 
understanding she would get this money back upon the settlement of her claim. 
Mrs B didnt agree, she said it wasnt her fault her baggage was delayed. She didnt think it 
was fair that shed the financial impact of having to buy replacement clothes as she hadnt 
planned to spend money on clothing during her holiday. She asked for an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, Ill explain why. 
Ive considered the claim made by Ms B under her insurance policy. My decision about the 
settlement of the claim is based on the policy conditions and whether the settlement reached 
by IPA adhered to these. But Ive also considered whether IPA in handling Mrs Bs claim has 
acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with her. 
Policy terms and conditions
The requirement to prove there is a valid claim under the contract is the responsibility of the 
policy holder. The travel insurance policy Mrs B had with IPA includes terms and conditions
explaining what it will and wont cover. Ive considered the policy wording. The section that 
applies to Mrs Bs claim is Section 4 - Personal belongings and money. And in the Table 
of Benefits under section four it clearly shows Baggage, and the policy limits for claims 
about baggage. As Mrs B had taken out the Gold cover option the table of benefits showed 
for baggage IPA would pay up to £2,000. 
But the policy goes on to quantify this benefit under single item, valuables, and delayed 
baggage. For delayed baggage it says:
Delayed baggage if lost in transit during the outward journey and not returned to you within 
12 hours (if the loss is permanent this will be deducted from your baggage allowance)
And shows that IPA for a claim for delayed baggage under the Gold cover would pay up to  
£400.
I can understand it must have been upsetting for Mrs B to discover after her financial outlay 
that as her baggage was delayed not lost there was a limit to the benefit shed receive. But  
its clear from the policy document that there is a difference in the policy limit for delayed 
baggage and lost baggage. And I dont think it would be appropriate for me to ignore this and 
make IPA settle Mrs Bs claim as a lost baggage claim as this wasnt what happened. So, 
Im satisfied that Mrs B had a valid claim for delayed baggage not lost baggage. And IPA has 
settled the delayed baggage claim for the policy limit of £400.
Customer service
Ive listened to the call Mrs B had with IPA on 02 February 2023. And although she uses the 
term lost on a couple of occasions its clear from the conversation that the issue is that 100 
bags hadnt been put on the flight. And that she was in regular contact with the airline for 
updates about her baggage. While IPA was correct in saying the policy limit for baggage was 
up to £2,000, they didnt go on to explain the other policy wording about single item, 
valuables or delayed baggage, and the policy limits for these. 
In the call Mrs B had said shed only made some minimal purchases whilst she was waiting 
to find out about her missing baggage. And I think it was being told that her policy covered 
her up to £2,000 that Mrs B was reassured that any further purchases would be covered by 
the policy. So, I can understand why she is frustrated by the adherence of the terms and conditions of her policy. I think if Mrs B had been told that the policy limit was £400, she 
probably wouldnt have bought the items she did. 
So while I agree that IPA has settled Mrs Bs claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
her policy. I think IPAs poor customer service in failing to explain the policy terms and 
conditions when Mrs B sought their help has caused Mrs B distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
My role is to make a fair and objective assessment of the impact IPAs actions had on
Mrs B and to decide a fair and reasonable level of compensation. It isnt in the remit of this
service to punish businesses for poor service. And Ive taken into account that Mrs B did get 
her baggage back, and she has the benefit, whether she chooses to use them or not, of the 
purchases that she made. So, I think its fair and reasonable for IPA to pay Mrs B £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience their poor customer service has caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mrs B and Mr B £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by their poor customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman