DRN-2489375
The complaint
Mr S, in his capacity as trustee of a trust K, has complained about the investment advice 
the trustees received from Hunter Mills Limited since 2010.
What happened
In 2005 a discretionary gift trust was set up to hold a Capital and Income Bond provided by 
OMW, in which £100,000 had been invested. The late Mrs A was the main trustee until she 
passed away in 2013, when Mr and Mrs S were nominated as the continuing trustees.
In 2010 a new risk assessment was carried out, resulting in a change to the trustees attitude 
to risk. For this reason, the adviser recommended a switch to the Spectrum 4 fund.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs S raised concerns about the bond performance and asked for 
information from Hunter Mills about this. This was provided and Hunter Mills agreed to 
provide USCAN reports on a six monthly basis to help them compare the performance of 
the bond with a benchmark.
Following a change in the make-up of the fund, the investment in Spectrum 4 was sold in 
July 2018 and the funds were reinvested in what is now known as the BMO MM Lifestyle 4 
fund. This prompted Mr and Mrs S to question whether the investment in this fund had ever 
been suitable for the trust.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs S complained about the investment advice the trustees received from 
Hunter Mills since 2010. They didnt think the investment in the Spectrum 4 fund was ever 
suitable for the trust as it was too low risk. They also felt that Hunter Mills didnt monitor or 
manage the Spectrum 4 investment adequately. Mr and Mrs S also raised the following 
concerns about Hunter Mills conduct:
a reluctance to communicate when concerns were raised;
a failure to provide information  specifically USCAN reports as previously agreed;
a failure to provide information about the Spectrum 4 fund that they deemed pertinent 
to their decision making around the investments.
Mr and Mrs S asked for compensation for the poor performance, suggesting a benchmark 
the performance of the bond should be compared to. They also asked for compensation for 
the unnecessary anxiety caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think we could consider the complaint 
about the advice provided to invest in the Spectrum 4 fund because this had been made too 
late under the regulators rules. The investigator didnt think Hunter Mills had failed to 
provide suitable advice in the ensuing reviews but he accepted it had failed to provide the 
USCAN reports throughout this time. However, he didnt think Hunter Mills needed to do 
anything to put this right as Mr and Mrs S couldve requested the USCAN reports if they 
were still needed.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept this so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
I reviewed the complaint but explained to both sides that I intended to reach a different 
outcome. In summary, I said:
I didnt think the trustees complaint about the advice provided in 2010 was time-
barred. I accepted that Mr S raised concerns about the performance of the bond in 
October 2014 following the review meeting. However, the adviser explained that the 
bond was performing above the sector average, with evidence to support this. 
I thought Mr S had been reassured by this. So, I didn't think the trustees had any 
grounds to question the suitability of the investment recommended in 2010 at that 
time as the adviser reassured the trustees that the bond was performing as 
expected. 
Although I thought this aspect of the complaint had been made in time, I didnt intend 
to uphold it. I said I thought the fund recommended in 2010 largely met the trust's 
objective at the time, based on the asset classes that made up the fund.
I had concerns about the advice provided to the trustees from July 2015 onwards. 
I thought it was clear that Hunter Mills was providing ongoing advice to the trust - the 
terminology used in the file notes and letters issued to the trustees reflected this. 
I said that by August 2015 I thought the adviser ought to have recognised the need to 
switch funds as Mr and Mrs S were still concerned about the performance.
I intended to recommend that a comparison should be made between the fund value 
on 26 August 2015 if it had been invested differently (using a benchmark) and the 
value of the fund on 26 July 2018 when the investment was switched. I said any 
difference should be brought up to date and paid to the trust.
I didnt intend to uphold any other aspects of the trustees complaint.
Hunter Mills didnt agree. It maintained the Spectrum 4 fund was suitable for the trust and 
said in 2015 and 2016 Mr and Mrs S were happy for the bond to remain invested in this fund 
despite knowing about the poor performance of it. Hunter Mills also said that the 
performance of the bond improved in 2016 and overall there had been no loss.
I maintained my view that the adviser ought to have recommended a switch in August 2015. 
I said it was possible that the calculation would produce no loss, but I still thought this was a 
fair resolution to the complaint. I shared my thoughts and Hunter Mills responses with 
Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S had some concerns about the redress calculation  Mr S in particular didnt 
think the correct benchmark had been used. He thought a simple comparison with the FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income Return Index was more appropriate because the assets in it 
were more reflective of the level of risk the trustees wanted to take. Mr and Mrs S 
questioned how they could be sure the calculation would be carried out correctly. They also 
said they would feel cheated if no compensation was paid. Mr and Mrs S thought that the 
implication was that I thought Hunter Mills should have moved the bond in to a higher risk 
fund, so given the general market conditions during the period they presumed it wouldve 
been worth quite a bit more. Mr and Mrs S also said they thought their complaint about the 
lack of information provided should be upheld because it would be an incentive for advisers 
to be more transparent with their clients in the future.
As Ive received both responses to my provisional thoughts on the complaint, Im now 
providing my final decision on the matter.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The trustees have provided a great deal of detail in connection with this complaint. Ive read 
and considered all of the submissions carefully, but the purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every single point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by the 
trustees and Hunter Mills and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome based on 
the facts of the case. So, I hope that the trustees dont take as a discourtesy the fact my 
findings below focus on what I consider to be the central issues to their complaint. 
 
Suitability of Spectrum 4 fund
Ive reviewed the available paperwork from the time of the advice to determine whether the 
recommendation that the trust invest in the Spectrum 4 fund was suitable.
The evidence Ive seen shows that a risk profile questionnaire was completed on 
5 August 2010 by the late Mrs A, who was the lead trustee. This records the following 
information:
the trustees intended to hold on to the investment for five years plus;
the trustees expected the income of the trust to keep pace with inflation;
to achieve higher long-term returns, the trustees were prepared to tolerate 
reasonable levels of volatility;
the trustees would not be comfortable with losses of more than 10%;
the trustees were unlikely to take more risk to improve returns.
This assessment produced a risk rating of four out of ten, which is the equivalent of a low-
medium attitude to risk.
On this basis, the adviser recommended the Spectrum 4 fund. Ive seen a copy of the fund 
factsheet from July 2010 which shows the following approximate asset weighting:
Fixed interest  49%
UK Equities  19%
International Equities  9%
European Equities  4%
Property  18%
Money Market  1%
The factsheet states that the fund had a volatility rating of four out of ten and described its 
objective as follows:
The underlying fund aims to achieve long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified 
range of asset classes. The risk profile of the underlying fund is a moderately defensive 
portfolio with a majority in investments in defensive asset classes, and between 25% and 
50% in equities.
It isnt my role to risk rate this fund. But based on the trustees attitude to risk and the make 
up of the Spectrum 4 fund, I think the investment was suitable for the trust. The fund was 
balanced, with around half weighted in favour of fixed-interest securities and the other half 
exposed to higher risk investments such as equities and property. So, I think this met the trusts objective of achieving long-term growth above inflation, without subjecting the trust 
assets to too much risk. 
Ongoing advice provided
 
Hunter Mills gave ongoing advice to the trustees, and this was provided at annual reviews. 
Mr and Mrs S say that they started to have concerns about the performance of the bond in 
October 2014. Ive seen a copy of an email Mr S sent to the adviser on 22 October 2014 
expressing concern about the performance of it. The adviser replied on the same day, 
attaching a USCAN report and explained the Spectrum 4 fund was performing above the 
sector average. Mr S replied on 28 October 2014 saying that the information provided gave 
him reassurance that the performance of the bond was consistent with similar investments. 
Mr S asked if this sort of information could be provided every six months. The adviser replied 
on 29 October 2014 saying he had diarised the reviews to take place every six months as 
requested, in January and July.
The next review was due in January 2015. Hunter Mills records show this took place in 
February 2015 at a meeting. The file note records that Mr S was still unhappy with the 
Spectrum 4 performance, but had decided to give it another six months to see if the 
performance improved before doing anything.
At this point I think its important to highlight that the adviser was aware from October 2014 
that Mr S had concerns with the performance of the bond. And, despite the reassurance 
provided at the time, the file note from the review in February 2015 shows that Mr Ss 
concern about the bond performance remained. That the bond was performing as expected, 
should've, in my view, prompted the adviser to question whether the trust's objectives and/or 
attitude to risk had changed. The last risk assessment was performed in 2010 with the late 
Mrs A, who passed away in 2013. So, I think this would've been a good opportunity for the 
adviser to undertake a new risk assessment. However, the note from February 2015 says 
that the trusts original objective remained  returns above inflation was still the key target for 
this investment. And the note from February 2015 said Mr S was prepared to wait another 
six months to see if the performance improved. So, I dont think any changes ought to have 
been made at this point.
 
However, I think a change ought to have been recommended at the August 2015 review. It 
appears the adviser produced some data relating to the trust's investments - this included 
the key policy details and comments on the performance over the last five years. The 
adviser noted the following:
 
"Client has been in Spectrum 4 for 5 years. This portfolio has not performed well against 
benchmark. Alternatives would be..."
 
The adviser then noted three funds he had identified which I assume would've met the trust's 
risk appetite but had been performing well compared with the Spectrum 4 fund. However, 
despite Mr S raising very specific concerns about performance, it doesn't appear the adviser 
shared that information with the trustees. Only a file note was left, which doesn't say whether 
or not this information was shared. And no letter was sent to follow this up, outlining the 
performance against the benchmark and the suggested alternatives.
 
The file note also states that the adviser had not recommended any change in fund. I don't 
understand how that conclusion was arrived at given the adviser had identified the fund was 
performing worse than the benchmark, which Mr S had clearly expressed a concern over. 
The rationale appears to be that the fund still met the trust's objective and attitude to 
risk. However, as above, the risk assessment was five years' out of date and the trustee had 
also made it clear he expected more. Given this I think the adviser ought to have recommended a fund switch to one of the listed alternatives at this point, or at the very least, 
highlighted the disparity in the performance between the fund and the benchmark so that 
Mr and Mrs S could make an informed choice. Had the adviser done this, I'm satisfied they 
would have agreed to a switch as they were already unhappy with the performance of the 
bond.
Hunter Mills says that it provided annual review summary documents to Mr and Mrs S, 
showing that three alternative fund choices were recommended to them. The file note from 
August 2015 states they were happy to remain invested in the Spectrum 4 fund. However, 
the documents Hunter Mills has referred to as 'annual review summary documents' appear 
to be the adviser's notes - they refer to the clients in the abstract. So, I don't think that 
Mr and Mrs S would've had sight of them. The only tangible record of the meeting is the file 
note and this does not mention any of the alternative funds or how the existing fund had 
performed against the benchmark. And although Hunter Mills has said alternative funds were 
recommended to Mr and Mrs S in August 2015, that is not supported by the evidence. The 
file note explicitly says the adviser had not recommended a fund change.
Hunter Mills has said that the funds did not belong to Mr and Mrs S - they were trust funds. 
But as the remaining trustees, they had a right and obligation to manage the investments for 
the benefit of the beneficiaries and the trust's risk appetite may well have changed over time.
Hunter Mills has pointed to Mr and Mrs S being aware of poor performance in 2015/2016 
and opting to continue. However, Mr and Mrs S were being given advice and they were 
entitled to rely on that advice as being suitable for the trust's needs. They were reassured 
that the existing fund was suitable for them, despite the poor performance, because of 
market conditions. So I don't think it is reasonable to have expected them to go against the 
advice they were being given.
Ultimately, in 2015 the adviser identified that the fund had been performing lower than the 
benchmark, which was a key concern for Mr and Mrs S. The adviser identified better 
performing funds that would've met the trust's needs. However, I don't think this information 
was shared with Mr and Mrs S. If it had been, I'm satisfied they would have acted upon it at 
this time.
 
Although I think a switch should've been arranged in August 2015, I also think it's worth 
commenting on the advice provided in 2016 and 2017. Despite the adviser highlighting the 
poor performance, in my view he passed the responsibility to decide what to do next to the 
trustees, saying if they were prepared to remain in the fund then they need not take any 
action. I dont think this constitutes advice. I'm not surprised that Mr and Mrs S remained 
invested in the fund as long as they did, given the absence of any clear advice or 
recommendations from the adviser until 2018, who they relied on for his expertise. I accept 
that Mr and Mrs S had investment experience, but I dont think that means they were not 
entitled to receive advice from the adviser, particularly when they were paying a fee of 1% 
per year for this service.
Hunter Mills has also said that I have acknowledged the fund performance improved in 2016 
and 2017, which undermines my view that a fund switch shouldve been recommended in 
2015. But when looking at the advice provided in August 2015, I cannot use the benefit of 
hindsight. That the fund performance improved doesnt, in my view, impact the fact that a 
switch should have been recommended in 2015. As Ive said, its possible that because of 
the improved performance, there will be no loss when the comparison calculation is carried 
out.Hunter Mills says it isnt fair to require it to calculate redress to date as the funds are no 
longer under its control. But this is a misunderstanding of the redress calculation I require 
Hunter Mills to undertake. The comparison between the actual position and the fair position 
stops on 26 July 2018. It is only the difference between those positions (if there is a 
difference at all) that should be brought up to date. This is because if there is a loss, that 
extra sum would've been available to invest to date, so the trust needs to be compensated 
for this. I am not asking Hunter Mills to make the comparison between the two positions to 
date because, as it says, the funds aren't under its control now. 
Mr S is concerned that the benchmark that Ive recommended the performance of the bond 
should be compared to (for redress purposes) isnt suitable. He says I have determined that 
the trusts risk appetite had changed, so a different benchmark (the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index) should be used instead.
I wish to make it clear that I havent made a finding that the trustees risk appetite had 
changed in 2015. Rather, I wanted to highlight to Hunter Mills that it would have been 
appropriate for the adviser to carry out a new attitude to risk assessment at that time, given 
the last assessment had taken place five years ago. I havent seen enough evidence to say 
that the trustees attitude to risk had changed in 2015. I appreciate Mr S says that he and 
Mrs S wanted to take more risk with the funds  but if that were the case I wouldve expected 
this to have been brought to the advisers attention. It is evident that they wanted better 
performance, but Im not persuaded that they would have wanted to take more risk with the 
trust funds to achieve this. Instead, I think it wouldve been reasonable to switch their 
investment to a different fund, still in line with their low-medium attitude to risk, as there were 
alternatives identified by the adviser which were performing better than the Spectrum 4 fund. 
The benchmark Ive said should be used for comparison (set out below) is the appropriate 
benchmark to use for the trustees low-medium attitude to risk.
 
Communication
Mr and Mrs S have complained about what they perceive to be a reluctance on Hunter Mills 
part to communicate with them about the investments when concerns were raised. They are 
also unhappy that Hunter Mills failed to provide them with USCAN reports at the six monthly 
reviews as agreed in 2014. Mr and Mrs S have also complained that Hunter Mills didnt tell 
them that the Spectrum 4 fund had been revamped in 2016 with the fund manager having 
been replaced. They add that all of the poor service caused unnecessary anxiety.
Ive reviewed the communication between Mr S and Hunter Mills following the concerns  
raised in 2018. I understand that Mr S feels Hunter Mills didnt address his concerns in the 
same level of detail he provided, but overall I think Hunter Mills responded appropriately to 
the concerns raised, including arranging a meeting to discuss the matter.
I accept that Hunter Mills didnt provide USCAN reports to the trustees at their reviews as 
agreed in October 2014. However, as this wouldnt usually form part of the annual review 
service, I can see how it could be overlooked. In any event, I wouldve expected Mr and 
Mrs S to remind Hunter Mills of its agreement to provide the USCAN reports if they were still 
required. That they didnt raise this issue until 2018 suggests they were not urgently 
required. So, even though the service Hunter Mills provided fell short here, I dont think it 
needs to pay compensation.
Hunter Mills explained that the fund manager of the Spectrum 4 fund was replaced but this 
didnt affect the suitability of the fund. I appreciate Mr S feels this information ought to have 
been shared with them and they say they wouldve taken action if theyd known about it. But 
I dont think it was necessary for Hunter Mills to explain this to them. In any event, I have found that Hunter Mills shouldve recommended the trust switch funds in August 2015. So, 
this issue is no longer relevant as I think they would have disinvested from the fund before 
the fund manager was changed.
Mr and Mrs S have asked for a significant amount of compensation for the anxiety caused. 
But it appears this was largely experienced by Mr S in the process of pursuing the complaint, 
rather than because of any wrongdoing by Hunter Mills. And in any event, I cannot award 
compensation directly to Mr S  the complaint has been brought here on behalf of the trust. 
I can only award compensation for the impact of any wrongdoing on Hunter Mills part on the 
trust, not Mr S personally. I have identified that the trustees shouldve been advised to switch 
funds in August 2015, so the appropriate compensation would be a comparison of 
performance had the switch gone ahead, as per the calculation below. I dont think any 
additional compensation is warranted in the circumstances.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the 
trust as close to the position it would probably now be in if the trustees had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I think the trustees would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
the trustees would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given the trust's circumstances and objectives when the trustees invested.
 
For the purpose of this calculation, 26 August 2015 should be used as the investment "start 
date". This is because the review took place on 19 August 2015 so I have allowed a week 
for a switch to take place. The "end date" is 26 July 2018, the date on which the fund was 
switched to the F&C MM Lifestyle Defensive fund, now known as the BMO MM Lifestyle 4 
fund.
 
What should Hunter Mills do?
To compensate the trust fairly, Hunter Mills must:
Compare the performance of the trust's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If compensation is payable, this extra sum would've been available to invest from 
26 July 2018. Although I know the trust's funds were switched to the BMO MM 
Lifestyle 4 fund, I'm aware that the trust has engaged the service of a new financial 
adviser, so I think it's likely the fund has been switched again since then. So, to make 
the calculation simpler, the compensation should be brought up to date in line with 
the benchmark below from 26 July 2018 to the date of my final decision.
Hunter Mills should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any 
interest awarded. 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
OMW Bondstill 
existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
my final 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of decision 
to date of settlement 
(if compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being 
notified of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Hunter Mills 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
The trustees wanted capital growth with a small risk to the trust's capital. The 
average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to the trust's capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that the trust's risk profile was in between, in the sense that the trustees 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain the trust's investment objectives. 
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put the trust into that position. It does 
not mean that the trustees would have invested 50% of the trust's money in a fixed 
rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return the trustees could 
have obtained from investments suited to the trust's objective and risk attitude.  
A copy of Hunter Mills calculations should be provided to Mr and Mrs S.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. I direct Hunter Mills Limited to 
pay compensation as set out above.
Hunter Mills Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs S in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the trustees of K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman