DRN-4437885
Complaint
Mrs W complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with her. Shes said the payments to her agreement were unaffordable 
and this resulted in her parents having to pay the agreement and take the vehicle. 
Background
In May 2014, MotoNovo provided Mrs W with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £10,782.98. Mrs W received a part-exchange value of £500 and entered into a 
hire-purchase agreement with MotoNovo to cover the remaining £10,282.98. 
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £5,026.02 (comprising of interest of 
£4,726.02, an administration fee of £150 and an option to purchase fee of £150), and the 
total amount to be repaid of £15,309.00 (not including Mrs Ws part-exchange value) was 
due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £252.65 and 1 final monthly instalment of 
£402.65. 
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
MotoNovo had done anything wrong or treated Mrs W unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs W disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mrs Ws complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
MotoNovo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that MotoNovo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mrs W could make him payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to him. 
And if the checks MotoNovo carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Given the length of time has passed MotoNovo, quite understandably in the circumstances, 
cant provide the data to demonstrate what its checks showed at the time of this application. 
Nonetheless it says it would only have agreed to this application after its systems completed 
an income and expenditure assessment on Mrs W. During this assessment, its systems 
would have considered information from credit reference agencies and must have concluded 
that Mrs W could meet the payments as the agreement was approved.  
On the other hand, Mrs W says that she couldnt have afforded this agreement and shouldnt 
have been provided with it.
Ive thought about what Mrs W and MotoNovo have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont have any records at all of what MotoNovos credit 
search is likely to have shown. I say this as Mrs W hasnt been able to provide a copy of her 
credit file from this time either. I appreciate that credit reports only tend to go back six years. 
But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to draw adverse inferences against MotoNovo 
in circumstances where Mrs W complained at a time where it is no longer required to hold 
this information. 
Nonetheless and regardless of the lack of evidence on the checks, much like our 
investigator, I dont think that what MotoNovo has described did go far enough. In my view, 
MotoNovo would have needed to get an understanding of Mrs Ws actual living costs, given 
the amount lent, the total cost of the agreement and the monthly payments. What it has 
described doesnt suggest that it obtained this. 
As MotoNovo is unlikely to have carried out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I 
think MotoNovo is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from 
Mrs W based on the information that Mrs W has now provided. As Ive explained bearing in 
mind the circumstances here, I would have expected MotoNovo to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Mrs Ws regular living expenses as well as her income and existing 
credit commitments. 
To be clear Im not going to carry out a forensic analysis of Mrs Ws bank statements to 
establish whether the loan payments were affordable for her. Im simply going to try and 
recreate what MotoNovo is likely to have done if it had an idea of Mrs Ws living expenses 
bearing in mind that bank statements werent the only way for it to find out this information. I 
say this because this information provided does appear to show that when Mrs Ws 
committed regular living expenses and credit commitments are deducted from the funds she 
received, it looks like she had the funds to make the repayments. 
Mrs W has referred to her overdraft usage. But its clear that her discretionary spend, which 
MotoNovo wouldnt have been expected to take account of, is in part responsible for this too. 
So, in my view, MotoNovo was more likely that not to have concluded that Mrs W could 
sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mrs Ws actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information shes provided shows. I know that she says that she felt pressured 
to buy this car as her previous one had to be returned to the dealer as faulty. But that 
doesnt explain the cost of her subsequent vehicle and the amount of her purchase. And, in 
any event, MotoNovo would simply have assessed whether the payments were affordable not what happened with Mrs Ws previous car. If Mrs W is unhappy with the quality of her 
previous vehicle this is a matter she needs to take up with the dealer and it is not relevant to 
the affordability of this agreement.
For the sake of completeness, its probably also worth me explaining that even though I dont 
agree that MotoNovo did do anything wrong here, as Mrs W says her parents took over the 
payments for the agreement as well as custody of the vehicle, its difficult for me to see what 
loss Mrs W suffered here. I say this because we are a number of years since the agreement 
was taken and Mrs W says that her parents made the payments because she could not do 
so. Given Im required to compensate for a customers loss, should a firm have done 
something wrong, I dont see what loss I would compensate Mrs W for here. Ultimately 
based on what Mrs W says another party ended up making payments not Mrs W. 
  
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available information indicates that 
MotoNovo is likely to conclude that Mrs W did have sufficient funds left over, once her 
regular living expenses and discernible committed expenditure was deducted from her 
monthly income, to make her monthly payments in a sustainable manner. As this is the case, 
Im not persuaded that MotoNovo didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mrs W here.
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not necessarily satisfied that 
MotoNovos checks before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mrs W did go far 
enough, nonetheless what has been provided leads me to think MotoNovo carrying out 
reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented it from providing these funds, or 
entering into this hire-purchase agreement with Mrs W. 
So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for           
Mrs W. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel 
her concerns have been listened to even though Ive ultimately not agreed with them.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman