DRN-3731368
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) declined a part of her travel insurance claim.
What happened
Ms W took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 24 January 2020 to cover a
two-month trip to Asia and Australia. The policy was underwritten by Mapfre.
Along with associated travel costs, Ms W booked her trip using two tour providers, who I will
call S and T for the purposes of this decision. She departed on 9 February 2020 and started
her tour with S on 11 February 2020. On 10 March 2020, Ms S was denied entry to one of
the countries due to restrictions introduced by the countrys government in response to the
escalation of the Covid-19 pandemic. At this point, Ms Ws entire trip had to be cut short and 
the tour with S hadnt been fully completed either.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a pandemic,
and on 17 March 2020 the UKs Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), now the Foreign,
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), advised against all but essential travel
abroad.
Ms W returned to the UK on 18 March 2020. She submitted a claim with Mapfre for the
following:
Her return flight to the UK.
The unused portion of the tour with S.
The full cost of her unused tour with T.
Additional accommodation costs.
An unused internal flight cost.
Additional baggage costs.
A pair of sunglasses that were lost/stolen.
Mapfre responded and settled the claim for the following:
Additional accommodation costs.
The unused internal flight cost.
Baggage costs.
Mapfre declined the claim for the following:
Return flight to the UK because Ms W hadnt previously purchased a return flight so 
this cost wouldnt be covered under the policy.
The cost of the unused portion of the tour with S and the unused cost of the tour with 
T because Ms W had received a credit from the providers for the tours to be used at 
a future date. Mapfre said therefore the cost of the tours were seen to be recoverable 
and this wasnt covered under the policy.
The cost of the glasses.
Unhappy with Mapfre, Ms W raised a complaint but didnt receive a final response within the 
expected eight weeks, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator initially partially upheld the complaint as Mapfre hadnt provided any of the
requested information. She said the cost of the return flight to the UK wasnt
covered under the policy. And, she said Mapfres decline in regard to the claim for the tours
and the sunglasses hadnt been evidenced, therefore these items had been declined 
unfairly. So, she recommended Mapfre settle the claim for these costs.
Our investigator also recommended that Mapfre pay Ms W compensation of £150 for the
distress and inconvenience caused for the delays and the lack of communication during the
course of the claim-handling and the poor service received.
On 25 May 2022, Mapfre responded. It didnt agree with the investigators findings and said
regarding the credit vouchers provided from the tour providers that it would require
confirmation that they have either now offered a refund or are redacting their offer of the
voucher. It also provided a copy of Ms Ws policy document.
Our investigator followed up with her further findings to both parties. She partially upheld the
complaint, but her reasons were slightly different.
She said under the terms and conditions of Ms Ws policy, the cost of the tours had been
seen to be recoverable. She thought these werent unreasonably restrictive and didnt think
this part of the claim had been declined unfairly by Mapfre.
She recommended the claim for the sunglasses be considered in line with the terms and
conditions of Ms Ws policy. And, she remained of the opinion that Ms W had received poor
service in the way the claim had been handled and said she recommended Mapfre pay
Ms W £150 compensation.
Mapfre responded and accepted the investigators findings.
Ms W didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So, its been
passed to me. In summary, Ms W said the following:
Her circumstances havent been considered.
The trip she booked was in between her finishing her masters degree and starting a 
job and full-time career. The trip had been funded from an inheritance shed received.
The trip didnt transpire into what shed intended, and her situation is now completely 
different whereby shes entered into a career and its not feasible to leave this to take 
advantage of the credit vouchers from the tour providers. Her job role and contract 
have limitations.
In order to make use of the credit vouchers, she would have to travel a distance and 
she cannot take the time off for so many days that the tours have included within 
them. The tours were purchased when she was intending to go travelling for a few 
months which shes now unable to do.
She would either have to leave her job to go travelling again or stay in the job and 
lose the money she paid for the tours in 2020.
While the vouchers have been extended, there is no possibility for her to travel in the 
way she had intended in February 2020.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 September 2022 and I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair andreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance set out by the regulator say an insurer should handle claims
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules and guidance into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Ws
complaint.
Was the claim covered by the cancellation and cutting short your holiday section of the
policy?
Ive first turned to consider the terms and conditions of Ms Ws policy, as these form the
basis of her contract with Mapfre.
Page 18 of the policy booklet sets out the terms for whats covered when a trip is cancelled
or cut short. This says:
A - Cancelling and cutting short your holiday
What you are covered for
If you have to cancel or cut short your holiday because of one of the reasons listed
below we will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on pages 5 and 6
for:
Travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to
pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local
prepaid excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid
cancelling or cutting short your trip; and
Reasonable extra travel costs if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cutting
short your trip.
The following are reasons we will accept for you cancelling or cutting short your trip:
9. You cannot commence travel to your intended destination due to the (FCO)
Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice for your destination/location
changing to as a minimum all but essential travel after the purchase of your
policy or after the booking of any individual trip, whichever is the latter. This also 
applies to where such FCO advice changes are announced after you
have commenced your trip/holiday.
Based on the above, advice from the FCO against all but essential travel is listed as a
reason for cancelling and cutting short a holiday.
In this case, theres no dispute that at the time Ms W was travelling, there was FCO advice
against all but essential travel abroad. Ive seen copies of the bookings made so Im satisfied
they were all made. It seems to me therefore the claim falls within the scope of this cover.
Claim for cost of the tours
The issue in this case is that Mapfre says it declines the claim because the cost of the tours
was shown to be recoverable.
So, in common with most (if not all) travel insurance policies on the market, Ms Ws policy
doesnt provide cover for costs that can be recovered from elsewhere.I can see Ms W was offered a credit voucher from S which has been extended and is now
valid until 31 March 2024. And, Ive also seen confirmation from T which says the credit
voucher was offered and has now been extended until 31 December 2024.
Generally, unless the terms of a credit voucher are unreasonably restrictive and/or a
consumer has exceptional circumstances; Id consider a credit voucher to mean the
policyholder has recovered their costs from elsewhere.
However, in the circumstances of Ms Ws case, she has provided evidence to show the
credit vouchers are particularly limiting and why it isnt possible for her to use the vouchers.
Shes explained that the trip was a one-off and one she planned in between her masters
degree and starting a career. The trip she had to cut short was planned for two months and
her situation has now changed which means that she cant take the time off work and she
cant leave either. Ms W has provided information which shows that her employer only
allows annual leave for a maximum of two weeks. And, if she wanted to take more leave, it
would be on a case by case basis. And, even if she wanted to take more than two weeks,
she couldnt take two months off and isnt in a position financially to do this. She explained
that its not possible for her to take the trip in the way she had intended in February 2020.
Ive seen evidence of the communication between Ms W and tour providers. Theres nothing
in this which suggests the vouchers are transferrable and, even if they were, Ms W says
she has no-one who would want to take two months off and go on those specific tours. I
think, therefore, in the specific circumstances of this case, the terms are restrictive to Ms W
as it wasnt an ordinary, one- or two-week trip that shed booked but a one-off.
Taking everything into account, and in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it
was reasonable for Mapfre to consider the offer of the credit vouchers from the tour
providers as meaning Ms W had recovered her costs from elsewhere. In any event, Im
satisfied, from what she has told us, that its highly unlikely Ms W will ever be able to use the
vouchers in the way they had been intended. While the credit vouchers have expiry dates of
31 March 2024 and 31 December 2024, I cant see that they are transferrable. And even if
they were, its unlikely anyone would be able to use them in the way they were intended and
for the time period that was originally set for their use.
Additionally, my understanding is that Ms W has taken all reasonable steps to mitigate her
other losses from her bank but has been unsuccessful in doing so.
Im satisfied therefore that Ms Ws claim for the cost of the tours has been declined unfairly
by Mapfre. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Mapfre to
accept Ms Ws claim for these, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, minus any
excess.
Claim for sunglasses
Ms W submitted a claim for sunglasses which she says were taken from her bag. Our
investigator recommended in her findings that Mapfre ought to assess the claim under the
relevant terms and conditions of the policy as this has never been responded to. Mapfre
accepted the investigators findings and therefore, it should, if it hasnt already done so,
assess the claim for Ms Ws lost/stolen sunglasses.
Claim for return flight to the UK
Ms W has said our investigator failed to address the issue that Mapfre has declined to
provide cover for the cost of the return flight to the UK.I dont agree that our investigator failed to address this. She explained that she didnt think it
was fair for Mapfre to cover this aspect of the claim as she never paid for a return flight to
the UK. The flight wasnt pre-booked and paid for and therefore under the terms and
conditions of the policy, there is no cover for this. This is a cost that Ms W would always
have had to pay for when she returned to the UK regardless of whether she had to cut her
trip short or not.
Im satisfied therefore that Mapfre hasnt unfairly declined the claim for the cost of the return
flight. I dont require Mapfre to do anything further on this aspect of the claim.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
I agree with our investigator that £150 compensation should be paid to Ms W for the poor
service Mapfre has provided in the handling of her claim. I think this is fair and reasonable
and I note that Mapfre has also accepted this finding and recommendation from our 
investigator.
Conclusion
In all the circumstances of the complaint, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mapfre to
accept Ms Ws claim for the tours under the cancellation and cutting short her trip section of
the policy subject to the policy terms and conditions.
I also think the claim for sunglasses ought to be assessed in line with the relevant policy
terms and conditions.
I agree that £150 compensation is fair and reasonable for the poor service Mapfre provided.
And, finally, I dont think the claim for the return flight to the UK has been declined unfairly by
Mapfre and so it doesnt need to anything further on this aspect.
Mapfre needs to put things right and do the following:
Accept Ms Ws cancellation/cutting the trip short claim, subject to any applicable 
policy excesses and/or limits, together with any interest at 8% simple per annum from 
the date of the claim until the date the settlement is paid.
Assess the claim for Ms Ws lost/stolen sunglasses as per the terms and conditions 
of the relevant section of the policy.
Pay £150 compensation.
If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms W how much it has taken off. It should also 
give Ms W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Ms W responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
Mapfre responded and said if the voucher lasts until March and December of 2024 (18 and 
27 months away), Ms W should confirm with absolute certainty that the vouchers will not be 
used in that time. The vouchers are still in effect until these dates which seems unfair as her 
circumstances may change in that time.  This would mean Ms W could have a refund and 
make use of the vouchers simultaneously. As previously advised, Mapfre said it had agreed 
to consider this part if the vouchers were rescinded, which does not seem unreasonable.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further comments that Mapfre has provided. 
It says the vouchers would still be available to Ms W for use and she still has enough time 
left on them for her to be able to use them in the future. This would mean Ms W would have 
a refund and make use of the vouchers simultaneously. Mapfre also says, as previously 
advised, it had agreed to consider this part of the claim if the vouchers were rescinded by 
the providers, which doesnt seem unreasonable.
I appreciate Mapfres comments and Ive considered these carefully. Ive provided the 
reasons in my provisional decision as to why my intention was to partially uphold the 
complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
For completeness, however Ill summarise what I think as Mapfres response to me refers to 
the point regarding the vouchers offered by the tour providers. 
I understand Mapfres comments that the tour providers havent rescinded their offers of the 
vouchers. And that they have extended the dates by which they can be used. However, 
Ms W has gone as far as providing evidence from both the tour providers that their offer of 
the credit vouchers has been rescinded. So, Ms W can no longer use these vouchers and 
she has shown evidence that theyve been cancelled by both tour providers. 
Going back to the reasons provided in my provisional decision for partially upholding the 
complaint, Im satisfied that Ms W wont benefit from the potential use of the vouchers as 
well as the settlement of the claim.  In Ms Ws specific circumstances, I dont think it was 
reasonable for Mapfre to consider the offer of the credit vouchers from the tour providers as 
meaning Ms W had recovered her costs from the tour providers. I think Ms Ws 
circumstances are exceptional. Ms W explained that her circumstances meant that it was 
highly unlikely she would be able to use the vouchers for the time period they were intended 
or be able to take a longer trip as she has started a job which doesnt allow leave longer than 
two weeks and these are only approved in exceptional circumstances. She has provided 
evidence of this and Im satisfied that she has shown the trip for a longer period and to a 
further distance isnt feasible in her circumstances.
As Ive said above, Im satisfied, from what Ms W has told us, that its highly unlikely she was 
ever going to be able to use the vouchers in the way they had been intended. But, in addition 
to that, shes provided further evidence that the vouchers are no longer open for her use at a 
future date and that theyve been cancelled.
In all the circumstances of the complaint, therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Mapfre to accept Ms Ws claim for the tours under the cancellation and cutting short her trip 
section of the policy subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Putting things right
Mapfre needs to put things right and do the following:
Accept Ms Ws cancellation/cutting the trip short claim, subject to any applicable 
policy excesses and/or limits, together with any interest at 8% simple per annum from 
the date of the claim until the date the settlement is paid.
Assess the claim for Ms Ws lost/stolen sunglasses as per the terms and conditions of the relevant section of the policy.
Pay £150 compensation.
If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms W how much it has taken off. It should also 
give Ms W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Ws complaint against Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman