DRN-4249580
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his motor insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc as it has declined his 
claim made for theft of his vehicle. AXA said there were some discrepancies around the key 
Mr M provided, which meant it was unable to validate the claim. It then clarified that, in 
declining the claim, it was relying on the fraud condition in the policy. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr Ms car was stolen from the drive outside his house. He made a claim to 
AXA and it began investigating the matter, asking Mr M for his car keys. Mr M had one key  
hed been provided with two at purchase of the car, but said he lost the main key around 
April 2021. He sent AXA the remaining spare key, which he said he had then been using as 
the main key for around six months. Mr M, noting that the police had suspected a relay theft 
(where thieves use a device to steal a car) and that there was CCTV footage of the suspects 
available, was surprised when AXA declined his claim.
AXA wrote to Mr M in December 2021. It said there were some discrepancies surrounding 
the key he had provided. Notably its expert report (by company B) showed the key held no 
electronic data, so it seemed it couldnt be used to operate Mr Ms car. It asked Mr M if he 
had any explanation that might account for this. Mr M replied and AXA then, in 
January 2022, said it wouldnt be progressing his claim any further as it was unable to 
validate it (due to the issues with the key). When Mr M queried this further AXA said it had 
declined his claim on account of the fraud condition on the policy. Mr M said he didnt 
understand in what way AXA had felt he had acted fraudulently. AXA implied it was because 
of the problems with the key.
Mr M obtained a report from an automotive engineer D. D said the key/its data may have 
been compromised during or after the theft. AXA said that report didnt contain sufficient 
reasoning to show why the key held no data. AXA issued a final response in March 2022 
stating it was satisfied by its decision and if Mr M was unhappy with it, he could complain to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service  which he duly did.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. Mr M remained unhappy. He particularly 
queried our Investigators reliance on Bs key report  he said this report wasnt compliant 
with rules pertaining to evidence presented in court. Mr M said he felt Bs report cant, 
therefore, be relied upon at all. He noted that AXA has not provided a further report to 
challenge Ds findings. 
Mr Ms complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt it should be 
upheld, that AXA had unfairly accused Mr M of fraud and that it should further consider his 
claim. I issued a provisional decision to explain my views in this respect to both parties, 
along with my suggested redress, which included £500 compensation. My provisional 
findings, along with my comments about what I felt was needed to put things right, were: 
I know Mr M has concerns about Bs report. But I dont think I can fairly and reasonably 
dismiss it in its entirety. Not least as whilst it may not be compliant with court procedure rules 
(and I dont know if it is or not), it wouldnt have to be for consideration by this service. That 
is because we act as an informal alternative to the courts. 
I know Mr M is also concerned about the serious nature of the allegation levelled against him 
by AXA. Its entirely reasonable for him to be concerned. As AXA is likely aware the 
Financial Ombudsman Service acknowledges the serious nature of fraud allegations. This 
type of allegation can have significant impacts on and wide-reaching consequences for a 
policyholder. As such we expect an insurer, seeking to rely on such an allegation, to support 
it by relying on strong evidence. 
Its worth noting also that to show fraud has likely occurred an insurer doesnt just have to 
show that a policyholder has been untruthful about something. Although a policyholder 
should, of course, be open and honest with their insurer at all times. But fraud requires that 
a policyholder has to have been untruthful about something with an intent to gain something 
they arent otherwise entitled to receive under the policy. 
Ive considered the two expert reports available about the key. Both concur that it should 
contain vital data relevant to the car. But that it does not. Bs report does not say why that 
data might be missing. AXAs claim notes show that B, in a call with AXAs claim handler, 
said theres no reason to suspect the key had a fault and that if the car was stolen by means 
of a device that connects with the cars key, the key data wouldnt be wiped in that process. 
B also said though that the key data could be compromised by being subjected to microwave 
radiation. Further that the theft could have been perpetrated by means of a pick-pocket 
swapping keys with Mr M. AXA has not shown that it gathered any other expert evidence  
not even after having received Ds report.
Ds report is not conclusive about how or why the key contains no data. But it does explain 
that it might have happened during the theft, in transit or whilst being read. In respect of 
during the theft the report says all sorts of devices are used by thieves, and so a device 
causing damage to the key cant be ruled out. As far as I can see the engineer is suitably 
qualified to give expert opinion on this. And AXA hasnt obtained any expert advice in 
challenge of his views. Bs report didnt contain an assessment in this respect, and the 
comments from B in its call with AXA are brief. I dont think AXA has presented sufficiently 
strong evidence to support a finding of fraud.  
I also note though that AXAs file shows its claim handler spoke to a loss adjuster AXA had 
appointed to assist it with the claim. As noted in my background above, there is CCTV 
footage available from the time of the theft. The CCTV footage does not show the theft itself. 
But it does show the vicinity of Mr Ms property, two men approaching Mr Ms home and one 
running back past sometime later, putting something away in a bag as Mr Ms car also drives 
past. The loss adjuster had seen this footage and told AXA that, in his opinion the car was 
likely not stolen by means of a key. 
Going back to what I noted above about intent, that comment from AXAs loss adjuster is 
important. If AXA could satisfactorily show that Mr M was untruthful with it about the key  
that he cant have been using it to drive the car before the theft  as I noted above it still has 
to show that was done with the intent for Mr M to gain something he otherwise wouldnt be 
entitled to under the policy.
AXAs claim file shows it had a chance to consider how a key might have been relevant to 
the theft. It didnt choose to present any detail in this respect to Mr M as a bar for it meeting 
his claim, not even on a without prejudice basis to its fraud allegation. And within its fraud 
accusation it didnt explain to Mr M why or how its implication that he had not been using the 
key presented to it, meant he must have lied about that  why it was likely that  an honest answer would have shown he had no entitlement under the policy to his theft claim being 
considered.
AXAs policy does exclude theft claims where a key is left unsecured and/or in the car. Most 
insurers choose to include an exclusion like this in the policy as they dont want to be 
responsible for thefts which have become possible because of the careless acts of a 
policyholder. And sometimes, when a policyholder has been careless like this, they might try 
and pass off a non-genuine key as the key they were using to drive the vehicle. I think, 
considering AXAs comments about the key, which held no data, which Mr M presented to it, 
that was AXAs concern here. But AXAs loss adjusters expert opinion is that the CCTV 
footage shows its most likely that a key was not used to steal Mr Ms car. It follows then that 
it cant fairly be said that AXA has established Mr M lied (its view) with the intent to gain 
something he otherwise wasnt entitled to under the policy.    
In my view then, AXA has not shown strong enough proof to support a finding of fraud. And 
nor has it established the intent element necessary to show that fraud has likely occurred. 
Therefore, I find that AXA acted unfairly and unreasonably when it accused Mr M of fraud 
and declined his claim.
Ive thought then about what AXA must do to put things right. 
Amending its own and any industry record is a given. I note it did not cancel Mr Ms policy, 
so I dont need to make a direction in that respect. I also note that AXA came to its concerns 
about the key early in its claim assessment process. So I dont think it has fully considered 
the claim. I think it needs a chance to do that. Mr M has set out detail of some losses hes 
had because he hasnt yet had settlement of his claim. As AXA needs to still consider that 
claim  now that fraud in respect of the key has been taken out of the equation  I cant 
make any award in respect of those reported losses. Put simply I dont know if, but for the 
unfair and unreasonable allegation of fraud, Mr Ms claim would otherwise likely have 
succeeded, thereby avoiding his reported losses. I will though award compensation for 
distress and inconvenience  I accept that the fraud allegation was upsetting for Mr M, 
particularly in his profession. Also that AXAs refusal to respond in any formal way to Ds 
report was a source of frustration for Mr M.  
AXA said it did not agree with my provisional decision. It said it did not record any fraud 
against Mr M. Rather, it said, it declined the claim due to a lack of reasonable explanation for 
the discrepancies, meaning it could not validate the claim. Which, it went on to explain, 
made it think a fraudulent claim had been presented. AXA said that it just isnt clear how the 
car was stolen and its not for it to guess or assume what might have happened. As an 
example, AXA said it couldnt say Mr M had likely left his keys in the car, allowing the theft to 
occur, because it had no evidence of that.
 
AXA said it thought my decision was based on what might have happened, without evidence 
to support any conclusion  such as grasping on the idea of a possibility that a relay theft 
might have occurred. It said Mr Ms credibility is in doubt because its investigations showed 
he cant have been using the key as stated because it could not start the car. It noted that 
the report Mr M had provided on the key only set out theories which its key company had 
refuted. With its key company also noting there was no wear on the key. AXA said it is 
worried that settling this claim will set a precedent for future fraudulent claims.
Mr M said he was pleased by my provisional decision but that he wanted me to include some 
specific wording about what AXA had done wrong. He asked that the compensation I had 
suggested is increased given AXAs intransigence in light of its loss adjusters comments. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note AXAs reply was presented after the deadline for replies to my provisional decision 
expired. But as my final decision had not been issued when AXAs late reply arrived, Ive 
considered what its said. 
I note that AXA takes a few contrasting positions in its reply. It says it did not record this as 
fraud, rather it declined the claim because it could not validate it. But it also says its 
investigations caused it to conclude the claim was fraudulent and it is worried about 
precedent for other fraudulent claims. AXA cant, in my view, have it both ways. AXA cant 
reasonably rely on fraud arguments to support a claim decline whilst stating the reason for 
the decline was not fraud. 
In any event, when Mr M asked AXA during the claim why it was declining it, it referred him 
to the fraud condition on the policy. I reiterate what I said provisionally, if AXA wants to rely 
on a finding of fraud to decline a claim it has to support that in strong evidence  strong 
evidence of both a lie and which shows that that lie was made with the intent of gaining 
something not otherwise entitled to under the policy. I stand by what I said provisionally 
regarding why I think AXA, in either respect, has not done that here. But I also note from 
AXAs reply that it feels it has no evidence establishing how the car was stolen, for example, 
that Mr M left his key in it. So, again, AXA hasnt shown that its most likely that the claim 
would have failed but for the lie (if there was one, which Ive also said it hasnt shown) i.e. 
that the lie was made with the intent of gaining something not otherwise entitled to. 
I remain of the view that AXA acted unfairly and unreasonably when it declined the claim, 
accusing Mr M of fraud.
Ive noted the specifics of what Mr M would like me to say in concluding this complaint. But it 
is for me to determine the outcome, decide upon the findings and explain my decision in 
those respects. I am satisfied that AXA failed Mr M here, that it levelled a serious accusation 
against him without strong evidence to support such. As such, and as Ive said, Im also 
satisfied that AXA treated Mr M unfairly and unreasonably.
I explained provisionally that I felt compensation should be paid by AXA. I set my 
compensation award having explained how AXA came to its fraud allegation even despite its 
loss adjusters opinion. But it is the fraud allegation that has caused Mr M upset  he did not 
know the mechanism of why that was unfair, only that it felt unfair to him. And I have found, 
as I said provisionally, and in my paragraph above, that AXA treated Mr M unfairly and 
unreasonably. I remain of the view that £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably due to 
make up for that. 
Ive reviewed the complaint and my view on it has not changed. My provisional findings, 
along with those here, are now the findings of this my final decision. 
  
Putting things right
I require AXA to:
Remove the record of fraud from its own and any industry database.
Consider Mr Ms claim for theft of his car, in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
Pay Mr M £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman