DRN-2136037
The complaint
Mr B says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2002. The policy was taken out at the 
same time as Mr B applied for an Egg credit card. It gave him accident, sickness
and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory (as some of it is here) I have reached my conclusion 
based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and what we know about how Canada Square Operations sold PPI at the 
time.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B asks what evidence is there that he made clear that he wanted PPI. He makes the 
assertion that the option to take out PPI was a pre-ticked section of the application form and 
customers had to actively opt out at this time. 
I've looked at the PPI screen Mr B would have seen when he applied for the Egg credit card 
online. This gave the options 'Yes, I want to protect my repayments' and 'No, I understand 
it's my responsibility to keep up my repayments should I fall ill or lose my job'. These options 
were set out with equal prominence on the screen. And neither option is pre-selected on the 
screenshot Canada Square Operations has provided. It has explained that a customer had 
to select one of the options to progress with their application, but neither of the options were 
pre-selected. On the applications report which shows the data Mr B entered as part of his 
application, there is a Y for PPI. 
I have thought carefully about Mr Bs comments, but I havent seen any other evidence to 
support his claim that the PPI was pre-selected, or that his application didnt follow Canada 
Square Operations standard sales process. On balance, I think Canada Square Operations 
made it clear to Mr B the PPI was optional, and he agreed to take it out.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for him. It was up to Mr B to decide whether the policy was right for him, 
bearing in mind his ability to make his credit card repayments if he was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Canada Square Operations didnt give Mr B all the information about the PPI 
that he needed before he made his decision. But Mr B chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover. It seems he wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. This policy was fairly priced in the market and offered a competitive 
benefit level. And Ive seen no evidence the PPI was unaffordable. If Mr B was sick the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, in addition to his work benefit of between six and 12 
months sick pay. Mr B said he had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed him to 
use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for his 
future needs.
Overall, I think it unlikely Mr B wouldve made a different decision if better information had 
been provided.
It follows that I dont think Mr B has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman