DRN-3733079
The complaint
Mr R complains that CMC Spreadbet Plc took back profits he made on his positions causing 
a negative account balance and preventing him from making a profit by closing his open 
positions. 
What happened
Mr Rs position 
He says between 11-14 March 2022 he made £59,000 in profit from trading in 
US NDAQ100-Sep 22 with CMC Spreadbet Plc (CMC). He complains they cancelled all his 
trades on 15 March 2022 saying these were executed at an inaccurate price but wasnt 
given enough information about which positions would be cancelled. 
They took back his profits causing his account to go into negative balance and subsequently 
closed all his positions.  If his positions on US NDAQ 100-June2 and US FANG Plus  Mar 
22 were not forced to close, he says he would have made thousands in profits when the 
markets peaked at the end of March and early April 2022. 
He incurred losses of £1798.50 because of the execution of an order which he says he didnt 
place. This was refunded to him.
He also raised some concerns around CMCs trading practices and that this error 
happened again on 16 and 17th March 2022.
CMCs position 
They issued a final response to Mr R on 28 April 2022, saying the orders executed on his 
account were based on materially incorrect prices and this would be construed as an error 
under the terms of the account - the same terms also give them discretion to cancel any 
affected order. The say they met their obligations by communicating their intention to reverse 
the trades one hour prior to doing so. 
The account margin requirements hadnt been met for the positions that remained and so 
these were closed in line with the terms of the account. They say the close out level was 
only triggered because Mr R had withdrawn £22,000 from the account which left his account 
in negative equity. He needed to pay approximately £20,000 to bring his account back to 
zero, but due to the negative balance protection rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority, 
CMC automatically refunded the negative balance and brought his account balance back to 
zero so that both parties obligations had been met. 
CMC refunded Mr Rs losses of £1,798.50 when they closed the Buy order. They agreed to 
pay for losses incurred on positions closed that were not affected by the incorrect price, 
which they calculated at £5,965.91.
Unhappy with CMCs response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the merits of the complaint and didnt uphold his complaint and for broadly the 
same reasons as CMC have noted.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pricing error
Ive started my investigation looking at how CMC define an error in their agreement. Ive 
considered, in light of what CMC said, whether theyve acted fairly by applying their policy 
and thereby voiding Mr Rs trades. 
On 14 March 2022, CMC identified trades on US NDAQ 100  Sept 22 that were all 
executed at an incorrect price which was different from the underlying market trading prices. 
They say Mr Rs trades were affected by this error caused by their safeguarding price 
controls and movements of the instruments. Having looked at the Bloomberg data on pricing, 
I can see there was a difference which wasnt reflective of the underlying market, and I am 
persuaded there was an error in the pricing which affected Mr Rs trades.
The Financial Betting Terms of Business covers an error in pricing in Section 8. Mr R agreed 
he had read and understood these terms when he signed up to the account. These terms 
apply to each trade he placed with CMC. These terms also give CMC the discretion to 
cancel any order where there is an error found. This is covered under Section 8.3 Reserved 
Action and gives CMC discretionary power to cancel any orders affected by this error as 
well as any relevant consequences whether this is a profit or a loss. From what I have seen, 
CMC have been quick to act on this issue as soon as they became aware of it. They also 
notified Mr R via email an hour before the remedial action was taken, so I am satisfied they 
have met their obligations in this regard. 
I appreciate Mr R feels strongly about this matter that CMC were unfair in their application of 
the right to void his trades, but I think its important to point out, there is no specification that 
you had to have prior knowledge of the error for these terms to apply. Even if he had placed 
these trades in good faith, it would still be unreasonable to expect CMC to honour these at 
what was an incorrect price. As such, any trades impacted by the error in pricing would fall 
within the definition of an error in CMCs terms and they could apply their policy to this. So, 
I dont think CMC have acted unfairly by applying their error policy and in the way that they 
have, and I think their decision to void those trades is reasonable.
Access to funds
Ive then considered the issue of the requested funds which CMC prevented Mr R from 
withdrawing. The withdrawal requests amounted to a total of £42,000 which were profits he 
had realised as a result of the pricing error above. A payment of £22,000 had already been 
released to him but after becoming aware of the pricing error, CMC were entitled to exercise 
their discretion to prevent further withdrawals.  
As Ive explained above, CMC were within their rights to void his trades. He had benefited 
from the pricing error and the terms outline what happens in this situation. Therefore, its 
reasonable that he should have known he wouldnt be able to retain any of the profits. 
Ultimately, it wouldnt be fair for him to have had the benefit of these profits by virtue of this 
pricing error, so I think it was fair and reasonable under the circumstances that CMC did 
offset the £20,000 withdrawal he requested against the negative account balance of £20,148.45. Given the circumstances, I am not persuaded that any wrongdoing on CMCs 
part has been established so I will not be asking them to do anything.
Margin call
I appreciate this situation must have been frustrating for Mr R, as he was expecting to make 
thousands in profits from his positions not affected by the pricing error, but the minimum 
account margin requirements were not met. The margin requirements are noted European 
Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), Rule 22.5.13 of the COBs rules, and CMCs 
terms. As soon as the account fell below the required amount, CMC closed any positions to 
manage this. Given that Mr R had been trading with CMC for the length of time he had, I 
think it is reasonable to expect that he was aware of his obligations to maintain the account 
as well as CMCs right to close any relevant positions to maintain the margin requirements. 
Putting things right
That said, CMC are aware that the positions in US NDAQ100-Sep 22 were the only ones 
directly linked to the error in pricing, but his other positions had also been closed. So, to put 
Mr R back in the position he would have been before the error occurred, they agreed to 
reopen his closed positions at the market prices and apply any credit difference between the 
original liquidation and the re-entry prices. This was on the condition that Mr R was to fund 
the account with the equivalent amount to maintain the margins for the closed positions. As 
he wasnt willing to do this, they offered to pay £5,965.91 which they calculated was what he 
would have made for the closed positions which were not part of the original pricing error.
  
I know Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but Im not persuaded he would have 
withdrawn £22,000 if it was not for the pricing error and so the other positions would not 
have closed when they did. The evidence Ive seen shows CMC were within their rights to 
void the trades affected by the pricing error, take back the funds in his account and then deal 
with the account margin as they did. To put Mr R back in the position he would have been 
before the pricing error occurred, I am satisfied that CMCs offer of £5,965.91 is fair and 
reasonable and they should make this payment to him. 
If Mr R continues to have concerns about the way in which CMC operate, I would suggest he 
takes his complaint to the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint against CMC Spreadbet Plc and they 
should pay Mr R £5,965.91.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman