DRN-3094641
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about the premiums theyve paid BUPA Insurance Limited for 
private medical insurance during the pandemic. 
They say that BUPA havent properly addressed the financial impact this has had on them 
given the insurance wasnt offering them value for money.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R hold private medical insurance with BUPA. Their annual policy period runs 
from May to April each year. They say theyve had cover in place for over 40 years. Their 
premiums currently amount to roughly £487 per month for joint cover.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
non-essential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, a national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-
19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS.
Mr and Mrs R continued to pay their policy premiums during this time but became concerned 
they wouldnt have been able to access treatment had they needed it because of the 
reduced availability of services during this time. They estimated that the value of their cover 
reduced by 95%. As such they wanted BUPA to provide them with an equivalent premium 
refund.
From May to July 2020 BUPA provided Mr and Mrs R with cover free of charge as a gesture 
of goodwill for the loyalty they had shown over the years. But Mr and Mrs R didnt think this 
went far enough. 
In September 2020 BUPA offered a premium rebate pledge. They said they would pass back 
any exceptional benefit they saw resulting from Covid-19 to their policyholders if any was 
gained but it would take time to assess the impact of this. BUPA later provided a premium 
rebate of £386 which they thought represented any exceptional benefit they may have 
received as a result of the reduced services available during the pandemic, when taking into 
account claims made. Mr and Mrs R remain unhappy with this.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
She said she didnt think she could hold BUPA responsible for the impact of the pandemic so 
it would be unfair to ask them to pay Mr and Mrs R anything. Mr and Mrs R dont agree 
because they feel that they shouldnt be charged for services they didnt receive. They also 
feel that the logic underlying BUPAs premium rebate calculation is bizarre and 
inappropriate. Because of this the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The impact of the pandemic on the healthcare sector was unprecedented. And I appreciate 
why Mr and Mrs R feel they wouldnt have been able to access treatment had they needed it. 
I know that Mr R has pre-existing conditions, for which he might have needed treatment. So, 
I understand why he and Mrs R asked BUPA for a premium refund in the circumstances. 
But this isnt how an insurance policy works. The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs 
policy say their plan is for one year and that premiums must be paid for BUPA to provide 
cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event 
happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the 
premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no successful claim has been made 
under the policy From the information available, I can see that even during the height of the 
pandemic between March 2020 to June 2020, BUPA did provide some level of service and 
where possible, arranged remote services to its members. It also continued to offer critical 
care, for example to cancer patients, and this remained for the most part unaffected, even 
during this period. In addition, I dont think its accurate to say Mr and Mrs Rs policy was 
unusable. Depending on the type of medical treatment or services they required, BUPA 
couldve pre-authorised treatment to be carried out at a later date, if the specific treatment 
they might have needed was difficult to access at that time.
And in this case, I havent seen anything to suggest that either Mr or Mrs R needed 
treatment but werent able to access it. Having reviewed their policy I can see that they had 
access to, amongst other things, mental health support, treatment at home and cash 
benefits if theyd been hospitalised with Covid-19 for example, during that time. Whilst I 
understand that Mr and Mrs R might not have found these services useful, Im satisfied that 
these were benefits which they couldve taken advantage of if theyd needed to. And if Mr 
and Mrs R had made a claim, its possible that BUPA would have made reasonable efforts to 
assist them, for example by offering them treatment from hospitals not usually on their 
approved lists or by sourcing consultants who were accepting patients so that treatment 
could go on. 
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control.  BUPA couldnt have 
predicted the impact the pandemic had on the range of medical treatments they were able to 
offer when the NHS took over private hospitals. So, I dont think this is something I can hold 
them accountable for.
BUPA provided Mr and Mrs R with three months free cover and a rebate of £386. I know Mr 
and Mrs R arent happy with the way in which BUPA calculated that rebate, but I cant 
consider that issue here. Mr and Mrs R will need to first complain to BUPA about this if they 
remain dissatisfied. 
Overall whilst I acknowledge that BUPA couldnt offer the full service to all its customers, I 
dont think this was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. BUPA was entitled to carry 
on taking the policy premiums whilst it assessed whether a premium rebate should be made 
to Mr and Mrs R- although in this case it didnt charge them for premiums at all for three 
months whilst it did this. The restrictions on services was beyond BUPAs control and Im not 
persuaded that the policy was unusable as Mr and Mrs R did still have a range of benefits. In 
addition, Ive seen nothing to suggests Mr and Mrs R werent able to access medical 
treatment covered by the policy, when they needed it. Taken together, I cant say BUPA 
have done anything wrong or that they should do anything to put things right.I know Mr and Mrs R will find this disappointing but taking everything into account, I think this 
is fair in the circumstances of this complaint
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against BUPA Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman