DRN-2461840
The complaint
Ms M complains Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent to her 
on multiple occasions.   
What happened
Ms M was approved for two loans by 118 118 Money. They are summarised below:
Loan Date Capital Amount Term Monthly 
Repayment
One April 2016 £1,000 12 months £117.63
Two October 2016 £1,400 24 months £134.15
  
Ms M says 118 118 Money did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks before 
lending to her on both occasions. She says had it done so, 118 1118 Money wouldve 
realised the loans were unaffordable to her.
Our investigator considered Ms Ms complaint and recommended that loan two be upheld. 
He felt 118 118 Money shouldve completed further checks, and had it done so it likely 
wouldnt have lent to Ms M. However, he felt 118 118 Money had acted reasonably in 
relation to loan one. 118 118 Money agreed with this recommendation, but Ms M did not. 
She maintained 118 118 Money didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks before 
approving her for loan one.
As no agreement on all of the issues could be agreed the matter has been passed to me to 
issue a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ms complaint.
All parties agree on the outcome and recommendations for loan two. That is to say 118 118 
Money accepts it should not have provided this loan to Ms M. As such I dont need to make 
a further finding in relation to that aspect of Ms Ms complaint, other than to say I agree with 
the recommendations of our investigator, and will set out the required redress later on in this 
decision. 
Turning to loan one. Ms M says 118 118 Money didnt complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks before approving the loan to her. She says she was struggling 
financially at the time of the loan and was having to supplement her income with other forms 
of credit. She says further checks wouldve shown the loan was unaffordable to her.
The rules which applied at the time meant 118 118 Money needed to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to be able to understand if any lending was affordable to Ms M. 
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks could include things such as a 
customers income (over the full term of the loan), and their outgoing expenses. These 
checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit being provided 
including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total length of the term. The 
checks also need to be borrower focused.
It may also be that proportionate checks set out in the early stages of a lending relationship 
may be less thorough  in terms of the information it gathers and relies on. This is likely to 
change if the lending relationship goes on for a longer period, as there is a greater risk of the 
lending becoming unsustainable for a customer (as was the case for Ms Ms second loan). 
118 118 Money is also entitled to rely on the information it is provide by Ms M; providing this 
information is reasonable and consistent with the searches it completes. 
118 118 Money says the checks it completed were reasonable and proportionate in this 
instance. It says it searched Ms Ms credit file as well as completing an income and 
expenditure assessment on her. Ms M had declared her income as approximately £1,500 
per month, and gave her outgoings including rent and council tax. The credit file search 
showed Ms M had approximately £2,000 in existing debt made up from short term lenders, 
an overdraft and a mail order account. After completing the credit file search 118 118 Money 
increased the outgoing Ms M declared, including using higher amounts for her bills, and the 
monthly expenses for her existing credit commitments. This higher figure was deducted from 
Ms Ms income and left enough disposable income to meet the required monthly 
repayments.
Having considered the checks 118 118 Money completed, Im satisfied they were 
proportionate in this instance. I say this because 118 118 Money has conducted a search of 
Ms Ms financial circumstances and taken these expenses into consideration before deciding 
to lend. It hasnt solely relied on Ms Ms self declaration, and has sought to verify her 
outgoings to a reasonable and proportionate level (bearing in mind the low value of the loan 
and shortness of the term).
As these searches seemingly showed Ms M could afford the repayments, it follows Im 
satisfied 118 118 Moneys decision to lend loan one was reasonable in this instance. And as 
such I make no award in respect of it. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require 118 118 Money to do the following in relation to loan two:
To add up the total amount of money Ms M received as a result of having being given 
loan two. The repayments Ms M has made should be deducted from this amount. 
oIf this results in Ms M having paid more than she received then any 
overpayment should be refunded along with 8% (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement)  
oIf any capital amount remains; then 118 118 Money should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms M. To remove any adverse information about loan two from Ms Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money to 
take off tax from this interest. Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money must give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman