DRN-3548501
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) handled a claim under 
his home insurance policy. When I mention Fairmead I also means its suppliers and 
representatives.
What happened
Mr G has a home insurance policy with Fairmead covering his household buildings. 
In February 2021 Mr G noticed that water was leaking into his home around the chimney 
breast in his living room. 
He contacted Fairmead to make a claim. Fairmead accepted the claim under its storm 
damage cover. Because Mr G lives in a remote location, he obtained a quote from a local 
builder to repair the damage. 
His builder quoted to remove the chimney back to the roof level and make good at a cost of 
£7,470 + VAT.
Fairmead then sent a loss adjuster to inspect the property and provide a report. He reported 
that the chimney had cracked over time because of residue from peat burning which had 
expanded in the chimney causing cracks and the water had entered the property through 
those cracks.
Because Fairmeads loss adjuster said the damage was caused by a gradual deterioration of 
the chimney stack, he said Mr Gs claim would be declined because the damage fell under 
this exclusion in Fairmeads policy wording:
Your policy does not cover claims arising from wear and tear or gradual 
deterioration
Mr G wasnt happy that Fairmead had initially accepted the claim and then declined it over 
three months later so he complained. Fairmead maintained its position that the cause of the 
damage was wear and tear and deterioration, so it wouldnt be covered under Mr Gs policy.
As Mr G remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to this service. He asks that Fairmead 
pay for the repairs to his chimney. Our investigator looked into it and upheld it. She said she 
didnt think Fairmead had acted fairly in applying the exclusion. She asked for further 
evidence from Fairmead to demonstrate why it said the cause was gradual deterioration 
rather than a storm.
Fairmead replied and said it could see cracks in the render in the chimney which it said 
would be associated with gradual deterioration. It also said it thought the damage might have 
been pre-existing because Mr G had mentioned a similar leak happening about a year 
before. Mr G told our investigator that this previous leak was on a different chimney at the 
other end of the house. Fairmead maintained that the damage was excluded because it had 
happened gradually, but it said that it thought the cause was different from what its loss 
adjuster had said.
Our investigator said she didnt think it fair of Fairmead to apply the wear and tear exclusion 
without providing further evidence. She said Fairmead should settle the claim by refunding 
the amount hed paid to have the chimney removed, which was £6,156.
Mr G accepted the view, but Fairmead didnt. Because Fairmead didnt agree, the case has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
Mr G made the claim with Fairmead due to water entering his house down the sides of a 
chimney. He says this happened after a long, wet period and stormy conditions. 
When considering storm damage, we ask three questions:
1. Was there a storm on or around the date the damage occurred?
2. Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no  the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered
Fairmeads policy doesnt define storm, so Ive looked at the weather in the area at the time 
and Ive found that the wind speed reached 66mph and there was heavy rain. I think its fair 
to say that storm conditions existed at the time. Water ingress into a property is a typical 
result from a storm and I am satisfied that for the water damage to have appeared at the 
time of this stormy weather happened means that I think the answer to all three questions is 
yes.
It seems to me that Fairmeads position is that the answer to the third question is no and it 
says this because its loss adjuster declined the claim as he said water had entered Mr Gs 
house though cracks in the chimney caused by peat residue expanding in the chimney. 
For Fairmead to be able to decline the claim in this way I would expect it to be able to supply 
evidence to reasonably prove this had taken place. I can see that our investigator has asked 
for this evidence but Fairmead wasnt able to supply it.
I can also see that when our investigator did ask for the evidence, Fairmead changed its 
stance on why it had applied the wear and tear exclusion. It said it could see cracks in the 
render on the chimney on the photos taken by its loss adjuster in 2021. It said it wouldnt 
expect render to crack because of wind, so it said the cracks would be associated with 
general deterioration and so the claim wouldnt be covered.
Ive thought about this carefully. Firstly, I dont think it was fair of Fairmeads loss adjuster to 
have declined the claim initially based on his inspection of the chimney. Ive not been able to 
see any evidence of the damage caused by expanding peat residue, and Mr G comments that the loss adjuster was on-site for (what he thought was) a short time and didnt examine 
the outside of the chimney apart from taking photos from ground level.
Secondly, when asked for further evidence of this peat expansion, Fairmead declined the 
claim for a different reason, saying it was due to wear and tear of the render. Again, using 
the photos from ground level as evidence.
I dont think its fair of Fairmead to take this approach. If Fairmead want to decline a claim on 
this basis then it needs to reasonably prove that the water got into Mr Gs property through 
cracks caused by wear and tear. From the evidence I have, I dont think Fairmead have 
proved this, so it follows that I think it should settle Mr Gs claim.
Its my understanding that Mr G has already had the repairs done to remove the chimney at 
a cost of £6,156, so I think Fairmead should refund the money he has paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr G £6,156 for the repairs to his chimney. 
As Mr G has already paid for the repairs, Fairmead should also pay it must also pay interest 
on the repairs from the date Mr G paid for them, to the date he tells us he accepts my final 
decision (assuming he does) at 8% a year simple.*
*If Fairmead considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman