DRN-1970788
The complaint
Mr W complains about how U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) handled his car 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr W has a car insurance policy with Direct Line. In 2019, Mr Ws car was damaged in an 
automated car wash at a garage. Mr W made a claim under his policy and believes the 
garage that owns the car wash is at fault.
Direct Line accepted the claim but said the garage wasnt at fault. It said it considered the 
evidence which showed that Mr W had not followed the car wash instructions, specifically 
that his vehicle was parked over the central rails. So, it said Mr W would need to pay his 
claim excess.
Mr W disagreed with this decision. He explained that the car wash shouldve stopped on 
impact, but it didnt. Instead it continued and caused over £3,000 worth of damage to his car. 
Mr W argued the car wash was clearly unsafe and therefore the garage should be liable for 
the damage. Mr W made this argument to Direct Line but it didnt respond. After three 
months and three letters it responded to say that it wouldnt be changing the claim outcome. 
But it did offer Mr W £50 for not responding to his letters.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She explained that Mr Ws policy allows 
Direct Line to negotiate and settle a claim. In this case she could see it gathered evidence 
and made a decision as to fault based on that evidence so she didnt think it had acted 
unreasonably. The investigator did think that Direct Line should pay Mr W £150 for the 
trouble and upset caused by not responding to his letters. She explained that he was clear in 
why he didnt think Direct Line had made the right decision but was left with no response for 
over three months.
Neither party agreed with the investigator. Direct Line believes its original offer of £50 is fair 
for the lack of communication. Mr W believes that the car wash was faulty and Direct Line 
hasnt carried out an effective investigation. As no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached for broadly the same 
reasons.
Liability
It isnt my role to decide who was at fault for the damage to Mr Ws car, that is an issue 
better suited to a court of law. My role here is to look at whether Direct Line was reasonable 
when it reached its decision to settle the claim in the way it did. And I think that it was.Mr Ws policy documents set out that Direct Line is entitled to take over and carry out the 
negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name. This means that it is Direct 
Lines decision how to settle a claim. Id expect it to gather information from Mr W and 
present this to the third party insurer (TPI), in this case this was the insurer of the garage 
where the car wash was. Id then expect it to make a reasonable decision as to how to settle 
the claim.
In Mr Ws case, Direct Line approached the TPI. The TPI presented Direct Line with pictures 
of the car wash, and the warning sign and instructions. These said:
Drive forward between the rails until the red light shows; and
Position Your Vehicle Within The Guide Rails
The sign also included a picture to show how the vehicle should be positioned. And the sign 
contained a warning that the garage will not accept liability for any damage caused while 
using the car wash unless it was due to negligence from the garage.
The TPI sent Direct Line pictures of Mr Ws vehicle in the car wash. The pictures show the 
car was not positioned inside the rails as instructed. It was over the rail and at an angle. The 
TPI explained that this was the reason Mr Ws vehicle was damaged. Direct Line concluded 
from this that Mr W was at fault and I think this was a reasonable conclusion to make from 
the evidence.
Mr W has said he believes there was negligence as the car wash shouldve stopped if he 
wasnt positioned in the rails properly. But Direct Line wasnt sent anything to suggest the 
car wash was faulty. And the TPI explained that many people had used that car wash the 
same day without incident. So, I can see why Direct Line decided that Mr W was at fault for 
the accident. I dont think it has acted unreasonably and I wont be asking it to refund Mr Ws 
excess hes paid for his claim.
Customer service
Its clear that Mr W feels strongly about his claim and feels strongly that he wasnt at fault. 
He explained this to Direct Line in detailed letters dated 27 June 2019, 30 August 2019 and 
11 October 2019. Direct Line only responded after Mr W sent his letter in October asking to 
raise a complaint. So, his letters were unanswered for around three months. I dont think this 
is acceptable. And I can see Direct Line agreed and offered Mr W £50 for this. But I think it 
should pay him £150 for the trouble and upset. Ill explain why.
I agree with Direct Line that it repaired the damage to the car in a timely manner and that it 
had been clear with Mr W that he was likely to be held at fault for the purposes of his claim. 
But Mr W explained in detail why he didnt think this should be the case. And whilst I agree 
that Direct Line was reasonable in the way it settled the claim, I think it shouldve replied 
sooner to Mr Ws letters. Mr W was clearly frustrated with the way Direct Line hadnt 
investigated further into his allegations of negligence and I think that not receiving a reply for 
so long wouldve added more frustration to a situation that Mr W was clearly unhappy about. 
I do think three months is too long to wait for a reply, particularly as its something that 
couldve been answered easily from Direct Line. And so, I think £150 compensation is fair to 
recognise the ongoing frustration that this wouldve caused Mr W.
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) must pay Mr W £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset it caused.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) must pay Mr W £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman