DRN-3134499
The complaint
X has complained that following a claim under his policy, his motor insurance provider UK 
Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance (UKI) unfairly requested the 
outstanding premium owed on the policy from him. UKI also didnt clearly explain to him 
when he cancelled the policy that the full balance would be due from him.  
What happened
X took out a motor insurance policy with UKI in April 2021. Unfortunately, X was involved in 
an accident and his car wasnt economical to repair. X therefore bought a replacement car 
and attempted to add this car to his existing policy.
When X attempted to add the replacement car to the policy, he was quoted an additional 
premium that he thought was too expensive. X then enquired about cancelling his existing 
policy. During a call with UKI X decided to cancel his existing policy and move to a different 
insurer.
X has explained that UKI wasnt clear when he was cancelling his policy that the entire 
remaining premium would be due from him.
UKI accepted it could have been clearer about the amount X would need to pay when he 
cancelled his policy and gave X the option of reinstating his policy with it. But X declined this 
option. X would like UKI to write off the remaining balance of his insurance.
Our Investigator considered Xs complaint and thought UKI had offered a fair resolution to 
his complaint so he didnt think UKI should have to do anything further. X disagreed, so this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common practice in the motor insurance industry for the full annual premium to be due 
following a claim being made under a policy. This is because, although premiums may be 
paid on a monthly basis, the policy itself is usually an annual policy and if a claim is made 
the insurance is seen to have been utilised. This is considered fair.
This is explained in Xs motor insurance policy. The policy states:
We will not refund any premium if you have made a claim or if one has been made against 
you during the period of cover.
It is also common practice for an insurer to allow a replacement vehicle to be added to the 
policy following a claim, although as a new vehicle comes with a new risk it is often likely that 
the cost of the policy will also change.
X has explained that UKI wasnt clear when he cancelled his policy that the full premium 
would still need to be paid, UKI also said it could have been clearer about the charges.
I have listened to the call when X cancelled his policy. During the call the Lloyds 
representative says:
If paid via instalments the remainder of the premium is also due
X asks for clarification on what that means and the UKI rep says:
So that means if you pay monthly the remainder of the premium still has to be paid 
UKI didnt give an actual amount of what X would need to pay, so I think it could have been 
clearer on this point. But X was aware that he was paying for his insurance in instalments so 
I think he would also have been aware, from what the UKI representative was telling him, 
that as he paid monthly for his insurance the remainder of the premium would have to be 
paid.
Once given this information X still decided to cancel his policy with UKI. 
I think UKI did enough to explain to X that he would have to pay the remaining balance of his 
insurance policy when it was cancelled. So, I would not have asked UKI to do anything more 
to resolve Xs complaint at this point even if it had not offered to reinstate his policy.
So, I think UKIs offer to reinstate Xs policy was fair, and in excess of what I would have 
asked UKI to do if it hadnt made this offer. I also think it is fair for UKI to ask X to pay the 
outstanding amount due on the policy he chose to cancel. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman