DRN-3128715
The complaint
Ms S complains about damage caused to her home when Amtrust Europe Limited were 
carrying out repairs under her heating insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms S has a heating cover policy which includes a service contract (which isnt a financial 
service and so isnt something we could look into) and an insurance contract underwritten by 
Amtrust. For convenience, where I refer below to actions taken by Amtrust, this may include 
actions taken by their agents.
Im not going to describe the events in question in great detail, because theyre well known 
to both Ms S and Amtrust and what happened isnt in dispute  at least not in any way thats 
significant in terms of my decision.
Briefly then, Ms S had a relatively small leak from a heating water tank upstairs in her home. 
She made a claim under her policy and Amtrust arranged for an engineer to visit and carry 
out repairs. At the time, Ms S was quite vulnerable. Shed recently had an operation and had 
a very young baby in the house.
Its fair to say that the repairs took longer than appears entirely necessary. Parts had to be 
ordered, but when the engineer returned for the first time, he had the wrong parts. At the 
second time of asking the parts failed to be delivered for two days. And when the work was 
eventually carried out, there was a further leak which then had to be repaired  by a different 
engineer. Ms S was without hot water for around four days.
Ms S says that the second engineer, who eventually fixed the problem, told her the first 
engineer had fitted a valve upside down, which had caused the second leak. That second 
leak caused extensive damage to Ms Ss property. 
Ms S made a complaint to Amtrust. In response, they agreed to pay her £450 for 
redecoration of the affected part of the house. They paid Ms S £150 in compensation for her 
trouble and upset. And they paid for cleaning of the carpet in the affected area at a cost of 
£120. When that failed to remove the stains, they offered to pay one third of the cost of 
replacing the carpet.
Ms S wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked in to it. She thought Amtrust had done the right thing in covering the redecoration 
costs. But she thought they should pay another £100 in compensation to Ms S  and pay the 
full cost of replacing the carpet. 
Amtrust disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I think its fair to say that Amtrust have delayed the resolution of Ms Ss complaint 
by  at first  denying that their engineer was responsible for the second leak. They 
eventually admitted to us that it was likely hed fitted a key part upside down and that had 
most likely caused the second leak. So, the facts here arent really in dispute any longer, 
although its a shame it took so long to get to that point.
That leaves me with two key questions to consider in my decision. One, is the compensation 
paid by Amtrust (£150) sufficient? And two, what contribution should Amtrust make to the 
replacement cost of Ms Ss carpet.
In terms of the compensation, I agree with our investigators view. Ms S made her vulnerable 
position clear to Amtrust at the outset. She ought to have been treated as a priority and her 
leak should have been fixed as soon as was reasonably possible.
Amtrust didnt cause the first leak. And Ms S was always going to be without hot water for a 
period of time. But that stretched to four days only because of errors made by the engineer  
seemingly ordering the wrong part initially, not getting the right part for two days and causing 
the second leak by an error in fitting the parts.
Ms S also had the inconvenience  at a time when she could have done without it  of 
calling Amtrust several times to resolve issues which werent of her making and to ensure 
she eventually got the service shed paid for. As well as the stress, throughout the four days 
or so, of not knowing when and how her heating problem would be resolved.
Weve also seen evidence that the engineer became heated when discussing the repairs 
with Ms S and acted unprofessionally. Ms S eventually requested that Amtrust send a 
different engineer because she didnt want the first engineer in her house. Again, that must 
have been very stressful for Ms S at a time when she was clearly vulnerable.
So, I think a further £100, making £250 compensation in total, is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Ms S got two quotes for replacement of the carpet in her hall, stairs and landing. The carpet 
in those areas was matching and continuous. And it was permanently stained in the hall by 
the second leak. The quotes were for around £800 and around £1,000. The time taken to 
resolve Ms Ss complaint means that the quotes are no longer valid.
I should say that the same carpet carries through into Ms Ss lounge, but she isnt asking 
Amtrust to cover the cost of replacing the carpet in that room. She wants them to cover the 
cost of replacing the carpet in the hall, stair and landing. 
I should also say that the original carpet  laid a few years ago  is no longer manufactured 
and so its impossible to replace the carpet in the hall  which is stained  to match with the 
carpet on the stairs and in the landing.
Amtrust dont think its fair that they should carry all of that cost given that the carpet on the 
stairs and in the landing isnt damaged.
I disagree with Amtrust and Ill explain why.
If the leak which caused the damage had been the first leak  which wasnt anything to do 
with Amtrust  then Amtrust would be settling an insurance claim. And in doing so, they 
would be relying on the terms and conditions set out in the policy itself.
Often, insurance policies will set out what happens in circumstances such as these. A policy will  or will not  cover the replacement of matching carpets in adjoining areas of the house. 
That will be clear to the customer when they buy the policy. And often what is meant by 
adjoining (or similar terminology) will be made clear. 
If thats ambiguous, or difficult to determine, either because of the wording of the policy or 
the particular circumstances  for example, the layout of the house in question  then a fair 
and reasonable solution has to be determined.
Where, for example, rooms with the same carpet are clearly separated by doors and/or by 
bars across the floor, it may usually be reasonable to ask an insurer to pay for replacement 
of the carpet in the directly affected area only. 
Conversely, if there is a completely open plan arrangement with no separation of the carpet 
between one area and the next, it may be necessary for the insurer to replace all of the 
carpet in order to put the customer back in the position they were in before the accident or 
insured event.
In Ms Ss case, if Amtrust were settling a claim under the policy, we would need to look very 
carefully at the policy wording and at the layout in Ms Ss house.
But theyre not settling an insurance claim here. Theyre paying to repair damage caused by 
their engineer when he attended to fix a relatively minor leak and caused a much more 
substantial one. 
So, were not looking at the policy terms as such. Were asking whats fair and reasonable 
when it comes to Amtrust putting right the damage their engineer caused.
In those terms, I think its reasonable to think Ms S should be put back in exactly the same 
position she was in before the leak caused by the engineer occurred. And before that, she 
had a hall, stairs and landing with relatively new carpets (only a few years old), which 
matched exactly throughout that continuous area of her house.
So, I think the only fair and reasonable outcome here is for Amtrust to pay what it costs to 
put Ms S back in that position. And thats means they should pay for replacement of all the 
carpets in the continuous hall, stairs and landing area of Ms Ss home.
Ms S had quotes for replacing the carpet in those areas at around £1,000 and around £800. 
Those quotes are no longer valid. If they were still valid, Id likely be suggesting that Amtrust 
pay the lower price to Ms S. 
Given the passage of time, I dont think its unreasonable to ask Amtrust to pay Ms S £900 to 
allow her to replace her carpets, as our investigator suggested.
Putting things right
Im aware that Amtrust have already paid the redecorating costs (£450) which I think was the 
right thing to do. Im aware theyve also already paid £150 in compensation to Ms S. 
So, I think that to put things right in this case they need to pay Ms S another £1,000. That 
comprises a further £100 in compensation and £900 for replacement of Ms Ss carpets.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Ss complaint.Amtrust Europe Limited must pay Ms S:
a further £100 in compensation for her trouble and upset; and
£900 to enable her to replace her carpets.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman