DRN-3378607
The complaint
Mr O complains about Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited. 
The complaint relates to a delay in transferring his Scottish Friendly pension to a different 
providers (HL) SIPP in order to access a flexible drawdown arrangement. He says that the 
delay meant that funds from other pensions transferred to the HL SIPP missed out on 
potential growth as they remained in cash.
What happened
Mr O held a pension which commenced in 1981, which was taken over by Scottish Friendly 
in 2019. This was a section 32 Unit-linked individual pension policy which could only be used 
for accepting a transfer payment from a previous employers pension scheme.
In November 2020, an Origo request was received by Scottish Friendly  but it incorrectly 
cancelled the request. The request was repeatedly followed up, but it wasnt until HL 
contacted Scottish Friendly again in February 2021 with a new letter of authority that the 
transfer took place.
A transfer of £37,479.46 as then made to HL, and a complaint was raised about the delay.
Scottish Friendly investigated the complaint and agreed to uphold it. It arranged to pay Mr O 
late payment interest of £742.61 net of tax, and offered £250 for the stress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr O.
As Mr O remained dissatisfied, he brought the complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
looked at the complaint and explained that Scottish Friendly had agreed to pay a higher level 
of late payment interest than this Service would expect  and that the offer of £250 was 
reasonable. They didnt think that Scottish Friendly needed to do any more.
Mr O didnt think that this went far enough  so the complaint has been passed to me to 
issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also dont think that Scottish Friendly needs to do more to put things right 
for Mr O here. I know this will be disappointing for Mr O, so Ill explain why.
Scottish Friendly has already said that the original Origo request was cancelled in error  so 
theres no need for me to make comment on what went wrong. The sole issue for me to 
consider is whether Scottish Friendly has done enough to put things right.
Scottish Friendly has confirmed that the value of Mr Os policy was £35,105.89 at the time 
that the initial request was made in November 2020  and that it had increased to 
£37,479.46 by the time that the transfer was made in February 2021.
When Mr O initiated the transfer, his pension was valued at £35,105.89, but by the time the 
transfer completed it was worth £37,479.46. To compensate Mr O for the delay, Scottish 
Friendly offered Mr O interest at a rate of 8% simple on the value of his pension, but instead 
of the original value it applied it to the higher value.  So, while the transfer was delayed, 
Mr O benefitted from growth while the pension remained invested and Scottish Friendly then 
added interest at 8% to the higher figure during this period. So, I think Scottish Friendly has 
already done more than this service would direct it to do in respect to this matter.
I understand that Mr O would like compensation paid at a rate of 13%, to be paid on the 
lower figure of £35,105.89 to allow for movements in the market. But throughout the delay 
Mr Os funds remained invested so he has already benefitted from market growth here, plus 
an additional 8%.
Ive considered if Mr O suffered any other financial loss as a result of the error  which in this 
case would be potential growth of the new SIPP held with HL.
HL has confirmed that Mr Os pension funds within his SIPP remained in cash before he 
proceeded with his drawdown application. Mr O has also said that the other pension funds 
were not invested prior to receipt of the funds from Scottish Friendly as he could not enter 
the drawdown, taking the 25% tax-free lump sum available, until all transfers into the new 
SIPP were completed  and that this is the reason that the funds had to remain in cash.
However, HL also confirmed that the two other transfers Mr O requested into his new SIPP 
were received in November 2020, and December 2020  and that Mr O couldve invested 
these funds prior to the drawdown application as soon as the funds were available. So while 
I can understand why Mr O held off investing due to the drawdown being imminent, there 
was nothing that prevented him from investing some or all of the other two funds. But he 
didnt do so. 
Mr O has also confirmed that since going into drawdown, his funds have remained in cash 
rather than being reinvested as he believes the market is overvalued  so I cant see that 
there have been any losses caused by the delay in respect of potential growth in the new 
SIPP.
I also understand that Mr O is disappointed with the £250 offered by Scottish Friendly in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused to him by its error. He feels that this 
doesnt go far enough to represent the stress and inconvenience the error has caused him 
and isnt sufficiently punitive. But Im afraid I disagree. The purpose of this Service isnt to 
impose punitive measures on businesses  we are not the regulator. Instead, we ask 
business to put a consumer back in the position they wouldve been had something not gone 
wrong  which Scottish Friendly has already done, above the level we would ask on this 
occasion, and make awards for distress and inconvenience when something has gone 
wrong based on the impact its had. I understand that Mr O feels that the amount of £250 isnt high enough  but I think that this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here, given the time taken to rectify the issue.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint, and I wont be asking Scottish Friendly to do any 
more than it already has.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman