DRN-2062735
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Lloyds Bank (Lloyds) incorrectly 
handled his chargeback claim.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr M said a debt collection company came to his home and said he owed a 
debt to his Council. Mr M says he wasn't aware of any debt he owed to his Council, but he 
paid the amount due because the debt collection company said they'd take his car and 
belongings if he didn't. Mr M used his Lloyds debit card and a card he has with another bank 
to pay the amount he was told he owed.
Sometime after making this payment, Mr M contacted the debt collection company to find out 
what the debt was for. But the company told him to contact his Council for this information. 
Mr M said he did this, and was told by his Council they had no record of any money owed by 
him. After getting this information, Mr M contacted his banks to make chargeback claims.
At the end of October 2019, Mr M called Lloyds to raise a chargeback claim. Mr M explained 
what had happened, and he was told by Lloyds' adviser that they'd raise a claim. A few 
weeks later, Mr M received emails from Lloyds. But he wasn't able to easily access them 
without a password, and he said he wasn't given this information. Mr M was unhappy with 
the service he was receiving, and raised a complaint.
Lloyds looking into Mr M's concerns and issued their final response. In this they explained 
they logged Mr M's chargeback claim on the same day he called them. And during this call 
their adviser had asked Mr M to send them information to support this claim. Lloyds said 
they weren't able to continue with Mr M's chargeback claim as they hadn't received the 
information they'd asked for. While Lloyds didn't think they'd done anything wrong by not 
continuing to pursue the chargeback, they did acknowledge they should have done more to 
manage Mr M's expectations. This is because they didn't tell Mr M about the time limit for 
raising chargebacks during his call with them, and they had continued to ask for information 
after the time limit had expired. In recognition of their mistakes, they paid Mr M £50 for the 
inconvenience he would have experienced, and £24 to cover the cost of calls he made to 
them. Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didn't think Mr M's complaint should be upheld. She said Lloyds weren't 
able to deal with Mr M's chargeback claim because he hadn't provided the information they'd 
requested. And as the time limit for raising a chargeback had ended, there was little more 
Lloyds could do. She also thought Lloyds' £74 offer was fair for the mistake they made by 
not telling Mr M about the time limit for the chargeback.
 
Mr M didn't agree with our investigator. He said Lloyds hadn't considered his chargeback 
properly, as they should have considered it from the perspective that he was defrauded. He 
also said the information Lloyds had request wasn't reasonable, and he would never have 
been able to provide it.Our investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion, so Mr M asked for his case to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr M's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he hoped for, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
When considering a chargeback, a bank needs to do so in line with the relevant scheme 
rules. In Mr M's case, the Visa rules applied, and these say chargebacks need to be raised 
within 120 days of the disputed transaction. This meant Mr M had until the end of November 
2019 to raise his chargeback.
Mr M first contacted Lloyds about his issue with the debt collection company at the end of 
October 2019. So, he had just under one month to raise his chargeback. During this call 
Lloyds adviser explained they would start the chargeback process for Mr M. They also 
asked him to send them information from his Council that explained they had no record of 
him owing them a debt. The advisor asked Mr M to provide this information within 14 days 
and gave him a reference number and email address to use when sending the information. I 
consider Lloyds adviser clearly explained what was needed and when. So, Im satisfied Mr 
M would have known the next steps when he came away from that call.
Its not unusual for a bank to ask for information to support a chargeback. And given what Mr 
M had told Lloyds adviser about his conversation with his Council, I consider the information 
Lloyds requested was reasonable and logical. I can understand why they would have wanted 
this information before contacting the bank of the debt collection agency as it would have 
supported what Mr M had said about not owing the debt hed paid.
Mr M has confirmed that he didnt send the requested information to Lloyds. Hes also told 
us he feels the request was unreasonable because its unusual to ask for proof of a debt that 
isnt owed. But I cant agree with Mr M on this point. I don't consider it would have been 
impractical or unusual to ask an organisation for written confirmation of what was discussed 
over the phone  it just so happens to be in Mr Ms case that he needed his Council to 
confirm theyd told him they couldnt find records of any debts he owed. And if his Council 
had refused to provide this information, I would have expected Mr M to tell Lloyds. But he 
didnt, so I dont consider its fair to hold Lloyds at fault for Mr M not providing the information 
they asked for, by the deadline theyd set.
Mr M has said he wasnt able to open the emails Lloyds had sent him because they required 
a password, and he didnt have it. The emails Lloyds sent concerned Mr Ms chargeback. 
So, I can understand why it would have been frustrating for Mr M to be unable to read the 
emails when he was going through the chargeback process. The first email from Lloyds was 
sent to Mr M in the middle of November. And I can see that he emailed Lloyds back, and 
explained the problem with the passwords. However, the email outlining this problem was 
sent to Lloyds after the chargeback time limit had expired. So, even if he had responded with 
the relevant information after his email, it would have been too late.
Given the limited time Lloyds had to handle Mr Ms chargeback, they should have made him 
aware of the same. Mr M told Lloyds adviser about the date the disputed transaction took 
place. So, they had the relevant information needed, in that call, to tell Mr M the latest date 
theyd be able to raise the chargeback. It was wrong of Lloyds to not share this information 
with Mr M. I appreciate Lloyds 14-day deadline for the requested information meant they would have still had time to raise the chargeback. However, this was reliant on Mr M being 
able to provide that information on time. Given that he needed to get this information from 
another organisation, Lloyds should have considered the fact Mr Ms Council may not work 
to the same timescales as them. And without Mr M being aware of the limited time he had, 
he wouldnt have been able to explain the same to his Council to ensure they did all they 
could to help him.
I also cant ignore the fact Lloyds chased the requested information after the chargeback 
deadline had passed. This was the wrong because it would have given Mr M false hope that 
his chargeback could still be dealt with. Considering this, I think its only right Lloyds do 
something to put things right. 
Lloyds has acknowledged their mistake and offered Mr M a total of £74. Taking everything 
into account, I consider this offer was fair in the circumstances. Its also in line with what I 
would have awarded had Lloyds not already made an offer. I consider this offer is fair 
because it takes into account the fact Lloyds didnt give Mr M all the relevant information he 
needed about making a chargeback. But I cant ignore the fact Lloyds original deadline to 
receive the information was still within the chargeback time limits. It also considers Mr M not 
sending the information they needed, or letting them know why this wasnt provided, at the 
earliest opportunity.
Following our investigators view, Mr M said Lloyds used the wrong chargeback codes, and 
should have dealt with his chargeback as if hed been defrauded. The chargeback codes 
used by Lloyds doesnt change the outcome of this case. The reason Lloyds didnt pursue 
Mr Ms chargeback is because they werent sent the information they needed within the 
relevant timeframe. Using a different code, wouldnt have changed this.
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Lloyds handled Mr Ms chargeback claim as I 
would expect. But they fell short with their communication. However, I consider theyve done 
enough to put things right for this  so I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding Mr M's complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Lloyds Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman