DRN-3699446
The complaint
Mr M complains because Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) hasnt paid a claim 
under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Astrenska. 
While on holiday abroad, a small bag belonging to Mr M went missing. Mr M had left the bag 
containing cash and counterfeit watches with his 12-year-old son. On Mr Ms return, the bag 
was missing, and his son was unaware of what had happened. Mr M subsequently said he 
believes the bag was stolen by a waiter. 
Mr M made a claim for the loss under his policy with Astrenska, who declined the claim 
because Mr M didnt have a police report. Mr M said he attempted to obtain a police report 
and the police told him theyd send a report, but this never happened. Mr M complained but 
Astrenska maintained its position. It said not only did Mr M not have a police report, but the 
cash wasnt being carried on his person as required by the policy and it wouldnt pay a claim 
for counterfeit watches. Astrenska also said Mr M hadnt taken reasonable care, as required 
by his policy, when leaving his bag with his 12-year-old son. 
Unhappy, Mr M brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think Astrenska had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by declining Mr Ms claim. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the complaint has been referred to me 
as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my decision about Mr Ms complaint. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms contract with Astrenska require him to obtain a police 
report in order to make a successful claim for lost or stolen items. An insurer is entitled to 
ask for reasonable evidence to demonstrate that a loss has happened before agreeing to 
pay a claim  and this would generally include a police report in circumstances such as this. 
But, the lack of a police report doesnt always mean that a policyholders claim will 
automatically fail, if theres other evidence available to support the loss. Mr M has 
consistently said he attempted to obtain a police report and an email he sent to Astrenska 
while he was abroad supports his version of events. So, I dont necessarily think its fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances for Astrenska to decline Mr Ms claim for this reason. 
However, Mr Ms policy says that the policyholder must take reasonable steps to protect 
their belongings from loss, theft, or damage. And, the terms and conditions of the policy 
specifically state that both money and valuables such as watches must be kept with those 
who are insured under the policy. I understand that Mr Ms son was also insured under this 
policy, but, Id generally consider that its fair and reasonable to interpret this policy 
requirement as meaning that money and valuables should be kept in the possession of an 
adult, and not a child of the age of Mr Ms son. This is because I dont think a child of this 
age can generally be considered to have a reasonable prospect of preventing a theft.
I appreciate that Mr M says his son is not a young 12-year-old. But I dont think Mr Ms 
claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy and, in these circumstances, I 
dont think Astrenska has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Ms claim. 
As Im satisfied this claim isnt covered under the policy for other reasons, I dont think its 
necessary to make any findings on Astrenskas comments about the counterfeit watches. 
This means I wont be directing Astrenska to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman