DRN-2483083
The complaint
Mr G complains as a director of P about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim P made 
on its commercial insurance policy.
What happened
P holds a commercial insurance policy provided by AXA. It sought to make a claim under the 
Public and Products liability and professional indemnity sections of the policy when a third 
party made a claim against it in respect of some goods it had sold and fitted.
Ten months later, P was informed that AXA had concluded there was no cover on the policy 
for the claim. P complained to AXA who acknowledged that the claim should have been 
progressed quicker and the decision to decline cover communicated sooner. It paid £250 
compensation to recognise this. But it maintained that the claim had been correctly declined. 
P referred its complaint to our service. Our investigator thought that AXAs actions were 
reasonable. She thought that the policy terms and conditions meant that the claim, as 
described, wasnt covered. And she thought that the compensation paid was suitable in the 
circumstances.
P didnt accept this. On its behalf, Mr G argues that the claim should have been declined 
much earlier, and that as a result P may be liable for significant costs which it may not have 
been if the claim had been declined sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
P appears to accept, based on the communications with our investigator, that the policy 
doesnt cover the claim. Ill reiterate this briefly, as I agree with our investigator.
The two sections under which cover has been considered have exclusions as outlined 
below:
We will not cover claims caused by or arising from the costs of altering, recalling,
removing, reinstating, repairing, reconditioning or replacing any product or any of its
parts.
and;
We will not cover any claim arising out of any product, goods or materials that you have 
supplied or used, or made arrangements to supply or use, or the manufacture, repair, sale, 
installation or maintenance of any product by you or on your behalf
Product is defined in the policy as:
Any goods supplied to others which were sold, supplied, distributed, manufactured,
constructed, tested, serviced, maintained, repaired, installed, erected, altered, cleaned or 
treated by you.
The claim made against P followed the supply and installation of items to a third party. The 
third party claimed that the quality of the items was sub-standard and sought to recover the 
cost of refitting the items, as well as the original cost and installation charges.
I think the policy terms and conditions are clear that the circumstances of this claim arent 
covered. The claim evidently arises from the repair and refitting of the items supplied by P. 
The policy doesnt provide cover in such circumstances, and the policy terms and conditions 
clearly set this out.
It isnt disputed that this could have, and should have been, notified to P much sooner than it 
was. So I need to consider whether the £250 paid by AXA adequately recognises this. I think 
it does.
I know that P says that its ability to defend the third partys claim may be prejudiced by the 
delays. But this is, Im satisfied, hypothetical. I understand that P says by not notifying it 
sooner, it hasnt engaged with the third party (on the advice of its broker who registered the 
claim) and that the items have likely been disposed of, meaning it cant inspect them and 
refute any claims made about the items. But Im equally aware that after making the initial 
claim, theres no evidence that the third party has pursued the legal action against P. And if 
they did, they would need to prove their claim. So if they have disposed of the items, that 
might harm their claim. So, based on the evidence available to me, I cant say that P has 
suffered a financial detriment by this delay.
So, on the basis that the only detriment to P has been the lack of clarity over a prolonged 
period about whether the claim was covered, rather than a financial detriment flowing directly 
from the delays or omissions by AXA, Im satisfied that £250 suitably recognises the 
inconvenience caused by the avoidable delays.  
 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman