DRN-1930223
 
The complaint
Mrs S feels that Sainsburys Bank Plc has treated her unfairly in relation to flights she 
purchased through an intermediary.
What happened
Mrs S purchased flights with an airline through an intermediary in February 2019 by using 
her Sainsburys credit card. The flights were for the end of September 2019. Earlier in 
September the airline went bust. So she complained to the intermediary who said theyd 
done what they should have done, and the fault lay with the airline. But Mrs S couldnt 
complain to the airline as it had gone bust. So she complained to Sainsburys and wanted to 
pursue a solution to her problem through either the chargeback process or under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (and more recent related legislation).
Sainsburys investigated the matter and raised a chargeback (which the intermediary 
rebuffed) and Sainsburys decided that the type of transaction she was complaining about 
didnt fall under Section 75. So it didnt feel that it had done anything wrong regarding the 
transaction (it did offer £50 for service issues). Mrs S didnt agree so she complained here.
The investigator didnt feel any part of Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. Mrs S doesnt 
agree. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two possible avenues for this complaint to follow, namely a Section 75 claim under 
the relevant legislation or via the credit card chargeback process which is under the 
chargeback scheme rules administered by the card scheme provider.
The general effect of section 75 is that if Mrs S has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim against 
Sainsburys provided certain conditions are met. One of those conditions is that there must 
be a debtor creditor-supplier (d-c-s) relationship.
This means there needs to be pre-existing arrangements between Mrs S, Sainsburys and 
the airline that were due to provide the flights. But Mrs S used her Sainsburys credit card to 
pay the intermediary who then had a separate transaction with the airline for the flights. This 
means there was no pre-existing arrangement between Sainsburys and the airline only 
between Sainsburys and the intermediary. Therefore, there is no d-c-s relationship in relation 
to the flights because Mrs S didnt pay the airline directly.
Mrs S argues that she shouldnt be expected to understand the implications of paying a third 
party. And I can well understand her frustration with the technicality which means shes not 
getting her money back. But that doesnt mean I can say Sainsburys should refund her, or that its done something wrong by not telling her about the d-c-s implications of paying a third 
party. Sainsburys wasnt under any obligation to do this. All in all, Ive not seen enough to 
make me think that Sainsburys was wrong to turn down Mrs Ss section 75 claim. The 
conditions required to make a claim under section 75 were not met.
The chargeback process is administered by the scheme provider (not Sainsburys) and 
provides a process for banks to recover funds for its account holders in certain situations. 
Broadly speaking banks should decide whether to make a chargeback or not. But wed 
generally consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where there was a 
reasonable prospect of success. If they do, then they must do so properly. The vendor then 
receives that chargeback and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the 
chargeback. If it contests, then the bank (Sainsburys here) should consider this and then if it 
still feels the chargeback is warranted then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately 
to the scheme provider who will then make an independent determination on the matter.
Sainsburys raised the chargeback with the intermediary who responded showing it had done 
what it should have done with regard to Mrs S in arranging the flights. Sainsburys 
considered this and as it is not disputed that the flights were arranged, Sainsburys took the 
view that there was nothing to be gained by pursuing the chargeback further. I think this was 
a fair and reasonable decision to take.
Mrs S has pointed to friends whove had similar transactions refunded. This maybe so. 
Sometimes banks or merchants might refund such transactions for a variety of reasons 
including commercial reasons. However this is a decision about what Sainsburys did and I 
dont think it has acted unfairly or unreasonably here in this case.
Mrs S asks why it took so long and why did Sainsburys ask the intermediary to chargeback if 
it knew it was a third party. Sainsburys wasnt to know how the intermediary was going to 
respond-it could have made the refund. And as Ive said we consider it good process to raise 
a chargeback. Further Sainsburys had to consider both the chargeback and section 75. This 
naturally took time. I dont consider this to have a been delaying tactic or taken unreasonably 
long to do.
Mrs S has also suggested that she feels Sainsburys has treated her this way because it 
simply wants to do so. Ive seen no persuasive evidence of it treating Mrs S unfairly, 
including its offer of £50 for service issues.
In short, Ive considered everything that Mrs S has said. I appreciate how Mrs S feels about 
the whole situation. However, all in all I dont think Sainsburys has treated her unfairly with 
regard to the Section 75 issue or the chargeback. So, I have decided that this complaint 
shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman