DRN-4296012
The complaint
A charity, F, complains that First Data Europe Limited (trading as Clover) has wrongly 
retained its money.
What happened
F had a merchant services agreement with Clover, which allowed F to receive payments 
made by plastic cards.
Fs directors told us that Clover is unfairly holding on to £5,588.10 of Fs money. They say 
those funds represent payments made in late 2021, which should have been paid over to F 
but were not. They provided statements showing that Clover had collected more than 
£5,588.10 for them between July and December 2021, but they said they had received all 
but £5,588.10 of that money.
Fs directors also explained that they closed Fs old bank account in July 2021, and gave 
instructions for Fs payments to go to its new bank account instead. That didnt happen. 
They dont know why not, but they say Clover has suggested that it retained Fs funds to 
cover outstanding fees. They believe they have already paid all the fees that were due.
I dont know what Clovers position on this complaint is, because it has not fully answered 
our investigators questions about what it has done. But I can say:
Our investigator wrote to Clover on 22 February 2023 to explain that, based on the 
very limited information available to him, he thought Clover should return Fs funds 
and also pay £100 to apologise for the inconvenience it had caused.
Clover replied on 4 April 2023 to say it had arranged a refund of £100.00 in relation 
to this case. On 6 April 2023, it said we are no longer holding any funds for this 
merchant.
Fs directors told us that they had not received the £100 compensation or the funds in 
dispute. Our investigator wrote to Clover on 17 April 2023 to ask for evidence that the 
funds had been released, and for details of the account the £100 compensation had 
been paid to.
On 20 April 2023, Clovers representative said Please accept my apologies, due to 
an internal error this was raised under the head office MID. This has since been 
rectified and the merchant should receive this within 3 to 5 working days. (I am 
unclear what Clover meant by this, or by the head office MID.)
Fs directors told us they still hadnt received payment, so our investigator wrote to 
Clover again on 12 May 2023 asking for evidence that the money in question had 
been paid over to F.
Clover responded on 15 May 2023 with a statement showing that £100 had been 
credited to Fs account with Clover on 21 April 2023. But it did not provide anything to 
show that the £100 had reached Fs bank account, nor did it provide any comment on 
the funds originally complained about.
Our investigator chased Clover on 6 June 2023. It responded on the same day with 
evidence that it said showed it had refunded £455 to F  but it turned out that money 
had nothing to do with F, and in fact was a refund due to a different Clover customer.
Our investigator re-sent documents to Clover on 6 June 2023 in the hope of helping it 
to trace Fs funds. Clover acknowledged that email on 13 July 2023 with a promise to 
review Fs account that day.
We didnt hear from Clover, so our investigator telephoned on 31 July 2023. Clover 
told us verbally that it didnt hold any funds for F, and that it would email F directly 
with evidence.
Fs directors told us they still hadnt heard from Clover, so our investigator called 
Clover again on 10 August 2023. Clovers representative told him that he could see 
on Clovers system that it had sent approximately £5,000 to F  and he promised to 
provide an explanation the following day.
The investigator did not receive Clovers explanation on 11 August 2023, so he told 
both parties that he intended to refer the matter to an ombudsman.
Clover told us on 14 August 2023 that F was in arrears, due to a delay in receiving 
documentation from the merchant account manager due to the time taken to have 
this complete the merchants bank rejected the funds back to Clover Merchant 
Services, I can confirm that due to the outstanding balances on both the merchant 
accounts your funds were diverted to clear these amounts, this is in line with your 
Terms and Conditions. However, Clover did not provide any supporting information, 
and it has still not done so despite the further request our investigator made on 16 
August 2023.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 September 2023. I said:
Clover has told us both that it has paid F approximately £5,000, and that it has 
retained Fs funds to cover an outstanding debt F owed to it. But despite ample 
opportunities  and many promises to both F and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
 Clover has not told us when it paid that money to F, nor has it given us any details 
of the amount of the alleged debt. Further, Clover has not explained why a delay in 
receiving documentation would have caused F to incur a debt to Clover.
On the other hand, Fs directors have shown me evidence (in the form of account 
statements) that Clover collected £5,588.10 for F in the second half of 2021. They 
have shown me evidence that they have paid all the fees they believe are due to 
Clover. Fs directors also say they have carefully checked all of Fs accounts, and 
they are satisfied that F has not received the disputed £5,588.10 or the promised 
£100 in compensation.
I acknowledge that there is a possibility that Clover has in fact paid over the disputed 
funds. There is also a possibility that any discrepancy in the amounts paid over was 
indeed the result of a debt that F legitimately owed to Clover. However, based on the evidence currently available to me, I am persuaded by Fs directors version of events 
 and I agree that Clover is unfairly holding on to £5,588.10 of Fs funds.
I went on to say that I thought Clover should pay F £5,588.10, plus interest at 8% simple 
from 1 January 2022 until the date of settlement, plus £300 to compensate F for 
inconvenience. 
I also said that unless I received further information by 18 September 2023 that caused me 
to change my mind, my final decision was likely to be along the same lines as my provisional 
decision.
F accepted my provisional decision. Clover confirmed that it had received my provisional 
decision, but did not provide a full response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont know exactly what happened. However, I am satisfied that 
Clover has had ample opportunity to provide me with its version of events, and that in the 
circumstances it is fair for me to issue this final decision without Clovers full response. 
Based on the limited evidence available to me, I remain satisfied that Clover is unfairly 
holding on to £5,588.10 of Fs funds. My reasons are the same as those I gave in my 
provisional decision, and I now confirm those provisional conclusions as final.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Clover should pay F £5,588.10. In addition, to compensate F for 
not having access to its money, Clover should pay interest on that amount. Interest should 
be at a rate of 8% per year simple, calculated from 1 January 2022 until the date Clover 
settles this complaint.
I have chosen 1 January 2022 as the start date for the interest calculation because I think
the money Clover collected on Fs behalf during 2021 should have been handed over to F by
the beginning of 2022 at the latest. 
Clover should also pay F £300 to compensate for the inconvenience it has caused. I 
consider that amount is fair in light of Clovers continued failure to return the funds and its 
continued failure to provide F with a complete explanation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order First Data Europe Limited (trading as 
Clover) to pay compensation to F as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman