DRN-4352433
The complaint
Miss T complains about the settlement shes been paid by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) 
for a claim she made on a travel insurance policy.
Miss Ts represented by Mr T.
What happened
Miss T was abroad and was due to fly back to the UK on 9 June 2022. Upon arrival at the 
airport, she learned that her return flight had been cancelled due to adverse weather. And 
the airline couldnt offer her a new flight until 11 June 2022. So Miss T booked a new flight 
with a different airline and travelled back to the UK. She made a claim on her policy for the 
costs of the new flight, an unused train ticket and food costs.
Initially, IPA indicated that it would settle Miss Ts claim. However, it ultimately concluded 
that the costs Miss T had incurred werent covered under any section of the policy. So it 
didnt agree to pay them. But it accepted that if Miss T had waited for a return flight with her 
original airline, she wouldve been delayed abroad until 11 June 2022. So it paid her delayed 
departure benefit of £80, which represented four 12 hour periods of delay.
IPA also accepted that thered been mistakes in the way it had handled the claim and in the 
information it had given and sent to Miss Ts representative. So it paid Miss T a total of £75 
compensation to recognise the trouble and upset this had caused her.
Miss T was unhappy with IPAs settlement and so Mr T asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought that as IPA had paid Miss T delayed departure benefit, shed need 
to make a new complaint to IPA about the fact that the settlement didnt include the costs 
shed incurred as a result of the flight cancellation.
Mr T disagreed on Miss Ts behalf.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2023, which explained the reasons why I thought 
IPA had settled Miss Ts claim fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Miss Ts policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether I think 
IPA treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Miss Ts 
contract with IPA. I appreciate that Miss Ts return flight was cancelled. So I can understand 
why Miss T feels that her claim should be met under the cancellation section of the policy.
However, cancellation cover only applies if a trip itself has to be cancelled for one of a 
specific list of defined insured events. In this case, Miss Ts trip itself wasnt cancelled  
shed had the majority of her holiday and it was her return flight which was cancelled. And in 
any event, cancellation of a flight by a carrier due to bad weather isnt something which IPA 
has chosen to cover under the cancellation section of the policy. So I dont think it was unfair 
or unreasonable for IPA to conclude that Miss Ts claim wasnt covered under the 
cancellation provisions of the contract.
Having looked carefully at the remaining sections of the policy, it seems to me that the only 
applicable head of cover is Section H  Delayed Departure. This provides the following 
cover:
If you have arrived at the terminal and have checked in, or attempted to check in for your 
prebooked flight, sea crossing, international coach or international train journey from or to 
the United Kingdomand it is:
1. Delayed for more than 12 hours beyond the intended departure time.
2. Is cancelled before or after the scheduled time of departure as a result of any of the 
following events:
a. Strike or industrial action.
b. Adverse weather conditions.
c. Mechanical breakdown of or a technical fault occurring in the public transport on which
you are booked to travel.
We will pay you:
1. £20 for the first completed 12 hours delay and £20 for each full 12 hours delay after 
that, up to a maximum of £200 (which is meant to help you pay for telephone calls 
made and meals and refreshments purchased during the delay) provided you 
eventually travel.
Theres no dispute that Miss Ts original return flight was cancelled by the airline due to bad 
weather. It appears that she may have been able to return to the UK on the following day.
However, the evidence Ive seen indicates that IPA calculated benefit in line with the delay 
Miss T would likely have experienced had she waited until her original airline could offer a 
new return flight. This was a period of around 48 hours from her original planned departure 
time. In my view, this was a fair and reasonable position for IPA to take. And as IPA paid 
Miss T a total of £80 delayed departure benefit, representing four lots of 12 hour periods of 
delay, I currently think it settled the claim correctly, in line with the policy terms.
Section H also includes abandonment cover if departure is delayed by more than 12 hours, 
but this only applies if the delay happens on the outbound journey from the UK. As the delay 
happened on Miss Ts inward journey, I dont think it was unfair for IPA to conclude that Miss 
Ts claim didnt fall within the abandonment provisions. And even if it had, Miss Ts additional 
costs wouldnt have been covered under this section of the policy either.
In my view, IPA has clearly set out the insured events its chosen to cover within the contract 
terms. I appreciate Miss T had to incur additional costs through no fault of her own. But 
theres simply no cover under the policy terms for those costs, or for the cost of her unused 
train ticket. I currently think IPA has fairly settled the claim in line with the Delayed Departure 
section of the policy and has paid benefit representing the period of delay Miss T wouldve 
encountered had she not made her own arrangements. Delayed departure benefit is partly 
intended to pay for a policyholders food and meal costs.
I appreciate that during the claims process, Miss T was wrongly informed by IPA that her 
claim would be paid. I dont doubt how disappointing it was for Miss T when she learned that 
the costs shed claimed for werent covered. But Miss T had already incurred those costs 
some weeks prior to being given incorrect information by IPA. So I dont think this misinformation led Miss T to take any actions she wouldnt otherwise have done in terms of 
her return to the UK, or to pay any costs she wouldnt otherwise have incurred. This means I 
dont think IPAs misinformation caused Miss T to lose out financially.
Nonetheless, its clear that IPA didnt properly manage Miss Ts expectations about her claim 
and it also made errors in assessing the claim and in communicating with her. IPA accepts 
that it didnt handle the claim as well as it should have done. So its paid Miss T £75 
compensation to reflect this. In my view, this is a fair, proportionate and appropriate award to 
represent the likely impact I think IPAs actions had on Miss T. And its in line with what Id 
have been likely to award in the circumstances.
Mr T has since raised concerns about the sale of policies which dont cover cancellation and 
onward travel on the return journey. This policy was sold by a broker  it wasnt sold directly 
by IPA. So if Miss T feels that the policy was mis-sold to her, shed need to complain to the 
relevant broker before we could potentially look into any mis-sale complaint. And Id add that 
while Miss T may be unhappy that IPAs policy didnt cover this situation, we cant tell an 
insurer what risks it should and shouldnt cover. Im satisfied the policy terms made the 
available cover clear and that IPA assessed the claim in line with those terms.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Miss Ts position, as I understand shes been left out of 
pocket due to circumstances beyond her control, I currently find that IPA has settled her 
claim fairly. So Im not planning to direct it to pay anything more.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
IPA accepted my provisional decision.
Miss T didnt respond by either of the deadlines we gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any additional evidence or comments for me 
to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman