DRN-2175695
The complaint
Mrs and Mr N complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
We now know Mrs and Mr N were sold a single PPI policy with three different loans. The first 
loan was in 1998, and the second and third (top up loans) were in 1999 and 2000. In each 
case, Mr N was insured against being unable to work or becoming unemployed. Mrs N 
wasnt named on the PPI policy.
Single premium PPI was a type of insurance that was paid for up front in one single 
payment. So, the cost of the cover was generally added to the overall borrowing taken out. 
Interest was added to both the loan and the PPI part of the loan and paid back monthly.
What happened
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld, but Mrs and Mr N 
disagreed and the complaint to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
Mrs and Mr Ns complaint.
I think its reasonable to say that Mrs and Mr Ns recollections about this matter are 
somewhat vague. I completely understand why this would be as we are talking about events 
from over 20 years ago. There are some recollections which Im not sure can be right, such 
as Mrs N trying to make a claim on the PPI policy. As only Mr N was insured, I dont think 
this can be right.
However, Mrs and Mr Ns main allegation is that they were told the PPI was something they 
needed to buy, and they werent given any option. 
Nevertheless, as Ive said, there were three loans here and to uphold Mrs and Mr Ns 
complaint Id need to think they were told this on three different occasions. Im afraid I dont 
think this is very likely because it looks very much like the loans were postal applications. 
And Ive seen that the credit agreements used in all Mrs and Mr Ns three PPI sales 
described the PPI as optional credit insurance. Given this  and that Mrs and Mr N probably 
filled out much of the postal documentation in their own time and returned it by post to 
Nationwide - I think the optional nature of the policy would have been clear to them. Ive also 
seen nothing that implies the PPI cover was something they needed to have although I 
accept Mrs and Mr N may have since forgotten many of these details.
On the basis of what Ive seen, I think their consent for the PPI was properly obtained.
Nationwide says these werent advised sales, which accords with them being postal 
applications. Its responsibility was therefore limited to providing enough information to 
enable Mrs and Mr N to make their own decision about what they wanted to do. I obviously 
cant say that Mrs and Mr N were told everything they should have been. However, the cost 
of the PPI was set out on the forms in relation to each sale; in each case the cost of the loan, 
the PPI part of the loan, the interest and the total amounts were shown. So, I think they had 
enough information on which to make an informed decision.
Its obviously possible that Nationwide could have done things differently or provided more 
information. But I dont think this would have changed what happened. 
This is because I think Mr N was eligible for the cover and I dont think hed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policies. He told us 
he had some sickness protection already through his job, implying he didnt need any PPI. I 
can fully understand why hes told us this but Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean he didnt 
have a use for the policy. It could have paid out a monthly benefit in the event of him being 
unable to work through illness, or losing his job completely and this would have been in 
addition to any other means he and Mrs N already had in place.
All the loans and the PPI policies also ran for the same term lengths and when cashed it in 
early, Mrs and Mr N received, broadly, a proportionate sum back in comparison with how 
long into the loan period they were at that particular time.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr N, but I dont think it was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ns complaint. And I dont direct 
Nationwide Building Society to do anything to put any matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman