DRN-3455690
The complaint
Miss H complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo (Trusttwo) irresponsibly 
lent to her.  
What happened
Miss H was approved for a £5,000 guarantor loan by Trusttwo in February 2020. Miss H 
complained this loan was irresponsibly lent to her. After bringing her complaint to our 
service, our investigator recommended it be upheld and Trusttwo agreed with the outcome. 
Trusttwo put forward its offer for settlement which included the refunding of any payments 
Miss Hs guarantor had paid toward the balance of the loan. After following our services 
redress approach Trusttwo says Miss H still has an outstanding balance. Miss H disagrees 
that there is a balance outstanding and says that Trusttwo has increased her balance.
Trusttwo has confirmed the guarantor has been refunded and removed from the agreement. 
It has also confirmed the loan is still active with an outstanding balance. 
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I set my provisional findings out as 
below:
All parties agree this loan was irresponsibly lent. As such I dont need to make a 
finding in relation to that. Instead this decision will focus on the outstanding issue of 
redress; and whether Trusttwos proposed redress is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As has been explained to both parties previously, in cases involving irresponsibly 
lending which have been upheld, our service would typically expect a consumer to be 
in a position now as if they hadnt had to pay any interest or charges on the loan. 
This typically means a business will refund any interest and charges which have 
been paid plus simple interest of 8% per year.
In this instance, Trusttwo says it has reworked Miss Hs account as if she has not 
paid any interest or charges on it. That in effect means any payments Miss H has 
paid to date are treated as having been toward the capital balance (the original 
£5,000 that was lent) of the loan. This is what our service would typically expect to 
see happen in similar cases. And I believe Miss H is happy with this aspect of the 
redress put forward by Trusttwo.
The matter in dispute is the fact Miss Hs guarantor did make some contributions 
towards the loan also. Trusttwo says it has refunded these payments to the guarantor 
and has removed them from the agreement. Trusttwo has then added an amount 
onto Miss Hs balance (after the above adjustment) to reflect the payments it 
refunded to Miss Hs guarantor.
This would appear to be a reasonable thing to do in the circumstances of this case,
considering the funds were passed onto Miss H, and Trusttwo has confirmed these
payments made by the guarantor have been returned to them. So, I dont find it
unreasonable that Trustwto has reworked Miss Hs account to reflect these payments 
in this instance. This may be different if the loan had already been settled, Trusttwo 
had not been able to confirm the guarantor payments had been returned already, or it 
left Miss H is a financially disadvantageous position over the one she would have 
been in had she not made a successful complaint.
In this case, after the adjustments have been made, whilst Miss Hs overall 
outstanding balance has reduced (and she is in a better position after having raised 
this complaint), it has not done so by the amount she believes it should have. There 
is still an outstanding balance on the loan, which Trusttwo says Miss H still owes it.
Miss H is unhappy with the redress that has been put forward by Trusttwo, as she 
believes that she has repaid the capital balance that has been borrowed. However, 
from the statement of accounts that Ive been presented with Im not persuaded that 
is the case. From the information which has been provided, it appears as if Miss H 
has not yet repaid the £5,000 which she was initially lent. So, the amount which is 
still owed would appear to be a reasonable amount, that is to say Miss H is only 
being required to repay the amount she has borrowed - £5,000. This is in line with 
what our service would expect to happen, considering Miss H has had the benefit of 
the capital which has been lent.
So whilst I can appreciate Miss Hs point of view, Im currently minded to say that the 
redress Trusttwo has put forward to resolve this complaint is fair and reasonable in 
this instance.
I appreciate this outcome will come as a disappointment to Miss H, but Ill consider 
any further information she wishes to provide before making a final decision on this 
complaint.
I asked both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wished to 
provide. Trusttwo didnt respond within the relevant timeframe.
Miss H responded disagreeing with the provisional decision and provided further information 
to consider. She explained that she felt Trusttwos calculations remained incorrect and 
provided evidence of the differing remaining amounts Trusttwo has given her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Miss Hs further comments and information; and Im satisfied that 
the outcome and findings in my provisional decision should remain. 
Miss H disputes the amount outstanding and has provided further information for me to 
consider. I have carefully reviewed it, and whilst I acknowledge Miss Hs point that Trusttwo 
has provided differing amounts; Im satisfied that even with the information she has provided 
there is a balance amount outstanding. 
For clarity, from all of the information Ive seen, from both parties, Im satisfied Miss H has 
not yet repaid the total £5,000 which she was initially lent. This includes taking into account 
the removal of all interest and charges, and the recalculation of the account following the 
refund of the guarantors payments. And therefore Im satisfied it is reasonable for Trusttwo 
to request Miss H repay the amount outstanding. As Im satisfied there is a balance outstanding, it would follow that Trusttwo will need to work 
with Miss H to come up with a suitable repayment plan for the remaining amount. This will 
include Trusttwo demonstrating to Miss H the amount she has paid so far, and therefore how 
much is remaining, should she ask for it. I should point out that Miss H is not entitled to any 
refund including 8% as she has yet to repay the capital amount which has been borrowed. 
For the sake of completeness, Miss H is not required to repay more than the £5,000 she 
initially borrowed. 
So overall as Im satisfied there is an outstanding amount remaining on the capital balance, 
that Trusttwo has demonstrated it has refunded the guarantors repayments, and Miss H is 
not in a worse position as a result of this complaint; Im persuaded that Trusttwo has acted 
reasonably in the calculation of the redress in this instance.
Putting things right
All though all parties agree Trusttwo did something wrong by lending irresponsibly to Miss H, 
Im satisfied for the reasons outlined above it does not need to do anything further in terms 
of the redress due to Miss H. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, but do not require Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Trusttwo to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman