DRN-2852660
The complaint
Mr H complains about delays and problems when transferring funds from his 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (Post Office) bond. 
  
What happened
In the run up to the end of Mr Hs one year bond he sent Post Office instructions concerning 
the matured funds. Mr H instructed Post Office to send the funds to an account he has with 
another business. Mr H has explained he wanted to place his money in another savings 
account. 
Mr Hs bond matured and Post Office says it transferred his funds in line with the instructions 
and account details provided. But the funds were returned to Post Office two days later. Post 
Office subsequently sent the funds back to Mr Hs bank and this time they werent returned. 
Mr H complained and explained to process of finding out what had happened was 
complicated because he didnt have a phone and Covid restrictions meant he had trouble 
getting a family member to assist. Post Office didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and, in its final 
response, referred to the wrong business. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They didnt 
find that Post Office had made an error when processing the transfer. But the investigator 
felt Post Office couldve attempted the second transfer sooner and provided clearer 
explanations to Mr H about what had happened to his funds. The investigator recommended 
Post Office pay Mr H £75 for the trouble and upset caused. Post Office didnt agree so this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the details Post Office used to process the transfer when Mr Hs bond 
matured. I can see Post Office used the same transfer details for both attempts it made. Im 
satisfied the systems information shows the first attempt was made on the date Mr Hs bond 
matured and that the funds were returned a short time later. I dont know why the funds were 
returned, but as the same details were also used for the second transfer which was 
successful, I havent found Post Office made a mistake in the way the payments were 
processed. 
However, I agree with the investigator that Post Office couldve provided clearer information 
to Mr H and his representatives when he called to discuss his missing funds. Mr H was 
expecting his funds to reach the other business within a few days of his existing bonds 
maturity. The funds were actually sent back to Post Office two days after the original transfer 
was made. Mr H says he checked with the receiving business before contacting Post Office 
but was told his funds hadnt been received. When Mr H called Post Office, around a week 
after his bond matured, theres nothing to show he was told his funds had been returned by 
the original business which had caused a delay. I think that information wouldve saved Mr H 
a reasonable level of concern. 
Our investigator has also said Post Office couldve tried to send the funds back sooner. And 
it appears the second transfer wasnt attempted until Mr H got in touch to check what had 
happened. Post Office has confirmed the second transfer was attempted after Mr H 
contacted it. But I think Post Office couldve either asked for clarification of the details used 
or tried to make the transfer again without Mr H having to make contact. 
Ive also factored in that Mr H has told us hes vulnerable and needed to arrange for 
assistance from a family member to help resolve matters. Mr H has explained the funds he 
transferred represent his life savings and I can appreciate how concerned he was to find out 
the transfer hadnt been made in line with the instructions given. I agree with the investigator 
that the situation did unfairly impact Mr H and that Post Office couldve done more to explain 
what happened. Im satisfied the £75 award recommended by the investigator fairly reflects 
the impact of the issues raised on Mr H. So Im going to proceed in line with their view and 
tell Post Office to pay Mr H £75 for the trouble and upset caused in this case. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as 
Post Office Financial Services to pay Mr H £75.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman