DRN-2577207
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) turned down her claim for storm damage 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S contacted UKI when her roof was damaged during a storm. UKI sent someone to 
inspect the damage. UKI then turned down the claim because it said that a storm wasnt the 
main cause of the damage.
Mrs S complained to UKI. When UKI replied it said that the wind speed wasnt strong 
enough to be considered a storm. It thought that the damage had been caused by wear and 
tear and not a one-off storm.
Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that she 
thought the storm was the most likely cause of the damage and that UKI should reconsider 
the claim.
As UKI did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 22 December 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Looking at the first question, UKI said that the wind speed was 50 miles per hour, but said 
that the windspeed needed to be at least 55 miles per hour for it to be a storm. Ive looked at 
the policy documents and these dont seem to define a storm or the minimum windspeed. 
Ive also checked weather reports and these show that the windspeed reached 49 miles per 
hour around the time of the damage, which this service would normally say meets the 
definition of storm conditions. So, I think there were storm conditions around the time of the 
claim.
Ive also thought about the second question. Mrs S lives in a terraced property that has a flat 
roof shared with three neighbours. The flat roof covering lifted off the properties and allowed 
water to enter Mrs Ss home. I think that there would need to be particularly strong winds for 
the roof covering to lift in one piece, as happened in this case. Although the wind speeds 
were strong enough to be storm conditions, they were at the lower end of the scale. So I 
dont think that the damage is consistent with the type of damage that a storm would typically 
cause, as I think it is unusual for a roof covering to lift in one piece. As a result, I think the 
answer to this question is no.
Thinking about the third question, it isnt clear to me what the roof covering is made of. UKI 
thought it might be a felt roof covering, whereas Mrs S had said it is an EPDM roof (a rubber 
flat roof). So, it isnt totally clear how the roof covering should have been secured to the roof 
structure. However, whichever of those types of roof it was, it should have been bonded to 
the roof. 
Looking at the photos of the damage, the roof covering seems to have lifted in one piece and 
I can see that there are rusted nails where the roof covering was secured at the edges. The 
photos dont seem to show that the roof covering was bonded to the roof and it being lifted in 
one piece would also suggest a lack of bonding. The rusted nails around the edge of the roof 
also suggest that there were issues with how the roof was secured around the edge and that 
this may well have allowed the wind to get under the roof covering to lift it off the roof. This 
would indicate wear and tear, which is an exclusion under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. So, I also think the answer to the third question is no as I think it is more likely than 
not that the storm highlighted an existing issue with the roof covering, rather than being the 
main cause of the damage. 
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint. Looking 
at the damage to the roof, I am currently of the view that it was reasonable for UKI to turn 
down the claim on the basis that the damage wasnt caused by a one-off storm event and 
was more likely due to wear and tear.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 21 January 2021.
Mrs S, through a representative, provided a report from a surveyor giving an assessment of 
the roof. The representative also said that the claims for her neighbours roofs had been 
accepted and she queried whether I had gone beyond the scope of what was required of me 
by considering more than the wind speed to decide whether the claim should have been 
accepted.
UKI agreed with my decision. But following receipt of Mrs Ss surveyors report, it looked at it 
to see if it changed its view on whether it would accept the claim. It confirmed to this service 
that it didnt. It also confirmed again that it had looked into why the neighbours claims had 
been accepted by other insurers, one of which then decided it had made a mistake by doing 
so, but dealt with the claim anyway.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my previous decision that this complaint is not 
upheld.  I will explain why.
I understand Mrs Ss and her representatives strongly held views on this case. I have read 
all of the points that have been made and considered them, even if I dont comment on them 
here.Ive read Mrs Ss surveyors report. Having done so, this doesnt cause me to revise my view 
on the most likely cause of the damage. This is because the report confirms that the roof 
covering should have been bonded. I had already discussed this point in my provisional 
decision and explained that the roof covering lifting in one piece suggested a lack of 
bonding. This doesnt mean that I thought the roof had never been bonded. Based on the 
evidence available to me, I concluded that the bonding had failed and that this was most 
likely due to wear and tear. 
The report also discussed the nails and said these werent part of securing the roof covering. 
However, even if that was the case, in my view the roof covering wouldnt have lifted in the 
way that it did if it had been bonded to the roof at the time of the storm.
Im aware that as part of this, Mrs Ss representative suggested that we contact the company 
that built the house. However, that wouldnt show that the bonding was still in place at the 
time of the storm, so I dont think this would help in my decision-making.
When I issued my provisional decision, I was aware that Mrs S had said that the neighbours 
claims had been accepted. I can understand that Mrs S thinks this means her claim should 
also be accepted. However, I have to make my decision on the basis of the evidence 
available to me. The neighbours werent insured by UKI, so I dont have access to what 
those other insurers considered or their full reasons for why they accepted the claims. UKI 
has said that one of the other insurers said that, based on the wind speed, it should actually 
have turned down the claim. However, I dont have a view on that claim one way or the other 
because I dont know what considerations applied to it. I also asked Mrs Ss representative if 
she was able to provide any expert evidence that was considered as part of those other 
claims, but none was available. So, beyond being told the other claims were accepted, I 
dont have any more details or evidence to add to my consideration of whether Mrs Ss claim 
should be accepted. That the other claims were accepted doesnt in itself persuade me that 
Mrs Ss claim should have been accepted, including when looked at in the context of the 
other evidence available to me.
Mrs Ss representative has also asked whether Ive gone beyond my remit by looking at 
more detail than just whether there were storm conditions to decide whether UKI should 
have accepted the claim. The simple answer to that question is no. However, to expand 
further, there are a range of scenarios where something could happen during a storm that 
wouldnt mean that the storm was the reason for that issue happening. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect an insurer to accept a claim for something simply because there was a 
storm at the time. There has to be consideration of whether the storm was a factor in what 
happened and, if so, in what way. Only considering whether there was a storm wouldnt 
show that a claim was valid or allow for any exclusions in the terms and conditions to be 
considered.
So, having thought about what happened in this case again, including the additional 
comments and the report, I remain of the view that this complaint is not upheld and that UKI 
doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is this 
complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman