DRN-3460035
The complaint
Ms T is a sole trader. She complains that her Bounce Back Loan agreement with HSBC UK 
Bank Plc isnt regulated under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and that the bank failed to 
make her aware of this.
What happened
Ms T took out a Bounce Back Loan with HSBC in May 2020. She borrowed £7,140.
Last year, Ms T raised queries with HSBC as to whether the loan was regulated under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in order to understand the level of protection that she 
had. Ms Ts enquiries were ultimately dealt with by way of complaint. HSBC responded to 
advise that while lending of £25,000 or under to sole traders like Ms T would usually be 
regulated under the CCA, changes were made to the legislation that excluded lending 
provided through the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
Ms T asked us to look into things. She said that HSBC had failed to highlight to her that the 
loan wouldnt be regulated, in accordance with regulatory requirements. She also said she 
remained unsure as to the level of protection available to her and was concerned about the 
possible consequences of defaulting on the agreement, which was causing her significant 
stress.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that changes to the relevant 
legislation had been made to exempt Bounce Back Loans from certain CCA provisions, 
which she thought had been made clear to Ms T in the application form she completed 
before agreeing to the loan. 
Ms T maintained that the loan agreement itself hadnt been provided in the requisite format 
and didnt agree that the documentation shed completed had been clear on the point at 
issue. So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to Ms Ts complaint. One is whether her Bounce Back Loan is 
covered by the CCA (and to what extent). The other is whether HSBC took reasonable steps 
to make her aware of the correct position.
On the first point, Bounce Back Loans were specifically exempted from certain provisions 
within the CCA that would otherwise have applied. This is set out in publicly available 
guidance issued by the British Business Bank, the government-owned bank that 
administered the government-backed loan schemes including Bounce Back Loans. 
On the second, I can see that this information was then relayed to Ms T during the 
application process. The application form that Ms T completed required her to confirm, 
amongst other things, that:
I/we understand that this loan, made under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, 
is not subject to the usual consumer protections that apply to business 
lending and as such I/we will not have the benefit of the protection and 
remedies that would otherwise be available to me/us under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 or the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
And that:
I am/We are aware that, if I am/we are in any doubts as to the 
consequences of the agreement not being regulated  then I/we should 
seek independent legal advice. I/We acknowledge that the lender is not 
responsible for informing me/us about these consequences.
So I think HSBC took reasonable steps to make Ms T aware that the agreement wasnt 
subject to the usual protections that would otherwise have been available through the CCA. 
It provided the above information in the manner prescribed by the British Business Bank, 
which Ms T was required to read and accept before proceeding with her application.
Ms T is unhappy that this information wasnt further relayed in the loan agreement itself, but 
there was no requirement for this. She suggests that this is a breach of certain consumer 
credit regulations, but these dont apply to her Bounce Back Loan with HSBC and so there 
was no need for it to be drawn up in the format she suggests.
Lastly, I should highlight again that not all the CCA protections have been removed from 
lending provided through a Bounce Back Loan. Of particular significance given Ms Ts 
concerns as to what might happen should she fall behind on repayments is that the 
collection of these loans is regulated in the same way as any other lending. So Ms T retains 
the protection offered by the CCA in this regard. She may wish to seek legal advice if she 
remains unsure as to the level of protection or remedies available to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman