DRN-2798085
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Godiva Mortgages Limited didnt reduce the interest rate on his two 
buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of England 
base rate (base rate). Hes said that when the base rate increased those increases were 
passed on straight away, but when the base rate fell Godiva chose not to pass those 
reductions on.
What happened
Mr P applied for the first BTL mortgage through a third-party mortgage broker. A mortgage 
offer was issued in August 2017 which set out the terms of the mortgage contract. That said 
Mr P was borrowing £204,487 over 18 years on an interest-only basis. The product was 
called Flexx for Term and that was described in the offer as A variable rate, currently 
2.09%, which is managed by Godiva Mortgages Limited and is set independently of its 
Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage 
term. The mortgage completed in September 2017.
In November 2017 Godiva wrote to Mr P to tell him the interest rate, and therefore the 
monthly payments, on his BTL mortgage was going up. The letter said In line with the terms 
and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our variable 
mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base Rate and 
the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result the rate you pay on your mortgage 
is increasing to 2.34%.
Mr P applied for the second BTL mortgage through a different third-party mortgage broker. A 
mortgage offer was issued in December 2017 which set out the terms of the mortgage 
contract. That said Mr P was borrowing £62,500 over 20 years on an interest-only basis. The 
product was called Flexx for Term and that was described in the offer as A variable rate, 
currently 1.85%, which is managed by Godiva Mortgages Limited and is set independently of 
its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage 
term. The mortgage completed in January 2018.
Further rate increase letters were sent in August 2018  one for each mortgage account - 
with broadly the same wording as the November 2017 letter, this time the interest rates were 
increasing to 2.59% and 2.10% respectively.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr G complained to Godiva after the base rate reduction as he was unhappy that it hadnt 
reduced his interest rates, instead it had kept the rates for his Flexx for Term products the 
same.
Godiva didnt uphold the complaint. It said in its final response letter of 23 June 2020 that it 
had to make some difficult decisions with all its customers in mind. It reminded Mr P that 
there were no early repayment charges (ERC) on his mortgage accounts so he could move 
to a different product  or lender  if he wanted to.
As Mr P didnt agree he referred his complaint to this service. In his complaint letter to us 
Mr P said hed asked Godiva to disclose the records of reasons for the decision to increase 
the rate when the base rate increased, and not to reduce it when it fell. He said that he takes 
all the risk, and Godiva makes an unjustified profit and that a flex mortgage should move in 
both directions.
Our investigator considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
Godiva had made Mr P aware of the type of interest rate he was taking out each 
time.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and 
he thought Godiva had exercised those terms fairly.
There were no obvious barriers to Mr P either taking a new product with Godiva or 
moving his mortgages to a new lender if he felt the interest rates were no longer 
competitive.
The pandemic was an extraordinary situation that meant Godiva needed to offer 
support to borrowers that were struggling, and it had to move to running its 
operations remotely. He felt the substantial challenge provided by the pandemic led 
to changes in the way any lender would need to run its business.
The current interest rates of 2.59% and 2.10% respectively were competitive rates 
across the wider BTL mortgage market, particularly for products offering such 
flexibility.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators assessment. He said, in summary:
Our investigator had decided that it is fair for him to bear all the costs of interest rate 
rises but receive none of the benefit of interest rate falls.
It appears Godiva can charge whatever it likes, which is unfair.
The interest rate was increased precisely in line with the base rate, but there was no 
reduction when it decreased.
If there is a reason to increase the interest rates because of increased costs in 
providing the mortgage, then those costs must have fallen when the interest rate 
decreased but no change was made to reflect that.
As Mr P didnt agree with our investigators assessment his complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Its the nature of what we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the 
other. Our findings are based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made 
by both parties. We look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, 
regulations, good industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, 
the lender acted fairly and reasonably.
The starting point here are the mortgage contracts that Mr P entered into, and whether the 
nature of the product was fairly explained by Godiva in the paperwork at the time. I cant 
consider any advice that was given, as the mortgage brokers were third parties acting on 
behalf of Mr P.
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The mortgage offer for the first property provides the following descriptions of the product:
GFC50  BTL Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 2.09%, which is managed by 
Godiva Mortgages Limited and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the 
Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Company at 
a rate, currently 2.09%, which will be set independently of The Companys Standard 
Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
The mortgage offer for the second property provides the following descriptions of the 
product:
GFC57  BTL Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 1.85%, which is managed by 
Godiva Mortgages Limited and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the 
Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Company at 
a rate, currently 1.85%, which will be set independently of The Companys Standard 
Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From that we can see the Flexx for Term product is a variable rate product that isnt linked to 
either the standard variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage 
product.
At the time Mr P took out the first mortgage, whilst Godiva had changed the Flexx for Term 
products rate by the same differential the three previous times the base rate had changed, 
the three base rate changes before that hadnt been reflected with a matching differential 
change across the board.
I understand Mr P believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the base rate 
is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate products. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that Godiva told Mr P that his interest rates would always change 
in line with the base rate, and his mortgage offers clearly explain the interest rates are set 
independently of the base rate.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Godiva set out the details of the interest rates of 
the products clearly and unambiguously, explaining they werent linked to the base rate. 
Although Im satisfied Mr P wasnt misled as to the nature of the interest rates of the 
products, I still need to decide if Godiva acted fairly.Was it fair for Godiva to increase the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The mortgage conditions issue 2 booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
4.5 Unless the Offer says otherwise, we can change the applicable Interest Rate for any of 
the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances existing at the time or those 
which are expected to apply in the near future):
4.5.1 (i) to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate, or mortgage or 
investment rates generally;
(ii) to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
(iii) to meet relevant regulatory requirements;
(iv) to respond to new (or changes to any) statements or codes of practice 
designed to enhance consumer protection;
(v) to respond to changes in the costs or risks incurred by us in providing the 
mortgage;
(vi) to respond to increased cost or risk incurred as a result of any change of use 
of the Property (for example, if you let the Property, with or without our 
permission); or
(vii) for any other reason set out specifically in the Offer.
The increases in 2017 and 2018 were due to clause 4.5.1(i) and 4.5.1(v); that is, an increase 
in the base rate, and changes in the costs incurred by Godiva in respect of mortgage 
lending. But although the condition says the interest rate may change when base rate 
changes, it doesnt say it has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Mr P said the interest rate was increased precisely in line with BoE rates but there was no 
reduction at all when they decreased. If there is a reason to increase them because of 
increased costs in providing the mortgage then those costs must fall when the interest rate 
decreases and yet no change was made at all to reflect this.
I agree Godivas costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus 
Godiva also increased the interest rate on their Flexx for Term products by the same amount 
of percentage points. 
But I dont agree that it must follow that Godivas costs decreased in March 2020 as the 
costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr Ps mortgages in 
isolation. The base rate decreased, but Godiva incurred additional costs across its mortgage 
function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning mortgage payments werent being made when expected, and needing to move to a remote way of 
working, for example. 
Godiva has sent us information in confidence which shows why the Flexx for Term interest 
rates werent reduced in 2020. Were unable to disclose that information to Mr P as it is 
commercially sensitive, but Ive considered the information very carefully and Im satisfied 
that Godivas decision wasnt unfair. Im satisfied Godiva has shown that the events of 2020 
were different to those of 2017 and 2018, and Im satisfied that Godiva has shown that its 
costs increased in 2020 even though base rate fell. 
Godiva needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those people that 
needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with the base 
rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of uncertainty. 
Godiva made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those borrowers that were on a 
much higher variable rate than Mr P (customers were paying 4.99% on the standard variable 
rate, compared to the 2.59% and 2.10% Mr P was paying). That seems a fair decision for 
Godiva to have made. 
It is unfortunate here that the base rate reduction came at a time Godiva suffered from 
increased costs so it wasnt able to reduce the products interest rate at that time. But the 
last three times the base rate had been reduced (going back to February 2009), Godiva had 
reduced the interest rate for the Flexx for Term product by the same amount of percentage 
points.
Mr P has the flexibility to switch to another interest rate product with Godiva at any time if he 
no longer felt the Flexx for Term product offered value for money. Im satisfied that other 
interest rate products were available for Mr Ps mortgages if he had wanted to switch to them 
and that there would have been no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) to pay or other 
contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
He could also have shopped around and remortgaged to another lender, if he felt the interest 
rate products offered by Godiva werent competitive in the market. Mr P doesnt have to 
apply for another product with Godiva or another lender if he doesnt want to. But if he 
doesnt apply for another product then Mr P will remain on the Flexx for Term interest rates  
which Godiva may or may not vary, in line with the terms and conditions, in the future. 
From my wider knowledge of the BTL mortgage market, I consider that the interest rates 
even remaining at 2.10% and 2.59% respectively are competitive bearing in mind the level of 
flexibility the product offers. However, if Mr P doesnt agree he has the option to remortgage 
to another lender and the only cost currently of ending these Godiva mortgages is a £125 
mortgage exit fee (as set out in his mortgage offer). Alternatively that fee wouldnt be 
charged if he chooses to simply change to a new product with Godiva instead. 
Godiva tells me the process to take out a new product is simple to make it easy for existing 
customers to get access to new interest rate products. So Im satisfied there were no 
practical or contractual barriers preventing Mr P from coming out of these mortgage products 
if he wanted to look for another interest rate either with Godiva or elsewhere. It seems Mr P 
could have taken out another product, but he chose not to.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ps frustration that his mortgage interest rates werent reduced Im 
satisfied Godiva didnt act unfairly when it increased the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, but 
then didnt reduce the interest rate in line with the base rate reductions in 2020.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr P may want me to.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman