DRN-2374876
The complaint
Mr L, through his representative, has complained that he was wrongly advised to contract-
out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) by Co-operative Insurance 
Society (CIS), now part of Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. 
Mr L signed the application for his policy with CIS on 23 September 1991 to contract-out of 
SERPS from 6 April 1991. He contracted back into SERPS from 6 April 2003.
What happened
In early 2020 Mr L, through his representative, complained to Royal London. The main 
complaint points were: 
Mr L had little experience or knowledge of pensions or investments. He accepted the 
advice as being in his best interests. 
The advice to contract-out had been in breach of the then regulators (LAUTRO - Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation) rules at the time. The adviser 
also had a duty under common law to act with reasonable skill and care. That 
included not exposing the client to unnecessary risks, costs, complexity or taxation. 
Disclosure of the risks and alternatives was also required to allow informed consent. 
A client shouldnt be exposed to unnecessary fund costs. Due consideration should 
be given to low cost funds and the client warned about the risks of higher cost 
alternatives which are unlikely to outperform and make up the extra costs. A client 
should be told about all costs. Costs should be kept to a minimum and avoided 
altogether, particularly if the alternative comes with guarantees and/or protection 
against inflation. 
Mr L shouldnt have been exposed to the risk of significantly lower retirement income 
as a result of contracting-out. If hed have been warned of that risk, he wouldnt have 
accepted the advice to contract-out. He gave up valuable income guarantees in 
favour of a pension linked to the stock market. He shouldnt have been exposed to 
the risks of giving up inflation protected benefits  the effect of inflation will reduce 
the purchasing power of his pension substantially. 
Mr L had been exposed to unnecessary fund costs. He hadnt been properly 
informed of the inherent risks in the product recommended or all the associated 
investment costs. The return hed received had been poor. That must be due to 
excessive costs, poor management or a combination of the two. 
Royal London didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its approach was to ascertain whether 
the advice to opt out was suitable at the time it was given. That predominantly revolved 
around the age of the policyholder at the time and their expected earnings. Mr L met the 
criteria at the time and it appeared that contracting-out was likely to be beneficial. Royal 
London said it was made clear to Mr L there was no guarantee the benefits the policy 
provided would definitely be higher than those given up under SERPS. 
Over the years the criteria for those policyholders CIS felt were likely to be beneficial, based 
on reasonable assumptions, to remain opted out of SERPS changed. Mr L continued to 
meet the criteria up until March 2004 when he was mailed. He opted back into SERPS from 
6 April 2003.
Mr Ls representative referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it but 
didnt recommend it should be upheld. The investigator said that no detailed fact find or 
recommendation letter was required at the time. The only considerations were Mr Ls 
minimum earnings and his age. The investigator explained that pension providers had set 
the maximum ages  known as the pivotal age  for men and women where they might be 
expected to be better off by contracting-out. And some providers, including Royal London, 
also set a minimum earnings level. Mr L was 27 at the time of the advice, so he was well 
under the pivotal age at the time. His estimated earnings for the 1991/1992 tax year were 
£7,200 which was above the £2,704 minimum earnings level.  
Mr Ls representative didnt agree. It said the investigator had been wrong to say the only 
considerations were Mr Ls minimum earnings and his age. The adviser was also obliged to 
advise Mr L of the risk that contracting-out of SERPS might result in a lower pension income. 
That hadnt happened. Mr L wouldnt have wanted to take that risk. 
In response, the investigator corrected what hed said about the only considerations being 
Mr Ls minimum earnings and his age. Those were the main factors. There wasnt 
information as to what Mr Ls attitude to risk had been at the time. But, given the length of 
time until his retirement and the potential hed be better off, the advice to contract-out of 
SERPS was suitable at the time. 
The time that had passed meant details of what was said during the meeting wont be clear. 
So the investigator had relied on what evidence was available. Royal London had provided a 
copy of its No Cost-Extra Pension booklet. It included the following: The real benefit is that 
all these contributions investedcould actually produce a better pension for you than if you 
had remained in SERPS. It went on to say that the position would depend on the individuals 
own circumstances and the return achieved from the investments. There was never a 
guarantee that the personal pension would match or exceed what a SERPS offered. It was 
reasonable to suggest Mr L wouldve been aware there was a risk he might receive a lower 
pension income. 
Royal London hadnt been able to provide the illustrations that Mr L wouldve been shown at 
the time of the advice but a specimen copy had been supplied. The notes to the document 
confirmed that the illustrations werent a guarantee and that the figures given complied with 
the rates of return and other factors as set out in the LAUTRO bases. 
In response, Mr Ls representative said that the investigator had referred to the potential for 
Mr L to be better off as a result of contracting-out of SERPS. But there was also the potential 
for him to be worse off and that risk hadnt been explained to him. If it had been, he wouldnt 
have chosen to take it. Mr Ls representative maintained the advice was unsuitable for both a 
legal and regulatory perspective. A referral to an ombudsman was requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that the advice that Mr L take out a personal 
pension with CIS and contract-out of SERPS in 1991 wasnt unsuitable
Ill first set out some background to contracting-out of SERPS. Until 1988, individuals could 
only contract-out of SERPS if they were members of a defined benefit (final salary) occupational pension scheme. In 1988 the government extended this to defined 
contribution (money purchase) occupational schemes and personal pensions. If an individual 
contracted out of SERPS using an appropriate personal pension, instead of a proportion of 
their National Insurance contributions being used to top up their SERPS entitlement, they 
received rebates that were invested in a fund with their pension provider. It was hoped the 
fund would outperform SERPS growth, based on the National Earnings Index. 
The government also wanted to give individuals more choice about how their pension was 
provided and to shift pension provision from the state to the private sector. The level of 
rebate to be applied had to be decided. If the rebates were set too low, then the SERPS 
pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment in the personal pension. If 
set too high, the government would be paying more than it needed to offset the cost of its 
SERPS liabilities. 
The level of rebate for contracted out individuals was set by the government after taking 
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). The government set rates at a 
level so as to encourage contracting-out. When the contracting-out process begun the 
GADs recommendations on the rebate levels were criticised as being too generous. But, in 
addition to the rebate level suggested by GAD, the government added an additional 2% 
annual incentive payment that would apply until 1993.
The rebate % level was set as standard for all. That meant it was less beneficial for older 
people to contract-out, as they had less time before retirement to benefit from investment 
growth on their rebates. So, for older people, the comparative benefit given up in SERPS 
would likely outweigh that received by contracting-out.
The government didnt give advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and for 
whom it was expected that contracting-out would be beneficial. But it was clear that age was 
the key factor. Actuaries at various pension providers carried out comparisons of the 
projected benefits from SERPS (based on the National Earnings Index) against its 
alternative personal pension arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely 
future investment returns) to decide who would likely benefit.
The ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract-out or not changed were 
called pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used to determine 
whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting-out. LAUTRO 
didnt determine the pivotal ages. Product providers established their own pivotal ages 
based on their own product terms and charges. Some providers also set minimum earnings 
levels. 
LAUTRO also had specific requirements in connection with contracting-out of SERPS. It 
required its members to present illustrations for customers considering contracting-out in a 
specified way. Firms were required to use a premium for illustration purposes of the 
minimum rebate payable for that year. And the projections were set at two specified rates  
what LAUTRO termed real rates of return (taking into account the effects of inflation). The 
rates of return were set as 0.5% and 2.5% above the National Average Earnings Index. The 
projections were to include charges. If real rates of return werent used, the corresponding 
nominal rates of return could be used of 8.5% and 13% inclusive of charges. 
LAUTRO also required the annuity illustrated to be on a comparable basis to the SERPS 
pension paid. So the annuity bases had to take into account indexation and would increase 
at 3% per annum to mirror the inflation protection offered by SERPS. The annuity projected 
would also include a 50% spouses pension, again in line with SERPS.Turning to Mr Ls complaint, Im required under DISP (Dispute Resolution) 3.6.4R, in 
considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, to take into 
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Im 
considering the complaint on the basis of what the circumstances, including the advisers 
obligations, were at the time. 
Mr L was advised to contract-out in 1991. CIS was a member of LAUTRO at the time and 
bound by LAUTROs rules and its code of conduct. While I agree that the adviser had 
responsibilities under common law (including not making negligent misstatements; to 
disclose all material information; and to advise with reasonable skill and care), the LAUTRO 
code encompassed the common law duties and imposed higher requirements. So, in the 
main, Ive concentrated on the code. 
The overriding principle was that advisers were required to exercise due skill, care and 
diligence and deal fairly with investors. The code also required company representatives to 
give best advice. That included giving the investor all relevant information and using best 
endeavors to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks involved. The code 
also said a company representative shall, in advising an investor as to the suitability for that 
investor of any investment contract, have regard, in particular, to the investors financial 
position generally, to any rights he may have under an occupational pension scheme or 
SERPS and to use best endeavours to ensure that only those contracts which are suited to 
that investor were recommended. 
My understanding is that, up to and including the 1992/1993 tax year, CIS allowed all men 
aged 64 and under and all women aged 59 and under to contract-out of SERPS. Royal 
London has pointed to guidance issued on 12 April 1988 which referred to the fact that, 
because the premium paid by the then DHSS didnt vary with age, the older the person was 
the less advantageous it was to contract-out of SERPS. Men aged 50 or over and women 
aged 45 or over were required to sign a declaration saying they were fully aware they may 
be financially better off remaining in SERPS.  I dont see thats directly relevant to Mr L as he 
was aged 27 at the time of the advice in 1991.
 
I note the booklet that Mr L was given said, although the position would depend on the 
individuals own circumstances as well as investment returns, that men under 45 or women 
under 40 would likely be better off opting out until at least 1993. So, in Mr Ls case, it seems 
the pivotal age was 45. As far as Im aware CIS hadnt then set any minimum salary 
requirement. But the individuals earnings would have to be over the lower earnings limit at 
the time. 
Ive checked other pension providers criteria in 1991. Many, like CIS, didnt specify a 
minimum salary. And some providers pivotal ages were higher than CIS. I think CIS 
approach was in line with the industry generally. In saying that, I accept that evidence as to 
what other providers were doing might not be conclusive and could simply demonstrate that 
there was widespread bad practice at the time. But I dont think thats the case here. In the 
context of what Ive said about how contracting-out of SERPS for individuals came about, 
the incentives offered and the economic climate at the time, I think CIS acted correctly in 
setting criteria to identify those individuals who it seemed would be likely to benefit from 
contracting-out via a personal pension policy, based on age and earnings. 
Its clear that Mr L met CIS criteria for those that would likely benefit from contracting-out of 
SERPS. In 1991, when the advice was given, Mr L was aged 27 and his estimated earnings 
for the 1991/1992 tax year were £7,200. So he was very comfortably younger than the 
pivotal age. And his earnings exceeded, by some margin, the lower earnings limit, which 
was then £2,704. When CIS advised Mr L to contract-out, I think it was reasonable to believe hed be better off as a result. He was in the age group who it was considered would likely 
benefit from that option, provided his earnings were sufficient, which they were.
But I agree with Mr Ls representative that those werent the only considerations. Although I 
think, at the time, contracting-out wouldve been regarded as relatively low risk  the terms 
offered and assumed growth and annuity rates in the 1980s and early 1990s suggested that 
contracting-out was likely to be beneficial for many - contracting-out would only be suitable 
for Mr L if he was prepared to take some risk. 
Mr Ls representative says Mr L wasnt told there was a risk he might be worse off as a result 
of contracting-out and that was a risk he wouldnt have wanted to take. As Ive said above, 
CIS representative was required, amongst other things, to use best endeavors to enable the 
investor to understand the nature of any risks involved.
A difficulty here is that the advice complained of was given some 30 years ago. The 
contemporaneous written evidence is limited. Theres no record of the level of risk Mr L was 
prepared to take at the time. Requirements are more stringent now and thered usually be a 
questionnaire or other documented attitude to risk analysis. Nor is there any suitability letter 
or record of what was discussed when Mr L met with CIS representative. Mr L may not now 
recall that the risk that he might be worse off by contracting-out of SERPS was discussed. 
But, given the passage of time, memories may have faded, making it difficult to remember 
everything that may have been talked about and in what context. 
Where, as here, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. My starting point is such 
contemporaneous documentary evidence as there is and if it sheds any light on what may 
have been discussed. I dont think its unreasonable to assume thered likely have been 
some conversation about any literature that was produced. Even if that wasnt the case, I 
cant see that CIS representative is likely to have said anything which directly conflicted with 
the written information he gave Mr L. 
The No Cost-Extra Pension brochure Mr L was given referred to changes to pension 
legislation which could have a significant effect on income in retirement and which allowed 
employees to exercise more choice with their own pension planning. It went on to say that 
SERPS benefits would be reduced for everyone retiring from 2000 onwards. But there was 
an alternative  the freedom to opt out of SERPS and set up your own individual personal 
pension. And the brochure went on: Opting out doesnt cost you a penny extra in 
contributions and, in fact, it could do you a lot of good. Theres no catch, it is really very 
simple 
The brochure went on to explain that part of the National Insurance contributions paid into 
SERPS would be paid instead by the government into the policyholders own personal 
pension, together with tax relief. And that an extra 2% for each year opted out, up until April 
1993, would be paid into the pension. 
I dont think theres any doubt that opting out of SERPS was presented in positive terms. But 
the brochure did go on to say (and as the investigator pointed out) that the real benefit was 
that the contributions invested with CIS could (my emphasis) produce a better pension than 
remaining in SERPS. The brochure also said that it was expected that, a man under 45 
(such as Mr L), was likely to be better off opting out, until at least 1993 (which was when the 
terms changed). But the brochure stopped short of saying that would definitely be the case. I 
think Mr L wouldve been aware there was no guarantee hed definitely be better off and hed 
have known there was a risk he could be worse off. The brochure also said the pension that would be provided would depend on the investment returns that CIS was able to achieve. So 
I think Mr L wouldve known that there was an investment risk. 
Mr L would also have been given a personal illustration. Unfortunately no copy has been 
retained but Ive no reason to think that Mr L didnt get one at the time. A specimen copy has 
been provided. It includes various notes. 
Note 4 says the illustrations are to provide an indication of the possible benefits that 
might be paid under this policy and a comparison between the possible benefit under your 
policy and the SERPS benefit you will be giving up [all my emphasis]. I think it was clear that 
the illustration was exactly that and that the benefits shown as to what the personal pension 
might provide were estimates only and not guaranteed. 
The note went on to say that LAUTRO (as Ive referred to above) had made rules which laid 
down two bases on which future benefits must be illustrated. And that the pensions 
illustrated were in a form which could be compared with the SERPS benefits to be given up 
and the figures quoted in the illustrations complied with the rates of return and other factors 
as set out in the LAUTRO bases. The note added that the two amounts (shown on the 
illustrations) didnt represent the upper and lower limits of the possible amount of the benefit. 
The actual comparison with the SERPS benefit given up would be affected by the bonuses 
added to the policy, the terms ruling at the date of retirement for converting cash into 
pension and future increases in national average earnings. 
I note that the personal pension did provide a guaranteed sum assured plus possible 
bonuses and a guaranteed annuity rate. But the notes to the illustration did make it clear that 
there were factors which could affect the benefits that the personal pension might provide. 
Although the illustration wouldve indicated that Mr L was likely to be better off by 
contracting-out, I think hed have been aware that there was no guarantee that what hed get 
from his personal pension with CIS would match or exceed his SERPS entitlement. And that 
it would depend on investment returns plus the other factors referred to in note 4. 
It follows I dont think the advice was unsuitable because Mr L wasnt told there was a risk he 
could be worse off. I think its likely he was told and hed have known that from the literature 
he received. Hed also have known that what hed get at retirement would depend on 
investment returns and other factors. Although the expectation at the time was that hed be 
better off contracting-out, there was no promise or guarantee to that effect. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr L was completely risk averse. I dont think the advice was 
unsuitable because it represented a risk that Mr L wasnt told about and/or wasnt prepared 
to accept. 
From what Ive seen I dont think there was any breach of the LAUTRO code or the advisers 
common law duties. The documentation Ive seen (albeit limited) indicates that Mr L was 
given the relevant information, including as to the risk that he could be worse off by 
contracting-out. I havent seen anything to suggest that CIS representative made any 
negligent mis statements. And, given that I think the recommendation was suitable for Mr L 
at the time, I cant say CIS representative didnt act with reasonable skill and care. I think it 
was fair and reasonable at the time to assume that hed likely benefit from contracting-out of 
SERPS. 
A court case has also been referred to by Mr Ls representative  Montgomery v Lanarkshire 
Health Board 2015 UKSC 11. It concerned a doctors duty to ensure a patient is aware of 
any material risk. I dont think the case is directly relevant here. Particularly as my view is 
that Mr L was likely to have been informed he could be worse off by contracting-out.  Mr Ls representative has also mentioned charges and their effect on fund performance. Its 
unclear if charges were discussed with Mr L. Royal London says CIS wasnt obliged at the 
time to disclose costs and charges (and I note that the brochure doesnt deal with charges). 
But charges had to be taken into account in the illustration provided. Ive no reason to think 
that wasnt the case. 
I note that Mr Ls policy was invested in the with profits fund. Although other concerns may 
arise with that type of type of fund (for example, about bonus payments) the level of charges 
(which may be implicit) isnt usually an issue. I dont think the comments about paying higher 
charges for an actively managed fund which might not deliver an improved performance are 
particularly relevant here or meant that the advice was unsuitable from a charges 
perspective. 
I dont know if Mr L has actually suffered a loss and, if so, the extent. But, even if a loss has 
resulted from the period in which Mr L was contracted out of SERPS, that doesnt 
necessarily mean the advice must have been unsuitable at the time it was given. Since 1991 
investment conditions have been far less favorable than anticipated. And annuity rates have 
decreased (although it seems Mr L may have been protected to some extent at least as his 
policy included a GAR). All in all I maintain that at the time it was reasonable to assume that 
Mr L would be better off by opting out of SERPS. Against that background, I dont think the 
advice to contract-out was unsuitable and so Im not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman