DRN-2392590
The complaint
Mrs P, who is represented by Mr C, complains that FCE Bank Plc mis-sold her a finance 
agreement to purchase a new car.
What happened
In April 2017 Mrs P, who is elderly, entered into a finance agreement with FCE for 
acquisition of a new car on a 39 month term. The agreement shows that monthly 38 
payments of £137.68 were payable together with a final payment of £6,025 by 1 July 2020. 
Mrs P says she believed the agreement was similar to other ones she had taken out with 
FCE previously and which had no final balloon payment. She has said she was shocked to 
be asked to a final sum and thought the car would be hers at the end of the 39 months.
Mrs P raised a complaint with FCE and explained that if she had been aware of the large 
final payment, she would not have entered into the contract. FCE didnt uphold her complaint 
and said that while the final payment may have come as a shock given all the paperwork she 
had signed it did not think the agreement was mis-sold.
Mrs P brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
She noted Mrs P had entered into a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) which is a form of 
Hire Purchase (HP), but a substantial portion of the amount borrowed is left at the end of the 
loan. She explained that where a straightforward HP divides the total amount borrowed into 
equal monthly payment over the term of the agreement  the PCP involves a series of 
smaller monthly payments, with a larger payment at the end of the agreement.
She said this balloon payment was set down in Mrs Ps agreement. Our investigator said 
that had Mrs P taken out a HP agreement her monthly payments would have been more 
than double and in the end she would have been asked to pay the same sum under both 
types of finance. After she complained the dealer offered her a modified agreement under 
which she would pay £300 a month to clear the balance, but she obtained the money from a 
member of the family.
Mr C didnt agree and said if Mrs P had known about the balloon payment she would not 
have gone ahead with the sale and she would have kept her old car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mrs P, but I do not consider I can uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
I gather Mrs P has bought four or five cars from the same garage over the years and none of 
the agreements has contained a balloon payment. She therefore assumed this agreement 
would be the same. As I wasnt present at the sale I cannot say what was said by either 
party. I accept that Mrs P presumed the agreement was similar to previous ones.
I have noted that the previous agreement was for £2,500 with monthly payments of £76.94 
over three years. The disputed agreement shows she borrowed £11,256.84 with monthly 
£137.68. Looking at those figures it would be unrealistic to expect to have repaid the total 
sum borrowed by paying £137.68 over 38 payments. 
The paperwork shows the balloon payment very clearly and I do not know what the sales 
representative told her, but I have not been given any evidence that he/she could have 
misled Mrs P other than her being surprised some three years later that there was more to 
pay. I appreciate Mrs P is elderly and may not have given close attention to the agreement, 
but I cannot see how I can conclude there was a mis-sale. There may have been a 
misunderstanding, but that does not mean I can safely uphold this complaint.
I believe Mrs P is wholly genuine in her recollections and as I have said already she has my 
heartfelt sympathy, but I cannot reasonably conclude FCE did anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman