DRN-3271433
The complaint
Mr C makes a number of complains about Starling Bank Limited following an attempt to 
transfer money out of his account.
What happened
Mr C says he paid over €100,000 into his Starling Euro account in September 2021. He says 
he tried to transfer the money into a different Euro account, but Starling applied account 
restrictions. Mr C says he needed the money for medical treatment. He says he was then 
told his accounts would close and he would be sent a cheque in Sterling for the balance. Mr 
C says he didnt agree to that and would like the money sent to him in Euros. He also says 
he was charged account fees when his account was blocked.
Starling says it restricted Mr Cs account on 16 November 2021 and is entitled to do so in 
line with account terms and conditions. It says it asked Mr C for information about the money 
and transaction and made the decision in line with terms and conditions to close his 
accounts. Starling says its terms and conditions say it will pay any balances in these 
circumstances in Sterling which it did by sending Mr C a cheque for £99,009. It says it 
offered to pay Mr C the account fee of £25 while the account was blocked.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and 
provided him with an extract of the relevant account terms and conditions. The investigator 
in summary thought Starling was entitled to close an account immediately and didnt think it 
made a mistake by sending Mr C his money in Sterling. The investigator also thought the 
account fee was charged in line with terms and conditions, but Starling had offered to refund 
it in effect.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says the terms and conditions may be correct but 
questions why a customer would read them and says they are unfair as well as abusive. He 
says he wasnt given the exchange rate calculation and says our role is to oversee these 
types of unfair terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. There is 
no need for me to record the account terms and conditions in full in this decision as I can see 
the investigator has provided the relevant ones to Mr C.
Im satisfied that Mr C would have agreed to the account terms and conditions when he 
opened his Starling accounts. Those terms and conditions make clear that Starling is entitled 
to restrict account usage and is entitled to close an account immediately. I appreciate that Mr 
C seems to accept that Starling is entitled to do so and that his main part of the complaint is 
the currency issue. But I make clear that I find that Starling acted in line with agreed account 
terms and conditions by firstly restricting the account and by secondly deciding to close all of 
Mr Cs accounts. I dont think Starling made a mistake by doing so or acted unfairly.
The main part of this complaint is the currency payment issue when Starling closed the 
account. I have again looked closely at Starlings account terms and conditions which clearly 
say that when an account is closed in this type of circumstance, any payment will be made in 
Sterling. So, Im satisfied that Starling has acted in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions by sending Mr C a cheque for the full balance in Sterling. It follows that as I dont 
think Starling has made a mistake about this issue, then I cant fairly order it to pay Mr C the 
account balance in Euros. I also think that Mr C has effectively been given the exchange rate 
used by Starling as he has his account balance details in Euros and the amount sent to him 
in Sterling.
I appreciate Mr C says the account terms and conditions are abusive and unfair. I have 
made clear that Im satisfied that Mr C agreed to them and I would have expected him to 
have read them before agreeing to them. I make clear to Mr C that our role is not, as he 
suggests, to oversee account terms and conditions and that it would be for a court to decide 
if such terms and conditions are unfair.
I also appreciate Mr C says it is unfair that he was charged an account fee when his account 
was blocked. I can see Starling offered to pay Mr C £25 and he can contact it if he wishes to 
accept that offer. I think such a fee was correctly charged.
Overall, Im satisfied that Starling has acted correctly in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions and hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly. I also find this brings an end to what 
we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman