DRN-2164051
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aldermore Bank Plc changed the way he can access his savings 
without telling him. 
What happened
Mr W has held savings with Aldermore for several years. In April 2018 Aldermore says it 
sent all its customers a notice to explain it was moving a lot of the account services online. 
The changes took place on 1 October 2018. 
On 22 September 2019 Mr W called Aldermore to change the type of savings account his 
funds were in. Mr W was told the account changes needed to be completed online and 
offered to send out new credentials to log in. Aldermore also offered to close the account 
over the phone if Mr W didnt want to operate it online. 
Mr W complained and Aldermore responded on 25 September 2019. Aldermores response 
included a temporary password to access his account online. Aldermores final response 
confirmed Mr W could give an instruction to close the account over the phone or in writing 
with 30 days notice. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. She said 
Aldermore were able to change the way its accounts operated, moving towards an online 
basis. The investigator was satisfied Aldermore had sent Mr W details of the changes before 
they came into effect. But she thought Aldermore could have done more to tell Mr W about 
the changes to the way its accounts operated when he moved to a 30 day access account in 
September 2018 and asked it to pay him £100. Aldermore accepted but Mr W asked to 
appeal. As Mr W asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aldermore says it took the decision to change the way its accounts operate and gave its 
customers details about the new approach in its April 2018 annual statement. Aldermore 
also says it sent out a reminder to its customers in August 2018, in advance of the changes 
that took effect from 1 October 2018. 
I understand Mr W is unhappy at Aldermores move to online account operation. But 
businesses can choose to change the way they operate and how accounts are accessed. 
Aldermore can also make changes to the account terms and conditions by giving notice. 
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Aldermore could choose to change how 
accounts operate and that it did send Mr W details of the new provisions before they came 
into effect. I understand Mr W has told us he doesnt recall receiving the notices Aldermore 
sent, but Im satisfied it did write to him as it claims. 
Mr W has asked for compensation to cover the period after his funds were left in the 30 day 
access account. But on 22 September 2019 Aldermore explained that the way the account 
operated had changed. Ive listened to the call, and Aldermore said he could close the 
account over the phone. Aldermore responded to Mr Ws complaint on 25 September 2019 
and confirmed the move to online account access. The final response reiterated that Mr W 
could close the account over the phone or by letter. Im satisfied that once Mr W complained, 
the way his account operated was correctly explained. If Mr W remained unhappy with the 
account changes he had the option to move his funds away from Aldermore at that time, 
without using its online system. 
Our investigator thought Aldermore could have done more to highlight the account access 
changes when Mr W took out a new product in September 2018 and asked it to pay him 
£100. As Ive said above, Im satisfied Aldermore did communicate details of its upcoming 
changes before they came into effect. But I agree that the information Mr W was given in 
September 2018 could have specifically noted the new arrangements for accessing the 
account. Im satisfied the £100 Aldermore has agreed to pay fairly reflects the impact of this 
error. Im going to endorse the investigators award, uphold this complaint and tell Aldermore 
to pay Mr W £100. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Aldermore Bank Plc to pay Mr W £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman