DRN-3635791
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited handled her claim and the 
compensation its offered. 
What happened
Mrs M suffered with poor mental health in May 2020. She made a claim with her insurer, 
AXA, for support through a therapist. Mrs M said she needed this treatment and that AXA 
declined to cover the costs unfairly. She explained her mental health continued to spiral out 
of control and she was hospitalised in December that year. Mrs M said she provided AXA 
with the necessary medical evidence at the time and AXA ignored it which impacted her 
health, her family, her finances, her job and her overall recovery. Mrs M would like AXA to 
pay her more compensation that she feels fairly reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced. 
AXA said it correctly declined Mrs Ms claim initially because it looked as though she was 
suffering with a pre-existing medical condition. It noted Mrs M had been prescribed 
Citalopram previously to treat her recovery from post-natal depression in 2018. It said on 
that basis, Mrs Ms current condition appeared to be related to that which meant her claim 
didnt satisfy the policy terms. It said that because shed not been symptom-free for two 
years prior to taking the policy out. 
However, AXA said it received a letter from Mrs Ms GP in December 2020, which detailed a 
new mental health diagnosis of emotionally unstable personality disorder (EUPD) and that 
this changed its position as it was different to the previous medical condition. AXA said itd 
incorrectly archived that letter without taking action and that it wasnt until May 2021, when 
Mrs M contacted AXA, that it realised what had happened. It said this was a mistake and 
retrospectively accepted her claim. It covered the costs associated with the therapy 
treatment and offered £700 for the overall distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator agreed that AXA made a mistake by ignoring the letter Mrs M sent in 
December 2020. But she also said AXAs offer of £700 was fair because it adequately 
compensated Mrs M for the distress and inconvenience caused. She said AXA delayed Mrs 
Ms treatment by approximately six weeks  which was roughly the time between it receiving 
her letter and Mrs Ms therapy beginning in January 2021. Our investigator highlighted that 
when Mrs M chased AXA again in May 2021, it agreed to cover her therapy costs and paid 
her the compensation. She thought that was fair and so made no further recommendation.
Mrs M disagreed. She said AXAs offer wasnt enough because shed lost money by having 
to reduce her working hours because of her illness. She also described the impact AXAs 
actions had on her overall recovery and the stress she was under whilst receiving treatment. 
Mrs M said AXA should have done much more than it did to support her and perhaps guided 
her through her treatment by sign-posting her to relevant care givers. And so, its now for me 
to make a final decision about whether the compensation offered by AXA is fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I say that because Im satisfied AXAs offer is 
fair and therefore, I agree with our investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
AXA, like all insurers, must ensure that claims brought to it are validated. Thats to say that it 
will ask consumers to provide as much medical evidence so it can determine whether a 
claim should be met. Mrs M brought her claim to AXA in April 2020 and AXA, after assessing 
the medical information it had at that time, decided her claim shouldnt be met because it 
considered this was part of her previous medical condition. Ive carefully considered AXAs 
actions here and I agree it assessed her claim fairly based on the available medical 
evidence at the time. 
Mrs M was unable to successfully demonstrate she was suffering from a different mental 
health problem. I understand Mrs Ms argument that AXA should have provided additional 
support at this point to help pinpoint exactly what the problem was, but I disagree it was 
AXAs responsibility to do that. AXAs advisors arent medically trained and so I wouldnt 
expect it to offer that level of service. I should also say the responsibility falls to Mrs M to 
demonstrate she has a valid claim and not AXA. As Mrs M was unable to do that, I disagree 
that AXA made a mistake or treated her unfairly by declining the claim. 
It wasnt until June 2020 that Mrs M told AXA shed been diagnosed with EUPD and AXA 
responded correctly by asking for medical evidence to support this. Mrs M didnt get this 
information to AXA until December, some six months later, which I dont consider to be 
AXAs fault for the reasons Ive just explained. It was for Mrs M to gather that medical 
evidence so AXA could validate her claim. 
The issue arose when Mrs M shared her medical evidence with AXA and it did nothing with 
it. However, I note Mrs M didnt contact AXA again until May 2021, some five months after 
shed sent her medical evidence sharing her EUPD diagnosis. I thought this delay was 
excessive and I agree AXA made a mistake by taking no action with her letter, but I wont 
say the delay here was solely AXAs fault. Id have expected Mrs M to contact AXA much 
sooner than she did and Ive not seen any evidence that persuades me that Mrs M was 
incapacitated to such a degree that she was unable to do that sooner than she did. Its for 
these reasons I dont hold AXA responsible for the delays Mrs Ms complained about. 
Mrs M accessed treatment in January 2021 and when she finally contacted AXA five months 
later, it acknowledged the error it made and repaid her therapy costs  which I thought was 
fair. And so, Ive thought about what should have happened, had AXA acted upon the letter it 
received in December 2020. AXA would have accepted her claim and referred her for 
therapy, which most likely would have commenced towards the end of December, or 
January 2021. And as Mrs M had already made her own arrangements to access therapy 
that month, I dont consider AXAs actions to have had an impact significant enough for me 
to fairly say it should pay her anymore compensation. There were delays here and Im not 
minimalizing the overall distress and inconvenience Mrs M experienced, but I dont think that 
was AXAs fault for the reasons Ive explained.
I wanted to acknowledge the difficulties Mrs Ms experienced with her recovery and the 
impact this has had on her work. Mrs M had to reduce her working hours because of her 
illness and shes therefore been impacted financially. However, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont consider it AXAs responsibility to compensate her for that. Having 
carefully considered her arguments, Im not persuaded that AXAs actions would have had a material bearing here. Had AXA become involved in Mrs Ms treatment from December 
when it was informed about her EUPD, Im not persuaded Mrs Ms recovery would have 
been any different. I say that because Ive not seen any medical evidence to persuade me 
otherwise. And so, I dont make any further award here either. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint because I think the settlement offered by AXA is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman