DRN-1321117
 
The complaint
Mr S says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr S took out the PPI when he applied for a charge card in 1994 by filling out, and returning 
by post, a leaflet from an M&S store. M&S sold the PPI to Mr S. But Allianz Insurance Plc as 
the insurer has accepted responsibility for the sale, and this complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S says he had no idea PPI was added to his account. But on the application form there is 
a separate section for PPI and Mr S ticked the box in that section to request the policy. The 
sale happened a long time ago so I can understand that Mr S might not recall how he 
completed the form. But overall, I think Allianz made Mr S aware the PPI was optional and 
he agreed to take it out.
Mr S says he didnt need PPI. But Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt need 
to check it was right for him. It was up to him to decide given the other ways he had to make 
his card repayments if he wasnt working.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr S chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
Mr S has told us he had no savings and was only entitled to statutory sick pay - the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness and 
unemployment claim. So, based on what I know about Mr Ss circumstances and the terms 
of the PPI policy, I dont think Mr S wouldve made a different decision if better information 
had been provided. 
It follows, I dont think Mr S has lost out because of any problems with the sale. I know Mr S 
has pointed out that he had two other PPI complaints upheld, but I can only comment here 
on the individual merits of this case.My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman