DRN-3093870
The complaint
Ms P complains about the settlement Ageas Insurance Limited offered for the loss of her car 
after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms Ps car was damaged, and she made a claim on her policy. Ageas said the car was 
beyond economical repair and it offered Ms P £1,000 in settlement of her claim. Ms P 
complained about this and also said she wanted to retain the cars salvage. Ageas then 
increased its offer to £1,380 and deducted £345 for the cars salvage value. Ms P was 
unhappy with this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Ageas 
valuation of the car was fair and reasonable. And she thought it was entitled to make a 
deduction for the cars salvage value as Ms P wanted to retain it. 
Ms P replied that she needed the car to attend medical appointments and thought it was 
unfair for Ageas to make a deduction for salvage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas said Ms Ps car was a Category N total loss. This means that it had non-structural 
damage. But the repair costs were more than Ageas wished to pay, so it was deemed 
uneconomical to repair and so it was a total loss. 
I can see that Ageas established this from images taken of the car after the accident and its 
view of the likely repair costs. I think that was fair and reasonable given the age and 
condition of the car. I can also see that Ms Ps policy provides for the cars pre-accident 
market value in the case of its total loss. 
I can understand that Ms P wants a fair settlement for the loss of her car. Shes explained 
that she needs the car to attend medical appointments. But our approach in cases like this is 
to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and 
fairly and reasonably.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing secondhand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought that Ageas final offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how 
she came to this conclusion. I can see that she checked the motor trade guides for cars of 
the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Ms Ps car. She found that Ageas 
final offer was higher than the average of the valuations she found. 
So I think Ageas valuation was fair and reasonable as it was made in keeping with our 
approach and the policys terms and conditions. 
Ageas made a deduction for the cars salvage as Ms P wished to retain it. I think Ageas is 
entitled to do this as once it has paid Ms P the cars market value it becomes the cars 
owner. Ageas deducted 25% of the cars market value as the cost of its salvage. And I can 
see from the evidence that its provided that this is in keeping with its deductions for cars of 
the same value as Ms Ps and what it would obtain for the salvage. So I think this deduction 
was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman