DRN-4246271
Complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement 
were unaffordable. 
Mr B has been in separate discussions with Moneybarn regarding the quality of the vehicle 
he was sold. But this complaint that has been referred to us solely covers the affordability of 
the agreement.
Background
In October 2021, Moneybarn provided Mr B with finance for a used car. The purchase price 
of the vehicle was £10,990.00. Mr B didnt pay a deposit and took out a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn for the entire £10,990.00. The loan had interest charges of 
£5,540.03. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £10,971.68 was due to be repaid 
in 59 monthly instalments of £280.17.
Mr B complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Bs 
complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed with our adjudicator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr B before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Bs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr B provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr B which showed his existing 
borrowing levels were low and that he hadnt had obvious difficulties with credit such as 
defaults or county court judgments against him. And when the repayments to Mr Bs existing 
commitments plus a reasonable amount for Mr Bs living expenses were deducted from his 
monthly income the repayments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr B says he was already struggling with his existing commitments and 
had defaulted accounts, which meant that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable 
and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr B and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our adjudicator, I dont think that the checks 
Moneybarn carried out did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was 
reasonable to rely on an estimate of Mr Bs living costs given the amount being borrowed, 
the total amount Mr B had to repay and the amount of the monthly payment Mr B had to 
make. But I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Bs actual living costs would 
have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend. 
As Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Moneybarn is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from      
Mr B. What I need to think about here is what did Moneybarn need to do in order to answer 
the questions its initial checks left unanswered  in other words, what were Mr Bs actual 
regular living expenses (bearing in his credit commitments were already validated by the 
credit search)?  given this was a first agreement and Mr B was being provided with a car 
rather than cash.
The information Mr B has provided does appear to show that when his committed regular 
living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he 
did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this 
agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Bs actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information hes provided shows. For example, I know that Mr B says that he 
had previously defaulted on credit. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for 
me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
I dont think that Moneybarn could possibly be expected to have known that the payments to 
this agreement were unaffordable bearing in mind that the information provided now doesnt 
clearly show that this is the case. Furthermore, Mr B still hasnt provided anything to support 
what hes said about having defaults at the time of this application despite having been given 
the opportunity to do so. 
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr B did go far enough, Im 
satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have stopped 
Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. So Im 
satisfied that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly towards Mr B when it agreed to provide the funds.As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr B. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding 
balance on Mr Bs account and it be the case that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman