DRN-3799444
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) hasnt helped him with a fraud 
claim.
What happened
Mr M says he made a number of payments to a gambling company based abroad. He says 
he believed he had won over £80,000 and so spent his money believing he would receive 
his winnings. Mr M says he didnt receive the winnings and asked RBS to provide his 
account statements so he could make a fraud or chargeback claim. He says RBS contacted 
him about the payments and so must have known he was the victim of fraud. Mr M would 
like his money back and says the company he made the payments to didnt have a required 
licence. He says RBS should have stopped the payments and says he now has all his 
account statements.
RBS says it told Mr M that it couldnt raise a chargeback as he authorised the payments to 
the company. It says it told him he wouldnt need his account statements as they couldnt 
assist him. RBS says it isnt responsible for the company in question not having a licence. It 
says Mr M did have access to online banking and his statements but says it has now closed 
his accounts. RBS says it no longer has records of blocking payments or the telephone calls 
as Mr M confirmed the payments were genuine.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didnt think Mr M had any chargeback rights and had authorised the payments. 
The investigator thought RBS had questioned and blocked some payments, but Mr M told it 
he had authorised them. The investigator didnt think Mr Ms account statements would have 
helped him.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says RBS knew he was the victim of fraud 
and questions why there are no calls available from its fraud team. He questions if those 
calls have been deleted on purpose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
The chargeback rules are set by the card providers and not as in this case by RBS. A 
chargeback is not a legal right but a voluntary scheme that has no guarantee of success 
when a chargeback is made. And I make clear to Mr M that RBS has to follow the 
chargeback rules and is entitled to decide if one ought to be made.
Im satisfied that Mr M made the payments to the company in question and that the 
payments were made for gambling purposes. I appreciate Mr M says the company in 
question didnt have a required licence but that is not something I can fairly hold RBS 
responsible for. In those circumstances Im satisfied that RBS was reasonably entitled to 
conclude that Mr M didnt have any chargeback rights and that there was no reasonable 
prospect of a successful outcome if one was raised. I can see that RBS fairly explained its 
position to Mr M.
I appreciate Mr M wanted copies of his account statements. I think it would have been easier 
for RBS to have simply sent him copies of the last years statements as it ought to have been 
clear to it that Mr M wanted details of payments to the gambling company. But I can see that 
Mr M now has the statements and I dont think they can help with any chargeback for the 
reasons I have explained. I appreciate this is not the main part of the complaint.
I also appreciate Mr M would have liked copies of the telephone calls between him and RBS 
about the payments. I dont think there is any evidence that RBS has deliberately deleted the 
calls and think it more likely that there was no reason to keep them when Mr M confirmed 
the payments as genuine and made by him. I dont think in any event those calls would have 
helped here as I think on balance RBS blocked payments in line with its fraud and security 
policy which Mr M later confirmed as genuine and made by him. This was of course Mr Ms 
money and he was free to spend it as he saw fit. I cant fairly hold RBS responsible for the 
actions of the gambling business.
Overall, I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied RBS hasnt 
made a mistake or acted unfairly. This now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this 
dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman