DRN-2481499
The complaint
Mr T complains that an educational programme financed by a loan with 3J Finance Limited 
is of a poor quality.
What happened
Mr T signed up to an online English and Maths programme for his four-year-old daughter in 
January 2017 with a company I will call X, having found a leaflet advertising the company 
in his daughters schoolbag. The programme cost £4,575 and was paid for with a deposit of 
£100 and a point of sale loan with 3J Finance of £4,475 under which Mr T was expected to 
pay 48 monthly payments of about £93. In return, Mr Ts daughter would have access to a 
lifetime licence to the programme, which was made up of modules which it appears would 
have taken her from Key Stage 1 (ages 5-7) to Key Stage 3 (ages 11-14), along with some 
early reading modules. The agreement with X was not cancellable after the first 14 days.
Over time, Mr T became increasingly dissatisfied with the programme and the way it was 
teaching his daughter. He found it outdated, poorly-presented, dull and was concerned by 
the fact it was localised for the southern hemisphere and not suited for the UK curriculum. 
For example, to answer a question correctly about which months corresponded with winter, 
his daughter had to select months which would be associated with summer in the UK. Mr T 
was worried this was confusing his daughter, not helping her, and he was finding himself 
having to help her with the programme most of the time.
Mr T raised his concerns with X on a few occasions. He says he was assured improvements 
would be made, but in November 2019 he asked to cancel and not have to pay any of the 
future payments. He was told by X that this was not possible. Its not clear on the evidence 
before me if Mr T then complained to X or what its response was, but a complaint was later 
made to 3J Finance, which it responded to. It denied any wrongdoing. 
Subsequently, Mr T brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into the matter. She thought Mr T needed to provide some more evidence of the problems 
with the programme, for example the opinion of an educational professional. She suggested 
to Mr T that he contact his daughters school to see if they were able to comment. Mr T did 
so, and informed our investigator that the school had declined to comment. It appears 
however that the school contacted X or 3J Finance about Mr Ts concerns, and not long after 
this 3J Finance contacted Mr T directly and made a series of offers to settle the matter. It 
doesnt appear any of these offers were made in writing, but internal notes from 3J Finances 
systems suggest the last of these offers was to end the credit agreement, backdated to 
when Mr T asked to cancel in November 2019, refunding any payments he had made since 
then, and allowing him to keep a laptop or tablet hed received as a free gift. In return Mr T 
was asked to promise to keep everything confidential and agree not to pursue 3J Finance 
any further.
Mr T didnt accept the offer. Our investigator proceeded to issue her findings. She concluded 
Mr T hadnt provided enough evidence that Xs programme was not as described or not fit 
for purpose, so the offer 3J Finance had made was a fair one. Mr T didnt agree with this. He 
pointed out poor reviews that X had received online, and speculated that Xs good reviews 
were not genuine. Our investigator said she couldnt place a lot of weight on other peoples 
reviews and needed to consider the evidence which was specific to his case. Mr T then 
supplied a commentary from one of his daughters former teachers about the programme. 
The teacher did not want to reveal their identity however, and our investigator felt she 
wouldnt be able to rely on this evidence in the circumstances. In the end, no agreement 
could be reached and the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has requested that a specific named ombudsman decides his case. Im sorry to say 
that this isnt something which is possible, but I want to reassure Mr T that like all my fellow 
ombudsmen I will decide the case fairly on the evidence and arguments before me. 
The nature of Ts complaint is that he (and his daughter) received a sub-standard product 
from X that wasnt fit for purpose.
I will first of all set out how 3J Finance, which funded Mr Ts purchase, can be found 
responsible for problems with the programme. After all, it was not 3J Finance that sold or 
supplied the programme to Mr T. But certain provisions within the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA), which the loan is regulated by, cause some liability to fall on 3J Finance in certain 
circumstances. These provisions are set out in sections 56 and 75 of the CCA.
I will not set out in detail how these sections of the CCA operate, but in brief section 56 
causes X to be treated as the agent of 3J Finance for the purpose of any negotiations 
leading up to Mr T signing the loan agreement. This means 3J Finance can be held 
responsible for the things X said or did during the sales process. 
Section 75 allows Mr T to hold 3J Finance liable for breaches of contract by X, or 
misrepresentations by X in relation to the purchase of the programme. Mr T hasnt alleged 
that the programme was misrepresented  rather he says it is of poor quality  so I have 
focused on the question of whether or not there has been a breach of contract in my 
decision.
The quality of the programme
The programme Mr T bought from X would be defined as digital content under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA is an important piece of legislation which 
causes terms to be treated as included in contracts for digital content. These terms include 
that the content will be fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality means 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account the 
price, description and other relevant circumstances. If the digital content fails to meet these 
standards then this would be a breach of contract  something for which 3J Finance would 
be liable to Mr T.
Mr T has provided the following evidence to support his complaint about the programme:
Screenshots of some of the issues his daughter experienced.
His recollections of some of the problems.
Examples of poor reviews of the programme from other customers.
An anonymous commentary from a teacher at his daughters old school.Based on the screenshots Mr T has provided, I agree that some of the questions asked 
involving the months of the year, days of the week and seasons are not well-suited to a child 
learning these topics in the UK. The lessons appear to assume the student is based in the 
southern hemisphere. I can see how a child would find these lessons confusing.
Other screenshots show lines of pencils and candles which are meant to be counted. Mr T 
says the visual appearance is confusing  but I think thats a matter of opinion. I take the 
same view of Mr Ts comments that the programme is dated and dull.  
I have seen the examples of poor reviews from other parents, some of whom make similar 
criticisms of the programme as Mr T. I have no doubt that X has other customers who are 
unhappy, but Im not able to attach as much weight to this evidence as I would to evidence 
relating to the specific package of modules that made up the programme Mr T purchased. 
The conclusion I am invited to reach by Mr T  that the programme was of unsatisfactory 
quality or not fit for purpose  is one which in my view requires a significant weight of 
evidence to support. Reviews from anonymous customers of X would not be enough.
Our investigator explored the possibility of Mr T obtaining more specific evidence to support 
his case. This resulted in Mr T contacting his daughters school and one of her former 
teachers. The school didnt comment, and the teacher did provide a commentary (in the form 
of notes written on print-outs of the lessons) but did not want to be named. I dont know their 
identity and we cant ask them about their evidence. Unfortunately, its difficult for me to 
attach much weight to this evidence because it has been given anonymously, and in any 
event it only comments on a small number of the lessons. 
Mr T has said the anonymous teacher suggested this service appoints a neutral teacher to 
review Xs programme. I agree that expert evidence is often very helpful in cases like Mr Ts 
where the underlying issue relates to a specialist subject about which this service does not 
have detailed knowledge. While we will carry out reasonable investigations it is ultimately up 
to both sides to provide evidence to support their case, such as sourcing the kind of neutral 
expert Mr T has referred to.
Overall, I think Mr T has provided some evidence that certain lessons on Xs programme 
were unsuitable for a child learning in the UK. However, this a small sample of the course 
material and I dont think I could extrapolate from this that the whole programme was of 
unsatisfactory quality or not fit for purpose.  
I have to bear in mind here that the programme Mr T purchased was not a short-term 
course, it was designed to cover many years of his daughters schooling and was made up 
of a large number of individual lessons split over 16 modules. And I note Mr T appears to 
have been satisfied with the early reading parts of the programme  his dissatisfaction 
began as his daughter started moving on to different modules. He has only been able to 
show, in my view, that a small number of the lessons were problematic. And I dont think this 
is enough for me to be able to say X breached its contract with Mr T (and that therefore 
3J Finance should have done something to put things right due to its liability under 
section 75 of the CCA).  
3J Finance has previously offered to arrange the cancellation of the programme and the 
associated loan, backdated to when Mr T asked to cancel in November 2019. Its unclear to 
me if that offer is still available as it seems to have been time-limited. Mr T may wish to 
contact the company to find out if the offer stands, but as I dont think 3J Finance needs to 
do anything to resolve the complaint, I cant compel it to honour the offer.Mr T understandably feels strongly about what has happened. He doesnt have to accept my 
decision. If he doesnt then he remains free to pursue the matter elsewhere, for example 
through the courts, which I understand he may already be considering.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman