DRN-3354821
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car supplied under an agreement with Motability Operations Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr W was supplied with a car and entered into a 3 year contract hire 
agreement with Motability.
In October 2021 the car broke down. Mr W carried out diagnostic testing using his own 
equipment which indicated that there was a misfire on cylinder one.
The car was returned to the dealer (BDL) for repairs. Soon after Mr W collected the car it 
broke down again. Mr W diagnosed the same fault for a misfire on cylinder one. The car was 
returned to the dealer.
The dealer referred the car to an engine specialist (DE). DE said the fuel had been 
contaminated and that a new engine and fuel system was required. The dealer advised Mr 
W to file a claim with his insurer. The insurer subsequently took over the claim.
Mr W complained to Motability. He was unhappy that the dealer hadnt repaired the car and 
said he hadnt been told what was happening by his insurer. Mr W said that Motability should 
be chasing progress of the repairs because his agreement was with them.
Motability spoke to the dealer, who said it had correctly diagnosed the fault. Motability 
advised Mr W that his complaint about the insurer would need to be made to the insurer 
directly as it related to their handling of the claim.
Mr W was unhappy with Motabilitys response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the fault with the car was attributable 
to fuel contamination whilst it was in Mr Ws possession, and that there wasnt any evidence 
to suggest that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed had three courtesy cars since his car broke down and he 
hadnt heard from the insurer as to when he would get his car back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition and other things like fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Id expect a brand new car to be of a high quality and free from defects for a reasonable 
period of time. Ive looked at the evidence to determine whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Under the relevant legislation, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months which makes a car 
of unsatisfactory quality, its presumed that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Based on what Ive seen, I think there was a fault with the car. This is because the car broke 
down in October 2021 and a cylinder misfire was diagnosed.
The fault occurred around 18 months into the agreement. So, its up to Mr W to show that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The fact that a fault occurred 
doesnt automatically mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Ive looked at the available information. This shows that the engine has a misfire. Both BDL 
and DE diagnosed this. DE is of the opinion that the misfire was caused by previous fuel 
contamination. It said that although the fuel had been drained, the damage had already 
occurred. 
Mr W hasnt provided any evidence to challenge the diagnosis made by BDL and DE. Based 
on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that the fault with the car was due to fuel contamination. 
Because the fault occurred 18 months into the agreement, I dont think its likely that the fault 
was present at the point of supply. Its more likely that the fuel contamination occurred after 
the point of supply, when the car was in Mr Ws possession. Theres no evidence to suggest 
that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive taken into account Mr Ws concerns that he hasnt been kept advised by his insurance 
company. Hes said that Motability should be chasing things up for him.
I understand that Mr W is frustrated by the lack of communication from his insurer. But this 
isnt something I can hold Motability responsible for. From what Ive seen, Motability has 
made reasonable efforts to communicate with the insurer but ultimately, if Mr W wishes to 
complain about how his claim has been handled, he should make his complaint directly to 
the insurer. 
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Motability has done anything wrong or 
acted unfairly. I wont be asking it to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman