DRN-3426065
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Everyday Lending trading as Everyday Loans was irresponsible 
in lending to her.
What happened
In July 2018 Miss B took out a loan with Everyday Loans for £1,500. She said the purpose 
of the loan was to buy a car. The loan was taken out over 18 months with an APR of 
149.3% and her monthly repayments were £162.71 making the total repayable at the end of 
the term £2,928.78. The loan was repaid in May 2019 out of the proceeds of a second loan 
from Everyday Loans.
The second loan of £1,923.31 was taken out in May 2019. The loan was to be repaid over a 
period of 24 months with an APR of 144.7%. The monthly payments were £179 making the 
total repayable at the end of the term £4,296.
Miss B ran into difficulties repaying the second loan. She complained that Everyday Loans 
hadnt properly checked she could afford the loans.
Everyday Loans looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loans were sustainable. Miss B referred her complaint 
to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part.
An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Bs complaint. These 
two questions are:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss B would be able to repay loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B wouldve been able to do so?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Loans to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Loans had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business 
had to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss B undue 
difficulty or significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to 
meet repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss 
B. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
With regard to the first question Everyday Loans gathered some information about 
income and expenditure from Miss B before it made the first loan. It received a copy of 
her payslip and two months bank statements. It also carried out a credit check and a 
job check. Miss B told it she had two children. I think these checks were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Everyday Loans said it confirmed that Miss Bs income was £2,015.96 a month. This was 
made up of a salary from her job, child benefit, working tax credit and disability living 
allowance. The disability living allowance was intended to cover the extra costs involved in 
looking after a child with a disability. So I dont think Everyday Loans should have taken 
that part of her income into account which amounted to about £319 a month.
Everyday Loans used statistical data and figures to calculate the living expense element of 
affordability. This calculation takes into consideration the customers income, region, 
household composition and residential status. It also said it applied a buffer to the living 
expenses amount to accommodate any unexpected minor changes in the customers 
circumstances or one-off additional expenses. It said its affordability calculation showed 
that Miss B would have a monthly disposable income of £805.12 after taking into account 
her estimated expenditure of £1,048.13 and her new Everyday Loan monthly repayment of 
£162.71. Even adjusting the figures to exclude the disability allowance, Miss B would still 
have been left with a reasonable amount of disposable income.Ive reviewed Miss Bs bank statements and credit search. Overall they dont suggest that 
Miss B was having trouble managing her finances. In particular I note she had no recent 
or short term loans. There was also no evidence of gambling or returned payments. The 
bank account appears to have been managed with transfers from a savings account when 
necessary. On current evidence I can understand why Everyday Loans came to the 
conclusion that the first loan would be sustainable over the term for Miss B.
By November 2018 Miss B was having difficulty repaying the first loan due to a change in 
her circumstances. Shed started making weekly repayments. By the time of the second 
loan Miss B was on maternity leave. Her monthly income had gone down to £1,627.94 
and shed another child. Everyday Loans carried out similar checks as for the first loan. It 
calculated that her general living expenses were £711 and thought Miss B would have a 
monthly disposable income of £121.53 after making the new loan repayment of £179 and 
paying other creditors.
However the credit check Everyday Loans made for the second loan showed that Miss B 
was in an arrangement to pay two utility accounts. She was paying about £324 a month to 
other lenders. I think it should have been clear to Everyday Loans that if Miss B was 
already struggling to repay the first loan, she would find it even harder to make the slightly 
higher repayments for the second loan.
Overall, I dont think Everyday Loans properly scrutinised the information available to it to 
ensure that Miss B would have enough funds to be able to make the repayments for the 
second loan over 18 months. I dont think Everyday Loans focussed on Miss B as a 
borrower and her specific circumstances. In my opinion it ought reasonably to have been 
aware that Miss B would be unlikely to be able to repay the second loan sustainably over 
the loan term. That means it should reasonably have concluded that it wasnt appropriate to 
lend to Miss B.
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Both parties agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it and my 
provisional findings now form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Everyday Loans should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the second loan,
treat any payments made by Miss B as payments towards the capital amount of 
the second loan,
if Miss B has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be 
refunded to her with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement,
but if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Loans should come to 
a reasonable repayment plan with Miss B; and
remove any adverse information about the second loan from Miss Bs credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Bs complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday 
Loans to put things right for Miss B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman