DRN-3482310
Complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) registered a fraud prevention 
marker against her.
Background
In April 2016, Miss S account received a payment of £260 into it. £240 of the funds were 
immediately withdrawn at a cash machine. 
Barclays subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank, responsible for 
sending the payment to Miss S account, stating that the payee of the funds had reported 
being a victim of fraud. As a result of this notification, Barclays reviewed Miss S account and 
its investigation led it to decide to close the account and record a fraud prevention marker.
A number of years later Miss S complained. Barclays looked at Miss S complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Miss S remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss S concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss S is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss S was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss S allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss S complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss S account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss S 
account in April 2016, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss S was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss S has said she knew nothing about the funds which entered and then immediately 
exited her account. She told our adjudicator that the activity in question took place while she 
was at university and living in rented accommodation with four other girls. She said her card 
may have been taken because it was left together with her personal identification number 
(PIN) in her bedroom, which was unlocked and every weekend she travelled back to 
London. She never realised that her card was lost until she logged in to her online banking 
one day and it referred her to branch where she then found out her account had been 
closed. Miss S hasnt been able to provide anything to support what shes said.
Ive thought about what Miss S has said. But Im afraid that the available evidence doesnt 
support her version of events. I say this because this was an account that was used 
relatively regularly in the period leading up to the fraudulent activity. I think this is important 
because the funds entered into Miss S account and were immediately withdrawn in the 
middle of the week. And given this was an account Miss S was using relatively regularly, I 
would have expected her to have noticed that her card was missing, if it had, as shes 
suggesting, been taken while she was away the previous weekend.
Secondly, Miss S card was then used to make a series of transactions over the following 
week after the fraud took place. I know Miss S says these transactions werent made by her. 
And shes referred to one of these transactions being for petrol when she didnt drive as 
evidence of this. But I dont think that it necessarily follows Miss S couldnt have made a 
debit card transaction at a petrol station, or didnt make this particular one, just because she 
may not have been driving at that point. 
Equally, given the total amount of the transactions which took place and the fact that they 
took her overdrawn, I would have expected Miss S to have disputed them if they werent 
made by her and her card had been lost. Instead, it appears as though Miss S arranged for 
funds to be credited to her account, including funds from what appears to be a family 
member, to clear the overdrawn balance. 
Furthermore, Miss S has said that she returned to London, from university, every weekend. I 
dont know where Miss S attended university. But there were a number of debit card 
payments after the fraud took place which were to pay for transport in London. This suggests 
that the card was used further afield from where it was taken, without being noticed, and in 
particular was used in the general vicinity of where Miss S says she travelled to. And bearing 
in mind everything, it does appear to be more likely than not that Miss S was in possession 
of her card. At the very least it does refute the notion that the card was removed 
surreptitiously without Miss S knowledge.   Im afraid the available evidence failing to support Miss S version of events coupled with her 
being unable to provide anything to corroborate what shes said mean that I cant reasonably 
conclude Miss S was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not 
she was complicit in her account receiving fraudulent funds.  
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss S account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss S was complicit in this. As this 
is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did.  And Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss S. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman