DRN-3839316
The complaint
Mrs H complains about delay in AWP P&C SAs handling of her claim against her travel 
insurance policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs H has travel insurance underwritten by AWP as a benefit of 
a bank account. 
Mrs H planned a trip to visit her daughter. Her original departure and return dates were 
12 May 2022 and 23 May 2022 respectively. On 15 May 2022, whilst on her trip, Mrs H 
had a heart attack. She was taken by ambulance to the local hospital, but it didnt have a 
cardiology unit so was taken by air ambulance to a hospital in a nearby city for 
treatment. Her daughter travelled to the treating hospital to support Mrs H. 
On 16 May 2022, Mrs H first contacted AWP about her claim. On the same day, she had 
a medical procedure and on 17 May 2022, she was discharged by the hospital. Mrs H 
stayed in accommodation with her daughter near the hospital until she was declared fit 
to fly.
Mrs H changed her return flights and returned home on 26 May 2022. She pursued her 
claim with AWP. 
The treating hospital sent Mrs H invoices for payment and a final warning about overdue 
invoices. AWP didnt respond to Mrs Hs requests for information, so she pursued her 
complaint. 
In response to Mrs Hs complaint, in August 2022, AWP told Mrs H that its medical team 
was handling her claim and she should pass on letters from the treating hospital or 
dispose of repeat letters. AWP subsequently made a payment into Mrs Hs bank account 
but didnt explain which elements of her claim it had settled
Mrs H says that AWP didnt keep her informed about her claim or appear to progress it. 
She says that she made lots of phone calls to AWP and it didnt return her calls, as 
promised. Mrs H continued to received bills from the treating hospital, which was 
worrying. She wants AWP to deal with her claim, an apology, and an explanation.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He asked AWP for certain 
information, but AWP didnt respond. So, the investigator proceeded on the basis of the 
information Mrs H provided. 
The investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that based on the 
information he had, there appeared to be a valid claim against the policy. The 
investigator said that AWP should settle Mrs Hs claim with interest and pay 
compensation of £200 in relation to her distress and inconvenience caused by its delay 
in settling her claim.  
Mrs H agreed with the investigator. AWP didnt provide this service with a response. As 
there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In November 2022, after the investigator has sent his investigation outcome to the 
parties, AWP belatedly sent Mrs H its final response to her complaint. It apologised and 
said that thered been an excessive delay in the settlement of Mrs Hs claim, which had 
now been escalated for approval. It said that it would send Mrs H a decision letter about 
her claim as soon as possible and arrange a settlement. AWP offered Mrs H 
compensation of £40 as a gesture of goodwill. 
In December 2022, Mrs H learned that AWP had paid $92,323.47 to the treating 
hospital, leaving a balance of $1,113.30 due. Mrs H hasnt received an explanation from 
AWP in relation to the part payment of the treating hospitals invoices or of its payment to 
her. 
This decision deals with Mrs Hs complaint about AWPs delays in dealing with her claim. 
It doesnt deal with the amounts AWP has paid, as that wasnt part of Mrs Hs original 
complaint  quite understandably - as AWP hadnt made any payments when Mrs H first 
complained.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint because I dont think that AWP treated 
her fairly or reasonably. I say that because:   
The policy provides cover for emergency medical and certain associated expenses, 
subject to the policy terms. Its common ground that Mrs H didnt receive the 
service she could reasonably expect from AWP at an already worrying time. AWP 
has referred to excessive delay in dealing with Mrs Hs claim. That caused Mrs H 
distress and inconvenience. 
The remaining matter for me to decide is what AWP should do to put matters right. 
It has now settled most of the treating hospitals outstanding invoices, which leaves 
a balance outstanding of $1,113.30. Its not clear to me or Mrs H the basis on 
which AWP paid what it did to the treating hospital. And Mrs H says AWP has paid 
her £4,846.75 but she doesnt know which elements of her claim that relates to.
In order to put matters right, AWP should provide Mrs H with an itemised account 
of what it has paid to date to both the treating hospital and directly to Mrs H, its 
reasons for declining any part of Mrs Hs claim and copies of any relevant 
exchanges with the treating hospital about the outstanding balance of $1,113.30. 
If Mrs H is unhappy about AWPs decisions about elements of her claim, she 
should complain to AWP about that in the first instance. If she remains dissatisfied 
about that, she may make a new complaint to this service. 
As theres been undue delay in dealing with Mrs Hs claim, AWP should also pay 
interest on the settlement paid to Mrs H, from the date of her claim to the date of 
payment. I think that the compensation of £200 in relation to Mrs Hs distress and 
inconvenience caused by AWPs delays is fair and reasonable. 
In its final response letter of 28 November 2022, AWP apologised to Mrs H and 
explained the reason for the delay. I dont direct AWP to do any more in relation to 
an apology and explanation. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AWP should:   
provide Mrs H with an itemised account of what it has paid to date to her and the 
treating hospital, its reasons for declining any part of her claim and copies of any 
relevant exchanges with the treating hospital about the outstanding balance of 
$1,113.30; 
pay interest on the amounts it has paid directly to Mrs H, at the simple rate of 8% per 
year, from the date of the claim to the date of payment and
pay compensation of £200 in relation to Mrs Hs distress and inconvenience arising 
out of its delay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  AWP P&C SA should now take the 
steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman