DRN-1535292
The complaint
Mr S has complained about London General Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy 
that it wouldnt deal with a claim under his motor warranty policy. 
All references to London General include its agents.
 
What happened
Mr S took out a motor warranty for his car and looked to make a claim under his policy to 
cover the cost of replacing the exhaust gas recirculation valve (EGR valve). But when he 
claimed London General said the EGR valve wasnt covered under the policy.
Mr S complained to London General. It maintained that the claim wasnt covered as the 
policy lists the parts that are covered and the EGR valve isnt included. So Mr S complained 
to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He was of the view that 
the list of covered parts includes inlet and exhaust valves and as the part was an exhaust 
gas recirculation valve he thought it was understandable that Mr S thought it would be 
covered. And as it wasnt clear that the EGR valve wasnt covered he thought that London 
General should pay the claim (£238) and pay Mr S £50 in compensation.
As London General didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to go over all the details about this complaint as they are well known to both 
sides. Instead Ill focus on the key issue which is whether London General should pay Mr S 
claim as it wasnt clear that the EGR valve wasnt meant to be covered by the policy.
Mr S made a claim under his motor warranty for the cost of replacing the EGR valve on his 
car but London General said the part wasnt covered. This was because the part wasnt 
included in a list of covered parts. London General feel that the policy makes it clear that 
only the parts that are listed are covered and that Mr S should have read the policy which 
wouldve shown that. And that anything not listed wasnt covered.
London General also explained that the function of the EGR valve is to recirculate a portion 
of an engines exhaust back to the engine cylinders. And that the inlet and exhaust valves 
referred to on its list of parts that are covered are different parts and are specified within the 
policy.
While I accept London Generals point I must consider Mr S interpretation of the policy and 
whether a lay person would clearly understand that the EGR valve wasnt covered. And 
ultimately I dont think the policy is clear enough. I can understand why Mr S thought the part 
was covered given his understanding as a lay person. I dont think the way the parts are 
listed in the policy would make it clear to a lay person that this particular valve wasnt 
covered. And as there is ambiguity here I think that London General should cover the claim. I 
say this as this service traditionally interprets ambiguity in the favour of a consumer.
So, although I can understand that it was London Generals intention not to cover the EGR 
valve I can see why Mr S thought it would be covered. He thought that the exhaust gas 
recirculation valve was covered as the policy covered inlet and exhaust valves and I can 
understand this. Ultimately, while I can understand that this wasnt London Generals 
intention I dont think this is clear enough to a lay person. So I think the fair and reasonable 
thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for London General to pay the 
claim (£238) and to pay Mr S £50 compensation for his inconvenience. 
 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require London 
General Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr S £238 and £50 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman