DRN-2652549
The complaint
Mr T complains that replacement windows that he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance, were mis-sold to him. Hes 
being helped with his complaint by a representative.
What happened
Mr T used a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi Personal Finance, that he electronically 
signed in August 2018, to pay for some replacement windows and a door to reduce road 
noise in his home. The loan was for £1,680 and was repayable by 120 monthly loan 
repayments of £36.12 commencing twelve months after the date of supply. The windows 
and door were supplied and fitted in September 2018 but Mr T didnt achieve the noise 
reduction that hed expected. He complained to the supplier later that month and then to 
Hitachi Personal Finance in November 2018.
His complaints werent upheld so he paid a third party to remove the windows and replace 
them with windows with acoustic glass  he returned the removed windows to the supplier. 
He complained to this service that the windows had been mis-sold to him. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He felt that it was more likely than not 
there was a misrepresentation that induced Mr T into entering into the loan agreement and 
that he wouldnt have done so if the misrepresentation hadnt occurred. He recommended 
that Mr T should pay £552.03 to Hitachi Personal Finance for the supply of the door which 
didnt form part of his complaint and that the agreement should then be recorded as settled 
by Hitachi Personal Finance with it removing any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file 
regarding the agreement.
Hitachi Personal Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
It has provided a response to our investigators recommendations from the supplier and says 
that:
Mr T has complained about the supplier to a trade body and trading standards but 
those complaints werent upheld;
the supplier was approached for the supply and fit of triple glazed glass units, an 
order which was correctly fulfilled;
if Mr T had raised concerns about wanting to purchase windows to reduce noise then 
the supplier wouldve had the opportunity to explain noise pollution from around 
frames and cavities as the type of glass used is not the only factor with noise issues; 
and
Mr T requested triple glazed glass units and that is what was supplied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T used credit, in the form of a loan agreement, from Hitachi Personal Finance to 
pay for the windows;
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ts complaint about Hitachi Personal Finance, I must be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
and that Hitachi Personal Finances response to his claim under section 75 wasnt 
fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ts claim under 
section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;
Mr T contacted the supplier for it to supply and fit replacement windows and doors to 
reduce noise in his home from a nearby road and he says that he discussed his 
requirements, including noise reduction, with the supplier;
the supplier says that it supplied and fitted triple glazed windows as requested by 
Mr T and that it supplied a door which was fitted by a third party but that Mr T didnt 
tell it that he was trying to achieve a noise reduction;
Mr T says that he didnt notice a noise reduction after the windows and door had 
been fitted in September 2018 so he contacted the supplier later that month and he 
complained to Hitachi Personal Finance in November 2018;
he then paid a third party to remove the windows and replace them with windows 
with acoustic glass and he returned the removed windows to the supplier, which he 
says was at the suggestion of trading standards;
the loan repayments were due to start in September 2019 but Hitachi Personal 
Finance agreed to put them on hold and Mr T hasnt made any payments to it under 
the loan agreement;
this is a finely balanced complaint as the supplier says that it didnt discuss noise 
reduction with Mr T and theres no written evidence to show that noise reduction was 
discussed - but Mr T says that noise reduction was the main reason for replacing the 
windows and it was discussed with the supplier;
in complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;
the suppliers website says that triple glazing is: An unrivalled window solution in 
terms of home comfort, there is no match for the thermal insulation and noise 
reduction that triple glazing provides;
the supplier visited Mr Ts home, which is adjacent to a main road, and I consider it to 
be more likely than not that noise reduction would have been discussed  and I 
consider that, if the triple glazing wasnt going to achieve the required noise 
reduction, it would be reasonable to expect the supplier to have explained that to him and to have provided him with more information about the alternatives, such as 
acoustic glazing;
it didnt do that I consider it to be more likely than not that the supplier 
misrepresented the windows to Mr T in these circumstances and that its 
misrepresentation induced him into entering into the agreement for the supply of the 
windows; and
I dont consider that Hitachi Personal Finance has responded to Mr Ts complaint 
fairly and reasonably and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to take the 
actions set out below.
Putting things right
Mr T has removed the windows and returned them to the supplier. The fixed sum loan 
agreement was for the windows and also for a door that was supplied to Mr T (and fitted by a 
third party). Hitachi Personal Finance says that the cost of that door was £552.03 and it 
doesnt form part of Mr Ts complaint. Our investigator recommended that Mr T should pay 
£552.03 to Hitachi Personal Finance for the door  and he has agreed to do so. I consider 
that to be fair and reasonable.
I find that Hitachi Personal Finance should then waive the loan repayments that are due from 
Mr T and end the fixed sum loan agreement at no further cost to him. I also find that it should 
record that agreement as settled on Mr Ts credit file and ensure that no adverse information 
about the agreement is recorded on his credit file. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and I order Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, trading as 
Hitachi Personal Finance, to:
1. Waive the loan repayments that are due from Mr T and end the fixed sum loan 
agreement at no cost to him  provided that he pays to it the £552.03 for the 
door.
2. Ensure that the fixed sum loan agreement is recorded as settled on Mr Ts credit 
file and that no adverse information about the agreement is recorded on his credit 
file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman