DRN-2913095
The complaint and background
A business, that Ill refer to as L, complain that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited declined 
their claim for business interruption. Mr S, Ls director, brings the complaint on Ls behalf, 
and has been represented throughout by Miss B. 
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on Ls business. Whilst they werent required to 
close, they had to reduce the number of people who could work at their premises to comply 
with social distancing rules, which resulted in losses. 
L say that Hiscox originally told them by phone that their business insurance policy, which 
included cover for business interruption in certain scenarios, would respond to their claim. 
And L feel this should be treated as legally binding. Nevertheless, L later sought a written 
assurance of this, which Hiscox wasnt willing to provide. Conversely, Hiscox wrote to L in 
summer 2020 setting out why it didnt think the policy would respond to their claim. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) pursued a business interruption insurance test 
case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings, including different 
types of Hiscox policies, and how they should respond to the pandemic. The Supreme Court 
handed down its judgment in January 2021. Hiscox subsequently reviewed Ls claim in light 
of the judgment, but maintained that cover didnt apply in Ls circumstances.  
Whilst L faced some issues in their correspondence with Hiscox both before and after the 
judgment was handed down, theyve been clear that theyve brought this complaint to 
establish whether or not their claim should be covered. 
L feel the judgment established that they should be covered for any interruption which flowed 
from their inability to use their whole premises due to restrictions imposed upon them by a 
public authority. But Hiscox disagrees. It says that an inability of use must be established, 
not just a hindrance or impairment of use. And as L continued to use their premises, albeit 
at a reduced capacity, no such inability has been demonstrated. 
Our investigator considered that the terms had been applied fairly, and didnt think Hiscox 
could be held to an assurance given during a phone call that the claim would be covered, 
even if that were proven. L strongly disagree, noting that the judgment also talked about 
situations in which businesses who were unable to use part of their premises should be 
granted cover. So, Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Ls submissions that the restrictions imposed upon them had a significant 
financial impact. With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide 
whether Hiscox should have met their claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy wording in full, 
Ive only addressed the aspects of cover most relevant to Ls circumstances below. 
The burden of proof rests with L in the first instance to show, on balance, theyve suffered a 
loss their policy covers. I can only consider the impact the events described above had on L, 
and not the people that run L. The policy is in Ls name, so theyre the eligible complainant. 
They are a limited company with their own, separate, legal identity. They cant suffer distress 
but can be inconvenienced. 
Non-damage denial of access
This covers L for:
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of the 
insured premises which results in a denial of access or hindrance in access to the 
insured premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order of the 
government or any public authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours;
During the test case, the High Court considered The Hiscox NDDA {non-damage denial of 
access} clause and referred to the above wording as the most common form of the clause. 
I dont intend to include the full discussion from the High Court judgment here, and can see 
our investigator has already highlighted the salient parts to L. 
In short, the judge said, there is no cover under the NDDA clause in respect of business 
interruption losses caused by the restrictions imposed by the government in response to the 
national pandemic. This aspect of the judgment wasnt appealed. Bearing that in mind, Im 
satisfied theres no cover under the non-damage denial of access clause for Ls claim. 
Public authority
Its this clause which has generated much debate between L and Hiscox. It covers L for 
business interruption caused by:
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following:
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak 
of which must be notified to the local authority; 
The parties to the test case agreed to divide businesses into different categories. The same 
categorisation was adopted by the Supreme Court (paragraph 36). In my opinion, L falls into 
Category 5: businesses not mentioned in the Governments March 2020 regulations at all, 
such as professional services firms like accountants and lawyers. The regulations were 
silent on this category of business, neither expressly requiring them to close nor expressly 
permitting them to remain open. But they were alleged to have suffered a reduction in 
turnover due to self-isolation and social distancing advice (the argument L has made). 
As the Supreme Court noted, the Hiscox public authority clauses, such as Ls, do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following an 
occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is caused by the 
policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such restrictions. 
Various arguments were made by both sides during the test case about how your inability to 
use the insured premises should be interpreted. The High Court concluded that it meant a 
complete inability to use the premises, save for use that is de minimis (or immaterial). In relation to Regulation 6 (during the emergency period, no person may leave the place 
where they are living without reasonable excuse) the High Court felt it didnt amount to a 
restriction imposed which could have led to an inability of use. Notably, it said:
it appears to us that the cases in which Regulation 6 would have caused an 
inability to use premises would be rare. Whether there were such cases would be a 
question of fact.
On appeal, the Supreme Court held that the inability to use requirement was satisfied 
either if the policyholder is unable to use the premises for a discrete part of its business 
activities or if it is unable to use a discrete part of its premises for its business activities.
It gave some examples of this, including a department store which has to close all parts of 
the store except its pharmacy and a golf course which is allowed to remain open but with its 
clubhouse closed. It also discussed an example of a travel agent whose business was 50% 
walk-in customers, 25% internet sales and 25% telephone sales. It noted that cover would 
only apply for that part of the business for which the premises cannot be used, even though 
all parts of the business may have been depressed by the effects of Covid-19 and the 
governmental measures taken. 
It reached the same conclusion as the High Court with regard to Regulation 6, and whether it 
satisfied the inability to use requirement, noting more generally that it is likely that it will be 
difficult for Category 3 and Category 5 businesses which were allowed to remain open to 
demonstrate the requisite inability. 
Both courts highlighted that an inability of use must be shown, rather than just a hindrance or 
disruption to a premises normal usage. 
L have also directed my attention to a section of the judgment in which the Supreme Court 
accepted that the ordinary meaning of interruption was quite capable of encompassing 
interference or disruption which does not lead to a complete cessation of business activities.
Ls interpretation of the above extracts is that they should be covered because they were 
unable to use the whole of their premises, and this caused interruption to their business. 
They had to create a safe distance between staff members, which meant they were unable 
to maintain their normal seating plan. Certain desks had to be left empty, meaning only a 
proportion of staff could continue to work. 
Although this may have interrupted Ls business, the interruption must fall within the policy 
wording, and needs to be caused by an inability to use the premises to trigger cover.    
Im not satisfied L have been able to demonstrate they were unable to use the premises for a 
discrete part of their business activities. Discrete means individually separate and distinct. 
L are a contact centre. They continued to use their premises to carry out that business 
activity throughout the pandemic, albeit at a reduced capacity. As the judgments point out, 
a hindrance or disruption in the use of a businesss premises doesnt equate to an inability 
to use the premises. L havent argued they carry out other individually separate and distinct 
business activities that the restrictions meant they were unable to use the premises for. 
Furthermore, Im not persuaded L have been able to demonstrate they were unable to use a 
discrete part of their premises for their business activities. Again, discrete means individually 
separate and distinct. And the Supreme Courts example of a golf club which is allowed to 
remain open but with its clubhouse closed should be borne in mind. I note our investigator 
gave a further relevant example of a business thats unable to use its restaurant but able to 
continue to provide a takeaway service. An inability to use certain desks in order to create a safe distance between staff members 
meant L couldnt use their premises at full capacity. But this doesnt, in my view, equate to 
an inability to use a discrete part of the premises. 
Finally, Ive considered whether, if L could demonstrate they received assurances from 
Hiscox that their claim would be covered, that should be considered a binding agreement. 
I want to be clear that, whilst I have regard for the law, I must ultimately reach my decision 
based on whats fair and reasonable to both parties. 
I think theres some confusion as to whether it was Hiscox who gave L this reassurance, or 
Ls broker (or both). And it looks like L originally only sought an assurance that theyd be 
covered if they were required to close (which they never were). In any event, in the days that 
followed the enactment of the relevant legislation, L complained to Hiscox via their broker:
The insured has been on the Hiscox website and noticed the latest update regarding 
business interruption claims. The insured does not agree with this and said the 
wording is clear on the cover {they} should have The insured does not want to wait 
until they have a claim to be told they dont have cover. Insured said they are willing 
to fight decision all the way as the policy wording should provide cover.
As such, its clear that, before they submitted a claim, and within a week or so of the 
legislation that affected Ls business being enacted, L were aware of Hiscoxs position that 
cover wouldnt apply. 
L didnt close on the understanding that Hiscox would cover any business interruption that 
arose from that. They refused to close unless they were told in writing that they must do so. 
And theyve been clear that any adaptations they made to their normal working practices 
were to comply with social distancing advice. So, even if L could demonstrate Hiscox initially 
assured them theyd be covered, I cant see they acted on that assurance to their detriment. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to direct Hiscox to accept the claim on this basis. 
I appreciate this is a matter L feel very strongly about, and Im mindful of the consequences 
my decision may have on L. But I havent found Hiscox acted unfairly in declining their claim. 
Im therefore not directing Hiscox to do anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ls complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask L to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman