DRN-2955173
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Conister Bank Limited (Conister) irresponsibly granted her a loan she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2016, Mrs S acquired a used car. She financed the deal through a five-year hire 
purchase agreement with Conister. The cash price of the car was £16,790 to which Mrs S 
contributed a deposit of £6,300. The total to pay under the agreement was £22,008.80 
including a small optional final payment Mrs S would need to pay if she wanted to own the 
car at the end of the agreement. 
Mrs S says that Conister didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Conister didnt agree. It said that it looked 
at Mrs Ss credit file and reviewed payslips and that those checks were proportionate and 
didnt suggest the loan was unaffordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought the checks Conister 
performed werent proportionate and that they should have reviewed Mrs Ss expenditure in 
more detail. If they had they would have realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Mrs S.
Conister didnt agree. They said a review of Mrs Ss income suggested she received about 
£1,237 per month and that the repayment amounts fell into what they considered an 
affordable range given that income. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Conister will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Conister said it considered Mrs Ss payslips and these showed her income level to be 
around £1,237 per month. They say they reviewed Mrs Ss credit file too. That showed that 
Mrs S had defaulted on at least ten accounts between May 2016 and July 2016 with a total 
value of over £21,000. Mrs S was also in arrears of six months on a utility account and in 
arrears on store card repayments. Mrs Ss file shows she had loans and regular repayments 
of £415 before rent, credit card debts and living expenses were considered. I think this ought 
to have indicated that Mrs S was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have 
been proportionate for Conister to have dug deeper, particularly to understand Mrs Ss 
expenditure before they lent to her.
So, I dont think the checks Conister performed were proportionate.
Conister should have found out more about Mrs Ss committed expenditure, such as her 
living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Conister would have found out if it had asked. In the 
absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the 
information contained in Mrs Ss bank statements as to what would most likely have been 
disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mrs Ss income when taking benefits into account was about £2,400. Bank 
statements show that regular committed expenditure for rent, utilities, insurances, loans, 
payday loans, credit cards and food was around £2,800 per month and that was before any 
expenses Mrs S would have incurred to run the car and to pay for her agreement with 
Conister. I think that demonstrates that Mrs S didnt have enough disposable income to 
afford the additional borrowing. Conister therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Conister ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mrs S should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £16,790. At the point the adjudicator set 
out her opinion of this complaint, Mrs S had paid about 95% of that value although she may 
now have paid more.
So, I think it would be fair for Mrs S to keep the car once shes paid the cash value of 
£16,790 and at that point Conister should transfer the ownership of the car to Mrs S.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and tell Conister Bank Limited to:
If Mrs S has now paid more than £16,790, representing the original cash price of the 
car. They should refund any overpayment and add 8% simple interest per year* from 
the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
If Mrs S hasnt yet paid £16,790 towards her agreement they should agree an 
affordable payment plan with Mrs S to do so, and when the cash price is paid, they 
should transfer ownership of the car to Mrs S;
Conister should remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mrs Ss 
credit file regarding this agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Conister Bank Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Conister Bank Limited must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
Mrs S asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman