DRN-3151708
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the amount she received from Covea Insurance plc in 
settlement of her claim under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Hs car was damaged in an accident and Covea decided it was a write-off (also known 
as a total loss). They settled Mrs Hs claim by paying the market value as defined in Mrs Hs 
policy, which they said was £12,394, less the policy excess. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with the market value Covea had used and complained to them. But 
Covea said they thought the settlement amount was in line with the policy terms and 
therefore correct. 
Mrs H asked us to consider a complaint about Covea. One of our investigators did this and 
concluded the market value Covea had used was correct and that this meant what they had 
paid in settlement of Mrs Hs claim was fair.
Mrs H doesnt agree with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Shes said she was unable to purchase a similar car for the amount Covea suggested was 
the market value at the time her car was written off. And that shed only had her car for a 
short time before the accident and had paid £13,897 for it. She has said that she expected to 
get somewhere near this amount. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs policy says that if her car is a total loss the most Covea will pay is the market value. 
This is defined as the cost of replacing the insured car with another of the same make, 
specification, model, age, mileage and condition as the insured car immediately before the 
loss or damaged happened. 
When the policy wording says this, our normal approach for this sort of complaint is to check 
the insurance company has properly used the guides to work out the market value of the car 
the claim is for. These are guides used by insurers and car retailers to check the likely cost 
of replacing the insured car with a similar one at the date the loss or damage occurred. If the 
insurance company have done this and based their settlement on the guide price, less any 
excess applicable, then we will normally say what they have paid in settlement is fair. 
Ive checked the guides and Im satisfied Covea used them properly and based their 
settlement on the right market value. The guides indicate the likely selling price of similar 
cars to Mrs Hs car. And, in our experience they are based on reliable data from car retailers 
and are an accurate reflection of the market. This doesnt mean that a claimant will always 
be able to find a like for like replacement at the time of settlement, as cars come on the 
market at different times and in different areas. But it should have been possible for Mrs H to 
find a like for like replacement for the market value suggested by Covea somewhere not too 
far from where she lives at some point close to when her claim was settled. 
I do appreciate its not always easy to find the right car, but we have to consider whether 
what the insurer has done is in line with the policy terms and good industry practice. And if 
this is the case, we will normally find what they have done is fair and reasonable. And Im 
satisfied thats the case with Mrs Hs claim. This means its not appropriate for me to uphold 
her complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Covea 
Insurance plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman