DRN-3120223
The complaint
Mr F complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums he paid 
for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr F purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The 
policy was purchased on 22 October 2019, to cover any trips of up to 35 days duration taken 
worldwide. The policy started on 22 October 2019 and ended on 21 October 2020. 
Mr F paid £154.27 excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of annual 
multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered him for a number of declared medical 
conditions. He also paid an additional premium of £17.90 (excluding IPT) for excess waiver 
cover. In total, Mr F paid £206.60 for his policy including IPT.
On 22 October 2020, Mr F contacted Great Lakes to request that it cancel his policy and 
send him a 50% refund of his travel insurance premium because he said hed been unable 
to travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Great Lakes informed Mr F that a refund couldnt be provided as his cooling off period had 
expired. And it said that, under the terms of his policy, no refund was due. Mr Fs annual 
policy had also expired by the time he contacted Great Lakes. So, it said it could offer him 
either a deferred annual policy, a new policy of 15 months for the price of 12 or a UK only 
annual multi trip policy in the alternative. But Mr F wasnt happy with Great Lakes offer and 
complained to our service.
After Mr F referred his complaint to us, Great Lakes revised its proposed resolution and 
offered a 20% discount off the based premium of any new policy. This offer, and Mr Fs 
complaint, was considered by our investigator, who acknowledged the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 22 October 2019 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. And they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint as they thought Great Lakes offer to settle Mr Fs complaint was fair and 
reasonable. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr F didnt and 
requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair 
and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr F to receive a refund of the 
premiums he paid because: 
Cover under Mr Fs policy commenced immediately once it had been purchased, 
which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate he received. Im satisfied Mr 
F was reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to his policy, which are 
typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
Mr F didnt contact Great Lakes to request cancellation of his policy until after his 
policy had expired. This was outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
I understand why any travel plans which Mr F might have had during the policy year 
changed due to circumstances outside of his control. So, Ive thought about whether 
it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and 
the terms and conditions of Mr Fs contract because of the exceptional and 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr 
Fs contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 22 
October 2019.
Mr F was insured from 22 October 2019 for travelling on any number of trips of up to 
35 days duration which he may have taken until the policy expired. Mr F has said he 
only used his policy in September 2020, when he travelled to Europe. He stated he 
didnt have the opportunity of travelling outside of Europe due to the pandemic. 
I acknowledge Mr Fs candour in relation to the travel he was able to undertake while 
covered by this policy. But, because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies 
work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a policyholder has taken since their policy was incepted. Even if there was only one holiday, Mr F made 
use of his annual policy and Great Lakes was covering the risk of a claim during the 
time the policy was in force.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr F for cancellation of any holidays which he 
had booked and was due to take from 22 October 2019 until 21 October 2020. So, 
Mr F would have been covered if he had to cancel any number of holidays because 
of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, him falling ill with 
a declared pre-existing medical condition. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mr F making a successful cancellation claim for 
any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of 
holidays, from 22 October 2019 until 21 October 2020. Its a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr 
Fs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums 
relating to the risk it covered.
Mr F paid for optional excess waiver cover. Excess waiver cover means that no 
excess is payable in respect of any claim submitted under the general cover outlined 
in the policy. But Great Lakes covered the risk of a claim and therefore the use of the 
excess waiver cover throughout the policy. 
Even though Mr Fs annual policy had expired by the time he contacted Great Lakes 
to request a refund, it offered him a number of alternatives including a deferred 
annual policy, a new policy of 15 months for the price of 12 or a UK only annual multi 
trip policy. I think these offers were fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances 
of this complaint and I wouldnt have directed Great Lakes to have taken any further 
action to resolve Mr Fs concerns.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, after Mr F referred his complaint 
to our service, Great Lakes offered him a 20% discount towards the cost of a new 
policy as an alternative resolution to those initially proposed. Given that Mr F had 
travelled under his policy, and that it had expired by the time he contacted Great 
Lakes to request a refund, Im satisfied this offer is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman