DRN-3400795
The complaint
Mr H complains that Embark Investment Services Limited trading as Stocktrade (Embark) 
failed to transfer his pension savings to another provider in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr H held pension savings in a self-invested pension plan (SIPP). The administration of the 
SIPP was migrated to Embark in January 2021, but Embark is responsible for the all the 
matters that form part of this complaint. For ease I will simply refer to Embark as the SIPP 
administrator throughout this decision.
The SIPP itself was provided by another firm that I will call C. In November 2020 Mr H asked 
for his pension savings to be transferred to another provider. That instruction was passed to 
Embark by C in December 2020. Mr H wanted, as far as possible, for his pension 
investments to be transferred in-specie. But the new provider didnt hold a number of his 
investments on its platform, so in December he gave instructions for the sale of some of his 
pension investments leaving a large cash balance in his SIPP.
In January 2021 Embark started the transfer process, and begun communicating with the 
new provider to agree trade and settlement dates. Embark agreed with C that it would first 
complete all the in-specie transfers, before remitting the remaining cash balance. C asked 
that balance to be paid to its account so it could deduct any final charges before sending the 
monies onto the new provider. But, as the transfer was getting underway in January, the new 
provider needed additional information or was slow to respond, so some initial proposed 
trade dates were missed. And that then meant that the transfer activity had to be suspended 
whilst the SIPP was being migrated to Embarks processing platform. That migration took 
place over the weekend of 23 January.
On 18 January, concerned about the time the transfer was taking, Mr H had requested that 
Embark send the cash balance to the new provider immediately. And I can see that C 
confirmed that request to Embark a few days later. But it again asked that the cash balance 
be first sent to its account, and it would then forward it to the new provider.
Embark says that it wasnt able to implement that instruction immediately whilst the account 
migration was taking place. And it then says that further delays were experienced whilst it 
confirmed the banking details of C, and where the funds should be sent. Embark told Mr H 
that his cash balance had been sent to the new provider on 4 March and should be received 
by the end of that day. But Mr H contacted Embark a few days later to say that the funds 
hadnt been received by the new provider. Almost two weeks elapsed before Embark 
explained that the cash balance had actually been sent to C. 
Mr Hs in-specie transfers completed between February and May 2021. Again these 
experienced some delays whilst discussions took place between Embark and the new 
provider about which depositary should be used to hold and transfer some of the 
investments.
Mr H complained to Embark about the way his transfer had been handled. In particular he 
cited the upset and worry hed been caused during the time his cash balance appeared to 
have gone missing after it had been transferred by Embark. And he said that he might have 
missed out on investment growth due to the time a large portion of his SIPP monies were 
held in cash. Embark accepted that the transfer had taken too long and paid Mr H £250 for 
the inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He noted that whilst the 
in-specie transfers had taken some time, Mr H had not lost out as he remained invested at 
all times. But he thought that the time taken to transfer the cash balance had been too long 
and might have meant that Mr H had lost out. Our investigator wasnt however able to 
determine how Mr H might have invested his pension savings if they had been transferred 
sooner. He noted that some of the monies still remained in cash. And there didnt seem to be 
any structured investment plan for the pension savings. So he thought the loss Mr H had 
suffered could best be compensated by a further payment to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience that had been caused. So he asked Embark to pay a further £500 to Mr H.
Mr H discussed the outcome with our investigator and said that he thought the redress 
proposal was fair. But Embark didnt agree. It said the proposed compensation was out of 
line with how this Service had dealt with complaints of a similar nature. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process. If Mr H accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by Embark. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There have been three different regulated firms involved in Mr Hs transfer. Embark that is 
the subject of this complaint, C the provider of Mr Hs original SIPP, and the firm to which the 
pension monies were transferred. I think it would be fair to conclude that the actions of each 
of these firms contributed to the delays and upset experienced by Mr H. But this complaint is 
only in relation to the actions of Embark. So I will limit my findings solely to the part played 
by that firm.
Embark has accepted that Mr Hs transfer took too long, and paid him some compensation. 
So the matter that falls to me in this decision is to decide what would be reasonable to ask 
Embark to do, in order to compensate Mr H for any losses hes incurred, and the 
inconvenience hes been caused.But in saying that I think it is important that I reflect on the overall time the transfer took, and 
compare that with what I think might be generally reasonable for transfers of this nature. As 
the length of that delay does have an influence on the impact on Mr H.
Mr Hs transfer wasnt the simplest that Embark might be asked to complete that would 
have involved a simple transfer of cash. And I accept that some of Mr Hs pension 
investments were not UK based and, one asset appears to have suffered from some liquidity 
problems. But, in simple terms, Embark needed to request the re-registration of the 
investment holdings, and transfer the cash balance Mr H held.
 
I set out some of the timeline of the transfer earlier on in this decision. There were some 
lengthy delays whilst the process was awaiting action by Embark, particularly in relation to 
the cash transfer after the systems migration had taken place. Whilst I accept that Embark 
wasnt responsible for all of the delays, I dont think the overall time taken to complete the 
transfer was acceptable.
In this decision I need to consider whether any delays caused a direct financial loss to Mr H. 
Like our investigator, I have noted that whilst the in-specie transfer was taking place Mr Hs 
pension savings in those assets remained invested. So there wasnt any time that he was 
out of the market. I have considered that during the time of the transfer Mr H was effectively 
prevented from selling those assets, and purchasing new investments, but for the reasons 
I will now go on to explain, I cannot reasonably conclude that led to a financial loss.
I think the aspect that should give me most concern is the period of time that Mr H held a 
large cash balance in his SIPP. That balance had arisen, in part, due to the need for Mr H to 
liquidate some investments that couldnt be transferred in-specie. Those sales took place in 
December 2020, and the cash balance didnt reach the new provider until 15 March. I accept 
that Embark completed its work on this part of the transfer on 4 March. And there was a 
period of time when the transfer of the cash couldnt be made due to the migration activities. 
But even so, I think the transfer was completed more than a month later than it should have 
been. 
But it is difficult for me to reasonably conclude that Mr H has lost out on investment returns 
due to that delay. He has told us that he didnt have a clear investment strategy in place  
instead it seems he based his decisions on those investment opportunities that appeared 
attractive at the time. So investments he made when the funds were transferred in 
March 2021, might not have been made if the transfer had happened sooner. I cannot 
therefore reasonably conclude that the same investments Mr H made would have been 
made earlier if the transfer hadnt been delayed, and use that as the basis for assessing 
reasonable compensation.
I am also mindful that a reasonable proportion of the transferred cash balance wasnt 
immediately invested. In the month following the transfer only around two thirds of the cash 
balance was invested. The cash that remained uninvested didnt attract any material interest 
payments. So I also think it would be unreasonable to consider that Mr H should be 
compensated by interest for the loss of use of his money in line with our normal approach.
As I said earlier, our investigator did discuss these two methods of compensation with Mr H 
and he also agreed that their use might unduly enrich him. Mr H was very clear that he didnt 
bring this complaint to seek compensation for any potential financial losses  but he does 
think compensation for his trouble and upset is warranted.
In my introduction I explained that there was a lengthy period of time during which Embark 
told Mr H it had paid his cash balance to the new provider, and the new provider said it 
hadnt received the funds. It was almost two weeks later that Embark clarified that the funds had actually been paid to C. I think it entirely understandable that Mr H faced a great deal of 
worry during that time and he has explained that the worry and stress had an impact on his 
health at that time.
So it is right that Mr H should be compensated for the distress and inconvenience he has 
been caused. As I said earlier Embark has paid Mr H £250 in recognition of the 
inconvenience, but I dont think that amount is sufficient given what Ive said above. Instead 
I think a total payment of £750 would be more appropriate. So Embark should pay an 
additional sum of £500 to Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Embark Investment Services 
Limited to pay additional compensation to Mr H of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman