DRN-2550906
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the assistance provided by Union Reiseversicherung AG 
(URV) when making a claim under their travel insurance policy.
All references to URV include its claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had the benefit of an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
URV, covering June 2019 to June 2020 (the policy). 
They travelled abroad at the start of 2020 and as part of that trip, they embarked on a cruise. 
Whilst on the cruise ship, Mr P unfortunately suffered a heart attack and ended up being 
disembarked and taken to hospital. Mrs P contacted URV for assistance under the policy.
Mr P spent around a week in hospital before being discharged on 14 February 2020. Once it 
was considered that Mr P was fit to fly, URV agreed to cover the cost of Mr and Mrs Ps 
flights back to the UK. This included business class seats for Mr P. However, because URV 
didnt think it was medically necessary for Mr P to be accompanied on the flights home, it 
only agreed to cover the cost of Mrs P to fly back home economy class.
Given everything that had happened, the length of the flights, and that Mr P was still 
experiencing issues with his memory and needed to take multiple medications, Mr and Mrs P 
didnt want to be apart. They say URV wouldnt allow Mr P to downgrade his ticket, so Mrs P 
ended up paying to upgrade her flights back to the UK to be with Mr P. 
Mr and Mrs P dont think that was fair. So, they complained to our Service. Theyd like URV 
to reimburse them the amount they paid for the upgraded flights for Mrs P which cost just 
over £3,000.
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagree so their complaint has 
been passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
URV has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy being met, the policy does cover:
additional travel, accommodation and repatriation costs to be made for, or by you 
and for any one other person who is required for medical reasons to stay with you, to 
travel to you from your home country or to travel to you, where it is deemed medically 
necessary.
The policy also goes on to say that:
      No cover is provided under this section for:
-Additional flights which exceed the standard of that originally booked unless 
medically necessary and agreed with Emergency Assistance Facilities
Mr and Mrs P had pre-booked economy class seats for their return flight back to the UK. 
So, I think the crux of the issue I have to decide is whether it was medically necessary for 
Mrs P to travel with Mr P. And if not - considering that Mr and Mrs P wanted to travel home 
together in same section of the aircraft - I have to consider whether URV unreasonably 
decided that Mr P needed to fly home in business class.
Ive seen a medical information for air travel form dated 23 February 2020 submitted to the 
airline and completed by a doctor at the hospital at which Mr P was treated (the medical 
information form). It confirms that:
-The prognosis for the flight was good and no problems were anticipated;
-He can use a normal aircraft seat;
-He can take care of his own needs aboard the flight unassisted; and
-He didnt require an escort.
I can completely understand why Mr and Mrs P wouldve wanted to travel with each other for 
all the reasons theyve stated. But I dont think URVs decision that it wasnt medically 
necessary for Mrs P to travel with Mr P was unfair. And I dont think its unreasonably 
declined to the cover the cost of upgrading Mrs Ps flights back to the UK  especially as the 
original booking confirms that she was due to fly back to the UK economy class. 
Ive also taken on board that the medical information form doesnt say that Mr P needed to 
fly back to the UK in business class. But I dont think URVs decision not to agree to Mr and 
Mrs Ps request to downgrade the business class flight it had secured for him to be 
unreasonable. 
I can see from URVs internal notes dated 24 February 2020 that its own medical team 
advised that Mr P should travel home in business class.
Our investigator asked URV why it took that decision and it confirmed by way of an email 
dated 19 January 2021 that having spoken to its medical team they have advised:
given the medical condition that the customer had gone through, to ensure he was 
able to rest on the flight, a business class seat was medically necessary.
Having considered the medical evidence on file, including the hospital reports, and what Mr 
P had gone through at the time, I dont think URVs decision that he required rest  and that 
this was medically necessary - was unreasonable.  And I dont think its unreasonable to 
assume that being in business class wouldve made the journey more physically comfortable 
and rest more likely. 
I know Mr and Mrs P will be very disappointed with my decision. But I hope it will help them 
to know that their complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and 
independent.
My final decisionI dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman