DRN-3640641
The complaint
Mr C complains Equifax Limited have:
Refused to load a Notice of Correction (NoC) until he was verified
Failed to remove a fraudulent phone number from his records
Marked his case as resolved without telling him the outcome
Failed to ensure another party used their data, about him, securely
What happened
Following receipt of a letter from a building society saying his current account was 
overdrawn, Mr C contacted the provider  explaining he didnt have an account with them. It 
transpired Mr C was the victim of identity theft and the account had been opened 
fraudulently.
Mr C raised his concerns with a company Ill refer to as C, who explained they get their data 
from Equifax. He contacted Equifax and asked them to load a NoC explaining he was the 
victim of identity theft. Equifax said they wouldnt do so without him providing identification 
documents. Later on, as part of his investigations Mr C found a phone number had been 
provided to Equifax by another company, so he asked Equifax to remove this. They again 
said he needed to verify himself before they would do so. 
Mr C ultimately complained to Equifax about these two issues, and that theyd not replied to 
a previous contact. He also expressed concerns over the security measures of C  a 
company who works in partnership with Equifax.
In their response to his complaint, Equifax said they couldnt locate the mobile number hed 
quoted on their records, and said they needed to make sure they were dealing with the right 
person which is why theyd asked for identification  although an agent had since incorrectly 
loaded a NoC before this had been provided. They said they were right to ask for 
identification, but as the NoC had now been loaded it wouldnt be removed. And in relation to 
closing down his dispute, they said sorry for not replying to that contact. Finally, in relation to 
C, they said they take their own security, and that of their partners, very seriously.
Unhappy with this Mr C asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
overall didnt think Equifax needed to do anything more.
Mr C disagreed and listed out a number of points he remained concerned about  including 
that the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) had said its unlikely Equifax complied with 
their data protection obligations. As Mr C didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address each complaint issue separately.
Refused to load a Notice of Correction (NoC) until Mr C was verified
I can see Mr C made Equifax aware hed been the victim of identity theft in June 2021. His 
request was for Equifax to add a NoC to his credit file, to prevent further attempts by the 
fraudster to take out credit in his name.
Equifaxs response was to explain they required Mr C to send in identification documents to 
do this  as any amendments could have an impact on his credit file, so they had to be sure 
they were dealing with the right person.
Mr C explained that due to the recent issues he was far more cautious about sending 
documents now. He said he didnt want Equifax to tell him anything from his file, just record 
the NoC.
Ive seen that Equifax still said they required identification documents, and I do think this was 
reasonable. Any change to someones credit file could have a significant impact on 
decisions theyre making. So, given there had been allegations of fraud already, I dont think 
Equifax were acting unreasonably in being cautious. And, it seems, its their process to 
require identification documents in these circumstances.
I can see our Investigator has explained to Mr C we cant change Equifaxs processes, we 
can only look at whether theyve applied them fairly. And, given what Ive said above, I think 
they have.
I understand though a NoC was later added, albeit in error, by Equifax. So, although I dont 
think Equifax had done anything wrong, Mr C has had the NoC recorded as he wished 
without having to provide any identification.
Failed to remove a fraudulent phone number from his records
In September 2021 Mr C had received some further information which showed an incorrect 
mobile phone number was recorded against his credit file. He asked Equifax to remove this.
In response, Equifax again asked Mr C to identify himself, which he again explained he was 
reluctant to do. He said hed asked the source of the incorrect mobile number to update it 
with Equifax.
When Mr C initially raised this in September 2021, Equifaxs response was he needed to 
verify himself. When he then raised it again in early 2022 Equifax explained they couldnt 
see the mobile number this time  saying it might be on their old system.
Initially in line with my findings about Equifax having asked Mr C to identify himself, I think 
theyve acted fairly  as I dont know how else Equifax can assure themselves theyre 
dealing with the correct person.
Ive noted Equifax said the mobile number might now be on their old system so can t be 
seen anymore. Its also possible the company Mr C asked to remove the number from 
Equifaxs records did this. Thats because they owned the data, so if they were satisfied with 
Mr Cs comment the mobile number didnt belong to him, they could remove it from display 
with Equifax which might be another reason why Equifax can no longer see it.
Ive noted the ICO have said in their view its unlikely Equifax have complied with their data 
protection obligations as they didnt act on Mr Cs request to have his data rectified. But, 
whats not completely clear to me, is if the ICO were aware Equifax required Mr C to verify himself before taking any action. I say that because Mr C has said the ICO quoted to him 
organisations such as Equifax may ask individuals to verify themselves by providing a 
document like a passport or driving licence  which is what Equifax wanted to do. So, it 
would seem the ICO are also saying its acceptable for an organisation to want to verify 
someone in Mr Cs circumstances.
In any event, Im required to assess cases based on the evidence available to me  and 
while Im required to take into account the law, my overarching remit is to consider things on 
a purely fair and reasonable basis. I also note the ICO hasnt explicitly said Equifax didnt 
comply with data protection law, only that it was unlikely.
Taking everything into account, although its unclear when or how the mobile number was 
removed, Im satisfied on a fair and reasonable basis Equifax acted fairly when dealing with 
this issue.
Marked his case as resolved without telling him the outcome
Equifax have given the explanation that disputes with them are closed after seven days if no 
reply is received from the individual.
Ive looked at Mr Cs own chronology of whats happened. I can see on 7 September 2021 
hes asked Equifax to get back to him when the company had removed the mobile number. 
Equifax wouldnt know when the number was removed, unless the company explicitly told 
them  and in this scenario Id likely have expected the company to get back to him as they 
were the ones hed asked to take action.
But, I dont think its good Equifax didnt reply to this contact, and I can see they said sorry to 
Mr C for this as the dispute was closed in error. I cant see its had any significant impact on 
Mr C though, so I think Equifaxs apology is enough to resolve this issue. 
Failed to ensure another party used their data, about him, securely
Mr C has raised a separate complaint against C which Ive also addressed  and in that 
complaint Ive found C didnt do anything wrong.
Ive noted Mr Cs comments about Equifaxs responsibilities regarding the security of their 
data, and that if standards arent rigorous enough then any contract between them and the 
partner would be terminated. But, as Ive also found C didnt do anything wrong with their 
security procedures based on all the information available, it follows I dont think Equifax 
have done anything wrong on this point either. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman