DRN-4038994
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a Personal Contract Plan 
(PCP) with FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit. She would like the full cost of a significant 
repair incurred refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Its disappointing that Ford Credit havent responded to our investigators view. But 
as it has had several opportunities to do so I think its only fair to Miss B that I now go 
ahead and make a final decision on her complaint.
Miss B took out an agreement for a new car in April 2018, as such she could 
reasonably have expected it to be fault free. The head gasket blew in May 2022 
requiring a new engine. As this was more than six months after Miss B got the car we 
would normally say it would be down to Miss B to prove a point-of-sale problem for 
which Ford Credit is responsible. Miss B said the car wasnt independently inspected 
when the head gasket blew as it was recovered to the dealership where it was 
subsequently repaired. In the absence of an independent report, I must consider all 
the other information provided to see if, on a balance of probabilities, the issue is one 
for which Ford Credit is responsible.
Ford Credit has made the point that it was too long since the point of sale for it to be 
responsible for the issue but it did contribute £1000 towards the cost of the repair. 
The manufacturer paid £7826.73 leaving a shortfall of £956.68 for Miss B to pay. 
Miss B drove just over 42000 miles in the four years until the engine failed. We 
usually say a head gasket issue shouldnt be expected to arise until around 100,000 
miles have been driven. Miss B has told us she had the car regularly inspected each 
year and the only issue arising from MOTs carried out was a worn brake pad after 
she had driven. 400,080 miles. Ford Credit hasnt disputed this information, neither 
has it indicated any potential driver style issue that might have caused the gasket to 
blow
Given the car was a new one, Miss B hasnt driven excessive mileage, there is no 
evidence Miss B hasnt correctly maintained the car or that her driving style was a 
contributory factor, and the failure was a significant one that we wouldnt expect to 
see so early in the cars history, I am persuaded that the car wasnt durable at the 
point of sale . So, I dont think its reasonable that Miss B covers any of the cost of 
repair. And I also think some compensation, as suggested by our investigator, is 
appropriate for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss B
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit should :-
Refund the cost of repairs that Miss B funded - £956.68
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on this sum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay Miss B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Miss Bs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman