DRN-2742946
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the valuation it 
placed on his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P made a claim under his car insurance policy after he was involved in an accident. 
Ageas considered his claim and decided that his car was beyond economical repair and 
wrote it off. Mr P retained the salvage of the car but wasnt happy with the valuation Ageas 
paid him for his modern classic car. So, he complained to Ageas and then this service as it 
didnt increase the valuation.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P and initially upheld his complaint. He thought that 
Ageas should get an independent valuation of his car or increase the valuation by about a 
thousand pounds. But when Ageas looked to get the car independently valued Mr P had 
already sold the car so it couldnt be valued.
Ageas provided some further details from an engineer about how it had valued Mr Ps car. 
The engineer concentrated on the pictures of Mr Ps car in outlining why they thought the 
valuation was fair, highlighting some pre-existing damage to Mr Ps car. And based on this 
our investigator eventually concluded that Ageas original valuation was fair. As Mr P didnt 
agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know Mr P wont be happy 
about this, but Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr P is unhappy, especially as there was a suggestion that the 
complaint should be upheld and his car independently valued. But once the car was sold 
then the position changed and so the only thing I can focus on is whether the original 
valuation was fair. 
When considering valuations placed on cars, I consider the approach the insurer has 
adopted and look to decide whether or not the valuation was fair in all the circumstances. As 
our investigator explained this service pays particular attention to the various trade guides 
used for valuing second hand cars, as well as any other evidence provided by both sides. 
In this case Ive also looked at the various adverts provided for the sale of similar cars. I 
must highlight that I place less weight on these as cars dont normally sell for the price they 
are advertised for. The condition of the car at the time of the incident is also an important 
factor to consider. And I must highlight I will only ask an insurer to increase its valuation if I 
consider it has acted unfairly.
But Having considered all the evidence I dont think I can say Ageas has acted unreasonably 
here. Valuing second hand cars is far from an exact science and Ive looked at the guides 
and having done so I cant say Ageas has acted unfairly. It has valued Mr Ps car in line with 
the guides and made deductions for some pre-existing damage. Ive seen photographs of Mr 
Ps car and there clearly was some pre-existing damage, so this doesnt seem unreasonable 
and the deductions have been made in line with our general approach. Indeed, the adverts 
that I have seen for cars that were advertised for a higher amount certainly seem to be in 
better condition than Mr Ps.
I can understand why the investigator asked Ageas to get the car inspected. But the car was 
sold by Mr P around the time he was notified by Ageas that it was going to inspect the car so 
unfortunately the car couldnt be looked at. I also understand that Mr P sold the car for over 
a thousand pounds more than Ageas paid him having done a small amount of work on it. So, 
it seems to me that Mr P is in a better position now any way. 
As such, although it would have been helpful to have Mr Ps car valued, I think the market 
value Ageas offered seems fair. And Mr P has gone on to sell the car for more than it was 
valued at so is in a better financial position in any event.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman