The complaint
Mr C's unhappy with the car insurance settlement offer he's been given by Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited after his car was written off.
What happened
Following an accident, Mr C made a claim on his insurance policy. Advantage obtained an 
independent engineer's report that concluded it would cost more to fix Mr C's car than it's 
market value. So it declared it a write-off and made an initial offer of £3,900 to settle the 
claim. Mr C rejected that offer. Advantage made a further offer of £4,550, less
Mr C's excess of £595. 
Advantage obtained three valuations from car pricing guides. These ranged from £3,265 to 
£4,550. Mr C said to Advantage that the prices he could find for similar cars on the market 
were much more than all of these valuations. He considers his car to be a relatively rare 
model that sells for in the region of £6,000 for examples with a similar mileage, condition and 
service history. He provided copy adverts for such vehicles.
Advantage offered to settle Mr C's claim at the highest of the three valuations - £4,550.
Mr C didn't agree and complained about the time taken to deal with his claim and the 
subsequent complaint. Advantage didn't change its decision on the claim valuation but did 
offer Mr C £100 for the service failings, which he accepted.
Our investigator considered Mr C's complaint about the valuation but didn't think it should be 
upheld. The matter has now come to me for a decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand Mr C's concerns that he's been made an offer to settle his claim that won't 
allow him to purchase an equivalent vehicle. So he doesn't think that Advantage has 
indemnified him for his loss or put him back into the position he was in before the accident.
However, I'm afraid that I will have to disappoint Mr C, as I don't think his complaint is one I 
can uphold. I'll explain why.
Mr C provided us with a valuation for his car which indicated that it was worth in the region of 
£5,880. Unfortunately, as Mr C accepts, that valuation had a loss date a couple of years 
before Mr C's accident. So the valuation provided was for a car that was two years younger.
DRN-1075485The searches that both we and Advantage have undertaken gave a maximum value of 
£4,550. Whilst I might in normal circumstances have expected Advantage to offer an 
average of the highest two valuations, it has offered the higher of the two.
I've considered carefully the advertisements that Mr C has provided to us. Of course none of 
those cars are identical to his own. They all have varying different mileages, numbers of 
owners and service histories. And it's impossible to know whether or not they were in the 
exact same condition as Mr C's car, without seeing the individual cars concerned.
Mr C has told us that his enquiries found that the cars had gone for very close to the 
advertised price. I don't doubt that. But it would really only be in circumstances where a car 
was very rare indeed and/or there was no market information available for it, that I might 
consider deviating from the professional valuation guides that we and the industry use. Mr 
C's searches clearly indicate there are a number of vehicles similar to his available. And my 
online enquiries have found the same. Indeed, the asking prices vary quite significantly too, 
depending on the number of owners, mileage, service history, location, etc.
Whilst I do not doubt that Mr C's car was a good example of the type of vehicle, the 
searches that we've done have been tailored to the mileage, etc for his car. So I have no 
reason to think that they're incorrect, other than because of Mr C's copy advertisements. But 
as I've said, I found numerous other adverts online that had an even wider range of prices - 
some higher and some lower than the valuation guides. 
The guides refer to the average price of what a consumer may need to pay. They're not an 
indication of the maximum or  minimum value of transactions completed. But are an estimate 
of what a dealer might reasonably obtain, after negotiation, for a similar car. It wouldn't be 
fair or reasonable for me to ask Advantage to pay the price asked in the adverts, which will 
generally have been priced to allow for some negotiation. That's particularly the case given 
the quite wide range available online too.
Mr C's also said that he thinks Advantage's definition of 'market value' is misleading and 
certain aspects of it haven't been met. But I don't agree. The definition refers to replacing the 
car with one of a 'similar make, model, age & condition'. It doesn't say it has to be identical, 
given clearly any car of this age will have different mileage and wear and tear, inside and 
out, to Mr C's car. 
Mr C has also said the amount paid should be the cost to replace the car from a retail dealer. 
I don't disagree with that. But that is what the valuation guides provide for. There are other 
prices quoted for private sale and trade-in, which are generally much lower.
The definition of ' market value' also says that Advantage 'may' use vehicle value publications 
to determine a price. Mr C thinks that this is something that it doesn't have to do, preferring 
for it to have relied on his market research. The use of valuation guides in the industry is 
common market practice. And as I've said above, I don't think this is a case where it was 
necessary for Advantage to value the car in any way other than in accordance with normal 
market practice. And that's what its definition says it may do.
So, overall, I don't think that Advantage has acted unfairly or unreasonably in making Mr C 
the settlement offer that it has.
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold this complaint against Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited and I won't be requiring it to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2019.
James Kennard
Ombudsman