DRN-3996303
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as J has complained about the service it received from Jelf
Insurance Brokers Limited following a claim on its business interruption insurance policy.
Mr H, a director of J, has brought the complaint on Js behalf.
What happened
J held commercial insurance through Jelf for a number of years. In March 2020, J claimed
on its policy for losses incurred as a result of Covid-19 and the Governments response to
the pandemic. Js insurer indicated that there wasnt cover under the policy but that this
would be reviewed following the outcome of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)
Business Interruption Insurance test case.
In January 2021, Js insurer wrote to say that cover was restricted to businesses mandatorily
required to close and ultimately turned down Js claim as it didnt think J had been required
to close.
J complained to Jelf about the support it had provided during the claim.
Jelf said it had kept J updated and that from 8 February 2021, J had chosen to communicate
with the insurer directly. Jelf said that only the insurer could decide whether the claim should
be paid and that it had decided not to intervene as it thought the insurer had made its
decision in line with the outcome of the FCA test case.
Unhappy with Jelfs response, J brought its complaint to our service. It had four main
complaint points:
1. Jelf sold the policy on the basis that it would respond to certain types of claim. This
    turned out to be incorrect.
2. Jelf didnt let J know that it only sold policies from one insurer.
3. Jelf didnt recommend that J increase its level of cover, meaning that it was
    underinsured.
4. Jelf didnt support J in its claim to the insurer and relied on a statement that it knew to
    be incorrect.
Jelf agreed to our service considering all of Js complaint points even though some had not
previously been raised with it.
Our Investigator looked into Js complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought
Jelf had provided appropriate information at the renewal of the policy and reasonable
support during the claim.
J asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said it had requested support from Jelf on a
number of occasions which hadnt been provided. J didnt think it was acceptable for Jelf to
say that it agreed with the insurers position and do nothing when it should have been acting
in Js interests. J thought Jelf was wrong to say that the insurer had fairly turned down its
claim.
J said that it also wasnt clear that Jelf only sold policies from one insurer, but that this might
explain why Jelf hadnt properly advised J regarding cover for its needs.
J referred to paragraphs 53-63 of Jones v Environcom Limited (2010) - Neutral Citation
Number: [2010] EWHC 759 (Comm) in support of why it believes Jelf didnt provide
appropriate information about the policy and why it didnt appropriately explain to J its duty of
disclosure when buying a policy.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 February 2023. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Covid-19 and the Governments actions have had a significant impact on Js
business. However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
J has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going to
address each one in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central
issues to this complaint. I will deal with each of Js complaint points in turn.
Jelf sold the policy on the basis that it would respond to certain types of claim. This 
turned out to be incorrect.
J held a continuous policy through Jelf. The Duty of Disclosure document sent to J in 2019
says a continuous policy is:
This insurance policy is a continuous policy. Your policy will remain in force on
existing terms at the above stated premium until either party gives notice of
cancellation in accordance with the general terms and conditions of the policy
(please refer to your policy documents). Your policy does not require annual
renewal and the last policy schedule you received is still in force. You do not 
need a new schedule but, if you require an updated copy, please contact your 
broker.
The anniversary date of the policy is in November each year, although in communication to
J, Jelf refers to the renewal of the policy. For consistency I will also refer to it as a renewal.
I have started by considering the requirements on Jelf when it renewed Js policy.
J has referred to the courts comments at paragraph 53 in Jones v Environcom Limited
(2010) - Neutral Citation Number: [2010] EWHC 759 (Comm) which set out the requirements 
on a business as set out in the FSA Insurance Conduct of Business Handbook dated May 
2007. However, I think the industry guidelines which were in place at the time of the renewal 
are more relevant. These are set out in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS), which is within the FCA Handbook. This says that when selling a policy a firm 
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy which is consistent 
with them. As this was an advised sale, Jelf also had a duty to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the suitability of its advice. Under PRIN 2.1 Principles for Business, Jelf had an 
obligation to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Jelf wrote to J before the renewal in November 2019 to set out the proposed terms of the
policy and level of cover. In relation to business interruption insurance, the letter sets out that
J required cover for Indemnity in the event of damage to or loss of your property and any
increased costs of working/any loss of Revenue arising there from. I think this specified Jsdemands and needs with regard to business interruption cover. The policy recommended by
Jelf provided cover for loss of revenue as a result of damage or loss to property, so I believe
this was consistent with the needs that were specified.
Different policies provide cover for different risks and it isnt unusual for a policy not to cover
interruption to a business caused by any and every eventuality. J said that Jelf sold the
policy on the basis that it provided cover for certain classes of claims which werent
ultimately covered. However, I havent seen anything other than Js comments to support
this. I havent been provided with anything to show that J requested cover for something that
wasnt provided, and I think its unlikely that J would have bought a policy which covered
every eventuality. When considering the demands and needs set out in the renewal
document in 2019, Im not persuaded that Jelf provided misleading information about the
policy.
Given that Covid-19 wasnt known about at the time Js policy renewed, I dont think the lack
of cover for Js claim due to Covid-19 meant that Jelf didnt take reasonable steps to ensure
the suitability of its advice. I havent seen anything to indicate that Jelf didnt provide J with
sufficient information about the policy at renewal or that Jelf mis-sold the policy.
Jelf didnt let J know that they only sold policies from one insurer
J said that Jelf didnt make it clear that it only provided cover from one insurer. I have
therefore, looked at what information Jelf provided J about this.
In its letter to J in November 2019 prior to the policy renewal, under the heading Scheme
Wording Jelf said:
In obtaining your quotation we have only approached one insurer, we have
chosen only to work with [name of insurer] for this piece of business as this policy
has been designed to meet your specific requirements offering bespoke features
and benefits.
In setting this out, Im satisfied that Jelf provided J with a clear statement that it only uses
one insurer for this type of policy. Therefore, I dont intend to require Jelf to do anything
further in relation to this.
Jelf didnt recommend that J increase its level of cover, meaning that it was 
underinsured
J believes that Jelf should have recommended that it increase the level of cover under the
policy to £700,000. I have started by looking at the information provided by Jelf at the
renewal of the policy.
In an email on 17 October 2019, Jelf provided J with a summary of the covers and the
amount insured under its existing policy. This set out that loss of income was covered at
£50,000, although Jelf noted that the annual turnover figure was increased to £750,000
within the term of the policy. I havent been provided with a copy of the proposal form that J
completed but there is a follow up email from Jelf on 13 November 2019 which says that,
following the completion of the proposal form, the sum insured for loss of income will be
£150,000 from November 2019. This indicates to me that its likely J asked for a sum insured
of £150,000 for loss of revenue.
Following the agreement for the policy to continue, Jelf provided J with the Continuous
disclosure duty document from the insurer. Next to the heading What is the duty of
disclosure reminder it says:This document reminds you of some of what you told us about your business. If
anything has changed, other than changes in turnover and/or wage roll within the
permitted "Maximum allowable" set out below, it is your duty to tell us as soon as
you can. This will allow us to make sure that your policy terms and conditions are
correct.
The same document says that for Business Interruption J has cover for £150,000. The
Renewal schedule also says that J is covered for up to £150,000 for loss of fees and sets
out inner limits for extensions to the cover. I think these documents made it clear to J that it
had cover for £150,000 and that J needed to make sure the amount was adequate.
J has referred to the courts comments at paragraph 54-63 in Jones v Environcom Limited
(2010) - Neutral Citation Number: [2010] EWHC 759 (Comm) regarding a brokers duty to
advise clients on their duty of disclosure. The relevant legislation at the time of the renewal
was the Insurance Act 2015. I have considered how clear Jelf made Js duty to make a fair
presentation of the risk under this Act.
There is a section within the renewal document which highlights Js duty to make a fair
presentation of the risk under the Insurance Act 2015 and there is a further section about
maintaining adequate cover. The renewal document clearly sets out how the claim
settlement will be calculated in the event of underinsurance.
Through the documents it provided, I think Jelf did enough to make J aware of its duty to
make a fair presentation of the risk and that the sum insured was £150,000.
I do think Jelf could have clarified why the sum insured was £150,000, given that Js turnover
had previously been amended to £750,00. However, even if I decided that Jelf should have
done more to advise J to increase its level of cover, J hasnt told us about any financial loss
which arose from its underinsurance. Therefore, even if I was to uphold this part of Js
complaint, Im not persuaded that Jelf would need to do anything further as Im not aware of
any financial loss that its actions caused J.
Jelf didnt support J in its claim to the insurer
Jelf has provided me with copies of its correspondence with J. I have not referred to every
email in this decision but have picked out what I consider to be the key points. I have
considered this alongside the link J has provided to Jelfs website which provides details on
its Claims Consultancy.
J emailed Jelf on 8 July 2020 to ask about making a claim for its losses caused by the
pandemic. Jelf notified the insurer the same day. Jelf chased the insurer for a response a
few days later and liaised with both the insurer and J to ensure the insurer had the
information it required to consider the claim.
On 21 July 2020, Jelf let J know that the insurer had declined other claims that it had
submitted and that it was now waiting for the outcome of the test case to find out if Js claim
would be payable.
Jelf emailed J on 11 August 2020 with a letter from the insurer which said that it didnt
believe that there was cover for its claim, but that it might be impacted by the FCA test case.
On 15 January 2021, following the Supreme Court judgment, J asked Jelf about its claim.
Jelf responded on 25 January 2021 to say that it had not been informed of the insurers
decision on any claims but that it was pushing the insurer to pay claims where appropriate.On 4 February 2021, the insurer emailed J directly to advise that its claim wasnt covered.
However, on 3 March 2021, J emailed Jelf to say that it had not received a response to its
claim or to its previous correspondence, and to ask Jelf to find it an alternative insurer. Jelf
replied on 4 March 2021 to say that the insurer is its sole provider of this cover so it would be
unable to source alternative insurer. J responded on the same date to say it was unhappy
with Jelfs actions in relation to the claim.
Jelf said that J continued to liaise directly with the insurer about the claim and I can see that
J copied in Jelf to its explanation to the insurer about why it disagreed with the decision the
insurer had made. I can also see from the correspondence provided by Jelf that Jelf 
continued to communicate with both the insurer and J about Js claim and its policy.
When considering this communication between J, Jelf and the insurer, I think that Jelf acted
fairly and reasonably when dealing with Js claim. I say this because Jelf forwarded the claim
to the insurer quickly, kept J updated and promptly let J know when it had received
information from the insurer. Jelf could see that J had communicated its disagreement with
the outcome directly to the insurer but it was for the insurer to respond to this. Jelf did not
believe that the insurers decision was unreasonable.
I understand that J believes that the close relationship between Jelf and the insurer meant
that Jelf didnt try to support Js position in relation to its claim. J said Jelf relied on the
following wording from the insurer to not support Js claim:
"Our understanding is that the Supreme Court have advised that any business
that was mandated to close (and can demonstrate that they suffered a loss as a
direct result of that) are likely to be covered within [the insurers] Policy Wording,
but that any business that was not mandated to close is not covered."
While this wording is not directly quoted from the Supreme Court judgment, I can see that
Jelf had considered the Supreme Court judgment, along with the insurers reasons, when
explaining to J why it wasnt going to interfere in the insurers decision.
Ultimately it is for the insurer to decide which claims are payable under the policy and I dont
believe that Jelf provided either the insurer or J with inaccurate information in relation to Js
claim. I acknowledge Mr Hs strength of feeling about this, but I think Jelf provided J with
sufficient reasoning to explain why it decided not to interfere with the insurers decision.
Overall, I believe that Jelf acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Js claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for but, having considered things very
carefully, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Jelf said it had nothing further to add. 
J said my reasoning was partisan. It said it was not clear from the Scheme wording that Jelf 
only used one insurer and instead it indicated that it had selected the best product from the 
market. J explained the impact that the pandemic had on its business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Js comments and recognise that it disagrees with my provisional 
decision. However, Js comments have not persuaded to depart from my provisional 
findings. The Scheme wording in the renewal documents says:
In obtaining your quotation we have only approached one insurer, we have
chosen only to work with [name of insurer] for this piece of business as this policy
has been designed to meet your specific requirements offering bespoke features
and benefits.
I remain of the view that this sets out that Jelf only works with one insurer for this type of 
policy as it believes that the policy best meets the needs of Js business type. I understand 
J believes that my decision favours Jelf; however, I believe that the outcome that I have 
reached is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances when considering all of the 
information provided by both parties. 
I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman