DRN-2560887
The complaint
Ms B says that a holiday club membership which she bought in 2004 was misrepresented to 
her. Because she used her credit card, issued by MBNA Limited, to pay for the membership, 
she says that MBNA is equally liable for the misrepresentation.   
What happened
In September 2004 Ms B bought joint membership of the Royal Park Albatross Club. She 
paid using her MBNA credit card. Several years later, in 2019, she contacted MBNA to say 
that she thought the membership had been misrepresented to her. Amongst other things, 
she said that she had been told that the management fees would not increase and that she 
would have a wide choice of dates and travel destinations. These statements proved to be 
untrue. Because she had paid for the membership with her credit card, Ms B thought that 
MBNA should meet her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
MBNA declined to look at Ms Bs claim. It said that the claim had arisen in 2004, when Ms B 
bought the membership, and had therefore been made outside the relevant time limit in the 
Limitation Act 1980. 
Ms B did not accept that and referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered it. He took the view that any claim was out of time under the 
Limitation Act and so it followed that MBNA had not treated Ms B unfairly by declining to look 
into her claim. Ms B did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice.
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, where a customer who 
pays a supplier for goods or services with a credit card has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against that supplier, they have a like claim against the credit card 
provider. Financial limits apply, but I dont need to discuss those here.
MBNA says however that the effect of the Limitation Act is that Ms B no longer has a claim 
against the provider of the holiday club membership and therefore no longer has a claim 
against MBNA. The Limitation Act does not apply to complaints brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our time limits are set out in the regulators Handbook, although in 
many cases the same limits will apply. Ms Bs complaint to this service is about MBNAs 
response to her section 75 claim; it is not the misrepresentation claim itself. MBNAs 
response to the section 75 claim was given in 2019, and Ms B told us soon afterwards that 
she was unhappy with that response. Her complaint was therefore referred to the 
ombudsman within our own time limits.
Under the Limitation Act, however, an action (that is, court action) cannot generally be 
brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. Different time 
limits apply for certain types of claim, but I am satisfied that six years is the relevant time 
limit here. Ms Bs cause of action (assuming what she says about what happened is correct) 
accrued no later than the date on which she signed the contract and made payment  that is, 
in September 2004. But it was not until some 15 years later that she made a claim. 
Ms B says that she did not know until some years later that she could bring a claim. Under 
the Limitation Act, however, time starts running in the case of misrepresentation from the 
date of loss  which here means the date of payment. 
Ms B has suggested too that she could bring a claim under sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act for an order declaring the credit agreement unfair to her. Such an order 
can only be made by a court, but in any event the time limit for such a claim runs from the 
date the finance agreement ended. MBNA says that was in 2005. 
For these reasons, I believe that any claim in court would now be brought outside the 
relevant time limits in the Limitation Act and would be extremely unlikely to succeed. I 
believe it was therefore fair of MBNA to decline to look any further into Ms Bs complaint. 
As I have indicated, this services rules prevent us from looking at complaints which are 
made more than a certain time after the event giving rise to the complaint  usually six 
years, but longer where the complainant could not reasonably have known they had cause 
for complaint. As with court time limits under the Limitation Act, one reason for that is that 
evidence becomes less reliable with time and may cease to be available at all. I note that 
MBNA has said it no longer has records of Ms Bs account, so is unable to provide much 
information in this case.
I would also note that Ms Bs contract appears  based on what she has supplied  to have 
been with Explotacin Hotelera PA, SA. But the contract required all payments to be made 
to Hutchinson & Co Trust Company Ltd. It would appear therefore that the credit card 
payment was not made to the supplier of the holiday club membership, but to a separate 
legal entity. If that is correct, the necessary relationship for section 75 to apply may not be 
present in any event. I do not need to make any findings on that point, but it would be 
another reason why it would in my view be reasonable for MBNA to decline to look any 
further into Ms Bs claim. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require MBNA Limited to do anything 
further to resolve Ms Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman