DRN-2729866
The complaint
Mr D complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) will not adjust his annuity 
following the death of his wife.
What happened
In 2008 Mr D met with an adviser from Scottish Widows and following this he chose to take 
out an annuity with a 50% spouses pension attached to it.
Sadly in 2020 Mr Ds wife passed away. Mr D contacted Scottish Widows and thought that 
the part of his pension held for his wife, would now be paid to him. But Scottish Widows 
explained that this wasnt the case.
Scottish Widows explained that once the annuity had been set up the basis couldnt be 
changed and the information he was given at the time explained this. It paid Mr D £100 for a 
delay in answering his complaint but didnt accept it had done anything else incorrectly.
Mr D didnt accept this answer. He believes more shouldve been done at the time to explain 
to him that if his wife was to pre-decease him the annuity would stay the same.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator said it 
had been explained the spouses pension couldnt be altered once the annuity was setup. Mr 
D didnt accept this as he feels more shouldve been done to make it clear to him what would 
happen in this particular scenario.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before Mr D chose to take out the annuity, the accompanying information he received in the 
Key Features document said about the annuity in a section called Risks, Once set up, you 
cant cash in your annuity or normally change the basis of the income, even if your 
circumstances change.
It also said under What happens to my income when I die If youve chosen an income for 
yourwife and they are still alive when you die, well start to pay their income when your 
income stops.
The adviser also wrote in his recommendation letter to Mr D that the Possible 
Disadvantages of this Recommendation: Once set up, you cannot change the basis of your 
pension, or even cash it in, even if your circumstances change.
Mr D says that Scottish Widows didnt specifically say what happens in the scenario that the 
spouse pre-deceases the first annuitant. But using that same logic, it doesnt say that if a 
spouse dies first, the annuity will be re-written to take this into account. It is however made 
clear the terms of the annuity cannot be altered even if circumstances do change. And the 
documentation does set out in what circumstances the spouses pension will be paid. 
Theres nothing within the documentation which wouldve led Mr D to conclude he would 
receive a higher annuity if his wife was to pre-decease him.
It appears to me that Mr D had a misplaced expectation of what the annuity would do, but I 
dont think this means Scottish Widows has done anything wrong. He received the standard 
documentation thats approved by the regulator setting out the annuity product and how it 
works. For Mr Ds information, Im not aware that a product exists which would adjust the 
annuity following a change of circumstances. Spouses pensions are only payable in the 
event of the death of the first annuitant, as was explained in the documentation Mr D 
received (and is standard across the industry). 
I understand Mr Ds point that it could be useful to specifically say what happens if the 
spouse pre-deceases the first annuitant. But at the same time, there are only so many 
scenarios that a key features document can cover. Otherwise the document will become 
extremely lengthy and unwieldy for a customer to follow. And it was explained to Mr D in 
what circumstances the spouses pension would become payable and that no amendments 
could be made after the annuity was set up. 
I understand this decision will be disappointing for Mr D at what must be a difficult time but I 
can see no grounds to say that Scottish Widows has done anything wrong here.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman