DRN-2051292
The complaint
Mr H complains about the performance of his Phoenix Life Limited pension fund. He says 
the information provided by Phoenix Life was misleading, and prevented him from making an 
informed decision to switch funds.
What happened
In 2014 Mr H moved his pension fund from Phoenix Lifes Hong Kong Pension Fund to the 
Century Money Pension Fund. Mr H transferred the fund to a different provider in 2017. 
But he was disappointed with the performance of the fund while it was invested in the 
Century Money Pension Fund. Information provided by Phoenix Life in 2012 suggested a ten 
year growth rate for that fund of 27.9%.  But Mr Hs fund hadnt grown at all. When he 
complained to Phoenix Life, he was told a decision had been taken by Phoenix Life in 2010 
to protect the funds value. This meant there hadnt been any significant movement in value 
since that time.
Mr H considered this information shouldve been disclosed by Phoenix Life before he 
invested. He said its failure to do so had prevented him from making an informed decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider 
Phoenix Life had acted negligently by failing to disclose its investment strategy to Mr H. 
Phoenix Life hadnt provided any advice to Mr H in connection with his investments. The 
investigator noted Mr H had switched funds in 2014 based on information Phoenix Life had 
provided in 2012. Overall, the investigator wasnt persuaded that Phoenix Life had done 
anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Phoenix Life didnt advise Mr H in connection with his investments. But it had to provide 
information that was clear and not misleading, so that he could make an informed decision 
about what to do with his money.
Mr H considers Phoenix Life shouldve told him about the investment decision taken in 
connection with the Century Money Pension Fund in 2010. He says if hed known there was 
unlikely to be any change in the funds value, he wouldve made a different decision about 
how to invest.
Ive noted everything Mr H has said, and Ive also considered the information he was given 
by Phoenix Life.
Mr H asked for fund information from Phoenix Life in 2012. Details for the Century Money 
Pension Fund said:
The Fund invests in a portfolio of sterling deposits and other sterling investments and aims 
for steady long-term capital growth. The Fund is designed to protect gains made in other 
funds especially in the years immediately before drawing benefits.
Percentage change charts were recorded as:
1 year: 0%;  3 years: 0%;  5 years: 6.7%;  10 years: 27.9%.
At the end of the information sheet it said:
It should be noted that past performance is not an indication of future performance and that 
the value of units and any income from them may fall as well as rise.
Mr H didnt invest until 2014. Im not aware that he asked Phoenix Life for updated 
information at that point. The fund information for 2014 generally reflected what Mr H had 
been given in 2012, but the percentage change charts were updated as follows:
1 year: 0%;  3 years: 0%;  5 years: 0.3%;  10 years: 23.4%.
I can see why Mr H might consider Phoenix Lifes 2010 investment decision was important 
information that shouldve been available to him before he switched funds. But on balance, I 
dont consider it was necessary for Phoenix Life to disclose its investment strategy for the 
fund. The strategy wouldve been under constant review by Phoenix Life, and its possible 
the fund couldve been reactivated at any point. So I dont find it wouldve been appropriate 
for Phoenix Life to share the level of detail about its strategy that Mr H considers 
appropriate.
From what Ive seen, I think the information provided in 2012 demonstrated there hadnt 
been any growth in the fund over the previous three years. The 2014 information showed 
there had been minimal growth over the previous five years.
I accept that both information sheets showed growth over the previous ten years. But the 
sheets made clear that past performance was not an indication of what could happen in the 
future. The fund was also described as a long-term investment, but Mr H only invested for 
three years.
Overall, Im satisfied that the information Mr H was given in 2012 (and could have requested 
in 2014) was clear enough to make him aware that there hadnt been any meaningful growth 
in the fund in the five years before he invested. And as Ive already said, Im not persuaded it 
wouldve been reasonable for Phoenix Life to disclose to him its investment strategy for the fund. So I dont consider the business was negligent for failing to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman