DRN-3018545
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Starling Bank Limited hasnt refunded money he sent to a fraudster.
  
What happened
The facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length 
here. In summary:
Mr M was looking online for a vehicle to purchase.
He visited a website which claimed to be selling vehicles at reduced prices due to 
them having been repossessed.
After carrying out some research on the vehicle and the company, he was satisfied 
the sale was genuine.
He agreed to the purchase on the basis that the vehicle would be delivered, and his 
money would be held by a third party until hed had a chance to inspect the vehicle.
Unfortunately, the seller wasnt legitimate and Mr M sent £4,653 to a fraudster.
After the vehicle failed to arrive, he contacted Starling to report the scam.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme Starling has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Starling was of the view that Mr M had ignored an effective warning and didnt have a 
reasonable basis for belief in making the payment  so it declined to provide a refund. In 
summary, it has said:
The price of the vehicle was too good to be true, even taking into account the claim it 
had been repossessed.
Mr M had not seen the vehicle in person and paid upfront rather than paying a 
deposit.  
The email address Mr M used to contact the business didnt match the name of the 
website and there is negative information relating to the email address and business 
online.
Mr M did not receive any paperwork for the vehicle and there was very limited 
communication between him and the seller before the purchase went ahead.
A tailored and specific warning had been provided to Mr M during the payment 
journey.
It also contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money, but no funds remained in 
the recipient account. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Starlings decision. One 
of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator thought the warning Starling provided wasnt effective. They noted that Mr 
M had followed steps similar to those suggested in the warning, so didnt think it was 
unreasonable for him to have proceeded after reading it. Other elements of the warning, they 
argued, were not relevant to his circumstances  he hadnt been put under any pressure to 
make the payment or been discouraged from using a different method of payment. 
They didnt think that Mr M had lacked a reasonable basis for belief either  pointing to the 
sophisticated nature of the car sellers website and plausible reason given for the price of the 
vehicle. They were also satisfied with the checks Mr M had done on both the company and 
the vehicle.  While acknowledging that Mr M could have taken further steps, they didnt think 
this was a reasonable expectation on a layperson. Finally, they thought Mr M would have 
been reassured by having previously purchased a vehicle in a similar way.
The investigator said Starling ought to have reimbursed Mr M at the time he made his claim 
together with interest on the refund at the originating account rate from the date it declined 
his claim to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 28 July 2021 with a deadline for 
responding of 26 August 2021. That deadline has passed and Starling has failed to respond. 
As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
 
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make. 
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Starling to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have.
 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr M ought to have been reimbursed when he 
notified Starling of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his requisite level of care. I believe he did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has 
already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr M to have received a full 
refund at the time.
As the funds came from Mr Ms current account and it is clear that he was going to use the 
money for a specific purpose, Im satisfied hes been deprived of the use of those funds. So, 
Ive decided that Starling should, in addition to providing a refund of the money lost, pay 
interest at 8% simple per annum on the refund from the date it declined his claim under the 
CRM to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr M ought 
reasonably to have been refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Starling Bank Limited to 
pay Mr M:
the money he lost  £4,653  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
8% simple interest per year on that amount (less any tax properly deductible) from 
the date the bank declined Mr Ms claim under the CRM to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman