DRN-3221711
The complaint
Mr B complains that ReAssure UK Services Limited (ReAssure) will not allow him to cash in 
his annuity with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mr B had a personal pension with ReAssure. In late 2013, Mr B enquired about taking his 
benefits early under the policy. ReAssure sent him the relevant forms and Mr B chose to take 
tax-free cash of £541.52 and an annuity of £36.87 paid annually. The first annuity payment was 
made in January 2014.
More recently, Mr B asked ReAssure if he could cash in his annuity. ReAssure said legislation did 
allow annuities valued under £10,000 to be cashed in but this was at its discretion. And whilst in the 
past it on occasion made offers in exceptional circumstances, it had now made a business decision 
to no longer do so. It also said that its costs were worked out when the annuity started based on 
paying it for Mr Bs lifetime. If it were to make an offer now it would have to make a lot of 
assumptions and this could work against Mr B.
Mr B was unhappy with this. Hes explained that the annuity wouldnt even buy him a decent lunch. 
And it would be better for all parties if it was settled in a one-off payment. He thinks this is a 
reasonable suggestion and that ReAssure are being unethical in not agreeing to this and taking this 
down the route of a formal complaint. He no longer has confidence or wishes for them to hold his 
money.
Mr B has also told us that it wasnt explained to him at the time of the sale that he could wait a 
couple of months to cash it in with the new Pension Freedoms. Mr B said he needed the cash at 
the time as he was going through a divorce and that is why he requested to take his benefits when 
he did.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr B chose to take his benefits in 2013, the rules at the time only allowed a payment of a 
pension as a lump sum in certain conditions. Mr Bs pension value was above the limit allowing for 
small pot cash values to be paid and in any event this wasnt available until age 60 (Mr B was 57 at 
the time). There was also legislation that allowed a cash value to be paid if your total pension 
benefits (excluding state pension) was under the triviality limit of £18,000 (this figure was amended 
over the years) but again you had to be over age 60 at the time. These options were included in Mr 
Bs retirement pack sent to him by ReAssure.
Mr B has said to us that he thinks ReAssure may have mis-sold him the annuity as it didnt tell him 
the rules were due to change a few months later. However, Mr B completed his forms to take his 
benefits in late 2013 and the annuity began in January 2014 but the new rules werent announced 
until after this  in the budget in March 2014. So I dont think ReAssure couldve told Mr B about the 
Pension Freedoms when he took his benefits. So my findings have concentrated on whether 
ReAssure has been fair in not allowing him to cash in his annuity.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What that means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Bs position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, 
but only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally 
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for BusinessesPRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause 
issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1. Does ReAssure have discretion to commute Mr Bs annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mr B the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is ReAssure the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If ReAssure is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mr Bs best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose him to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that he relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3. If Reassure was free to grant Mr Bs request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in his best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Reassure to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
ReAssure hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to allow Mr B to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to 
commute his annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mr B to show that he would be worse off if he were 
to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mr Bs told us and the value 
of his annuity, which is paying him just under £40 a year, Im satisfied the annuity is so small that it 
doesnt appear to provide any meaningful income on which he relies. I accept his position that hed 
benefit more from a cash lump sum, even if relatively small. I also note this is what Mr B has said 
he preferred to do at the outset (i.e. he wanted to take his whole pension as a cash lump sum) had 
that been possible at the time. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum value (which hasnt 
been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Mr Bs personal interest to 
encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether ReAssure fairly took into account Mr Bs interests 
when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow Mr B to cash-in his annuity.
ReAssure has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Mr B, 
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult 
to offer that option now without incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to 
the detriment of other customers. It made a number of points about this, for example:
-It cannot consider cases (and offer cash in values) in isolation without considering all its 
qualifying customers. It has a duty to be fair to all its customers.
-Without appropriate processes and checks, it could result in poor customer outcomes 
and cause more harm than good.
-To choose specific customers to make offers also has complications. Deciding who 
should receive an offer and who shouldnt, isnt possible without significant 
groundwork to determine what is fair (and the wider implications of this need to be 
considered on its customers and its business)
-Any decision made on the above, could cause more inconsistency as its difficult to 
determine who would and who wouldnt benefit from cashing in offers.
-There are significant financial implications on it, in offering this widely to customers.
-Its annuities are backed by other financial arrangements and backed by long-term 
and illiquid assets, so cash values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think ReAssures points here are fair ones. I dont think 
ReAssure simply disregarded Mr Bs interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model 
more widely.
It seems to me that ReAssure could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat 
Mr Bs case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business 
the size of ReAssure. However, I acknowledge ReAssures difficulty here. Im not persuaded 
there is reason in Mr Bs case to treat him differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its 
my understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mr B would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the annuity 
isnt useful to him. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt something Mr 
B had a right to. And while ReAssure was free to allow his request, Im satisfied it did have 
other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity product was designed, 
the impact on ReAssures existing systems and processes, the interests of its customers 
more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for ReAssure to decline Mr Bs request. 
It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr B in line with other customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in the future ReAssure changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its possible 
Mr B may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say ReAssure must change its position at 
present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold his complaint.
Mr B was understandably disappointed with my decision and doesnt agree with it but he 
hasnt added any new points following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for ReAssure to decline Mr Bs 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr B in line with other 
customers.
My final decision
Subject to any new evidence, I do not intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman