DRN-3668915
The complaint
Mr B complains about the length of time it took Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited (HLAM) to complete the in-specie transfer of his self invested personal pension 
(SIPP) to another provider. In particular he says that its failure to transfer the cash within the 
plan at the time it said it would, led to the loss of an (identified) investment opportunity. 
What happened
Mr B held a pension plan with HLAM, on an execution-only basis. This meant HLAM didnt
give him any investment advice it simply carried out his instructions.
On 23 April 2020 Mr B sent an instruction to HLAM to transfer the SIPP to a new provider.
This was acknowledged the following day by HLAM. The following is a timeline of events
thereafter that Ive taken from the actual communication between Mr B and HLAM.
On 6 May 2020 Mr B chased up an outstanding instruction from his new provider to HLAM
for a SIPP valuation.
On 11 May 2020 HLAM apologised for the delay which it said had been caused by staff
shortages. It said it would process the transfer as soon as it could and gave him a link to
complete a transfer out application to help expedite matters. HLAM received the form on
13 May 2020 and indicated the transfer might take around six weeks to complete.
On 24 June 2020 HLAM wrote to Mr B to set out its terms for the transfer. It confirmed the
process could take around six weeks or even longer due to the current circumstances
(pandemic).
On 5 October 2020 Mr B questioned why four investments within the SIPP hadnt been 
transferred and wanted the remaining cash balance to be transferred to the new provider.
On 10 October 2020 HLAM confirmed its process for in-specie re registrations and
confirmed that the cash element is usually sent after all the stocks are transferred. But it
said, on this occasion, it would arrange for the cash to be transferred. On 12 October 2020
HLAM said it would transfer the cash within 3-5 working days.
On 5 November 2020 Mr B questioned why the cash hadnt been transferred and in 
response, on 11 November 2020, HLAM confirmed the transfer was nearly complete and 
explained that the delay had been caused by the large number of transfer requests it had 
received as well as the exchange of information required between it and the receiving 
provider regarding the investments held in the SIPP.
On 26 November 2020 Mr B complained that the transfer still hadnt completed and that hed
wanted to buy shares in a company based on the previous completion date of the cash 
element of his transfer of 3-5 working days from 12 October 2020. He said the inability to 
buy shares had cost him an investment gain of over £8,000 and he wanted compensation for 
the lost investment opportunity.
HLAM confirmed that the funds were forwarded to the new provider on 17 December 2020
and that it would respond to his complaint separately.
In January 2020 HLAM responded and apologised for the length of time the transfer had
taken to complete. It said it would consider redress in relation to any investment instructions
that had occurred after the cash was transferred, but which might have been made earlier
had the cash been transferred when HLAM suggested it should have been. But it said that,
regarding the in-specie element of the transfer, as Mr B hadnt been out of the market no
investment loss had been suffered and therefore no redress was payable. It offered £150 for
the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays.
Mr B didnt accept that outcome as he said it made a flawed assumption that he would still
invest in an investment opportunity after such a delay  regardless of the escalation in the
unit price that occurred. He said he wanted HLAM to redress the clear and identifiable
investment opportunity he had lost.
But as HLAM didnt change its view Mr B brought his complaint to us where one of our
investigators looked into the matter. The investigator thought that the amount HLAM had
offered as compensation was sufficient for the distress and inconvenience caused by the
delays, but didnt think HLAM needed to compensate Mr B for the lost investment
opportunity because there was no evidence that hed tried to make the investment either
before or after the transfer completed. However, HLAM had suggested that it had offered 
£250 in its submission to the investigator when it had in fact paid £150.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that, while he understood he hadnt suffered a loss in relation to 
the transfer, he had suffered a loss due to the missed investment opportunity. He made the
following points in asking for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman:
The investigator said that HLAM referred to an expectation of transferring the cash
in 3-5 days  not a guarantee. But he thought that it shouldnt have mentioned a
timeline if it didnt think it could commit to what was a simple transaction within that
time. He thought it was reasonable for any ordinary consumer to assume the transfer
would have occurred in that timescale. 
The reason he didnt purchase the stock while the SIPP was still held with HLAM was
because he expected the cash to be transferred within 3-5 days and also his
experience of the transfer overall suggested to him that it could take many months to
move the stock from HLAM if hed bought it then.
He didnt think it was reasonable to expect him to have purchased the stock after the
cash transfer and then make a claim for redress at that point. He didnt have any
confidence that HLAM would have upheld his complaint and was concerned by the
time it would have taken it to look into any subsequent claim.
He didnt think it was fair to suggest that he hadnt chased HLAM enough during the
process. He pointed to the evidence hed provided, which he thought did evidence
that hed chased HLAM and showed how infrequently he received a response.
In response to the investigators suggestion that, hindsight is a wonderful opportunity
to see what investments people could have made, he said hed never pre warned
HLAM about the investments he was going to make, and it wasnt practical to do so
here when he expected his cash funds to be transferred within 5 working days.
So the complaint was passed to me for a review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld in respect of the 
investment opportunities he said he missed out on, but HLAM should pay Mr B a total of £300 for the raising of his expectations and overall impact of the distress and inconvenience 
he suffered. I made the following points in support of my findings:
HLAM had made Mr B aware that he could continue to trade until the point his 
transfer completed. So I thought Mr B should have mitigated his investment position 
when it became available  regardless of when he expected the transfer to complete. 
I thought Mr B could have at least secured the investment gain he hoped for and then 
complained about any delay in transferring after the event. 
Mr B wasnt specific about the investment opportunity in his emails to HLAM on 
9 October and 5 November 2020.
There wasnt any evidence that Mr B tried to make the trade he said he missed out 
on, or that he was denied the opportunity by HLAM. And he had previously 
(9 October 2020) purchased other shares to the value of £3,700. This supported the 
claim that Mr B was still able to trade freely albeit not directly online.
Mr B hadnt purchased the shares he wanted even after the transfer completed. 
While I understood he thought the opportunity had passed by that time, I would still 
have expected him to demonstrate his intention to buy so that he could have better 
supported his complaint position.
I didnt dispute that Mr B would have invested at some point, but I couldnt say that 
he lost out on investment opportunities because of any delays that occurred with the 
cash transfer.
But I thought that HLAM hadnt treated Mr B fairly in respect of the transfer delays  
particularly the lack of communication after its progression email of 24 June 2020. It 
didnt provide any justification for the lack of further updates until October 2020. And I 
thought the information HLAM did provide in May 2020  referencing slight delays  
might have raised Mr Bs expectations of how long the transfer would take. 
Although HLAM didnt guarantee it would transfer the cash from plan within 3-5 
days, it hasnt provided an explanation of why this part of the transfer took a further 
two months or why it didnt update Mr B. 
In addition to the impact of the delays and lack of updates or explanations, I also took 
into account that Mr B had spent some time chasing HLAM for updates and 
information. So I thought HLAM should pay Mr B £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Responses to the provisional decision
HLAM accepted the provisional decision and said that it would pay Mr B a total of £300. But 
Mr B didnt agree. He made the following points in response:
He accepted that he was still free to trade with HLAM during the transfer. But he said 
he had already ended his relationship with HLAM and had been advised that his cash 
would be transferred in 3-5 working days. So he thought it was reasonable to 
expect that to happen  especially as the transfer of cash is a relatively 
straightforward process - and to be able to complete the purchase of his investment 
when the cash transfer completed.
He completed one trade within his SIPP on 9 October 2020, but this was before he 
was told the transfer of his cash would be completed within the 3 to 5 days timescale. 
In fact it was his first trade since May 2020  and before that he had traded at least 
once or twice each month. That explained the lengths he had gone to in order to try 
not to trade until the transfer completed. 
As an execution only investor he didnt think he needed to tell HLAM about his 
potential investments. But he had signalled his general intention to invest during 
October and November 2020  which was mainly in advance of the forthcoming US presidential election results. He did tell HLAM about the specific lost investment 
opportunity on 26 November 2020, so that it was aware of the loss hed suffered.
He didnt carry out the purchase of the shares in mitigation after the transfer because 
the opportunity was lost as a result of price movement following the transfer delay. 
He didnt think it was appropriate to invest a significant amount into an investment 
that was no longer attractive. He thought his actions were supported by the urgency 
with which he chased the cash transfer from October 2020 onwards in contrast to his 
attitude between April and September 2020  when it wasnt so urgent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, after carefully consideration of Mr Bs response, I see no reason to
depart from my provisional findings. I understand Mr B will be disappointed about the 
outcome as he feels strongly that he should be compensated for his missed investment 
opportunity. But I dont think the evidence supports his claim, although I do think HLAM 
needs to compensate Mr B for the impact of the transfer delays and the distress and 
inconvenience this caused him. So Ill explain my reasons.
Theres no dispute here that HLAM did cause delays to this transfer. And I havent seen 
sufficient explanation for the delays or evidence that HLAM managed the situation with Mr B 
by means of regular communication and updates. Ill confirm what I think HLAM needs to do 
to compensate Mr B for these actions later in the decision. 
But Mr Bs main complaint was that the delay in transferring the cash, when HLAM had told 
him it expected to complete the transfer in 3-5 working days, caused him to miss the 
opportunity to invest in some shares  the buying and selling of which would have brought 
him an investment gain. So Ive begun by looking at the circumstances around that matter. 
Mr Bs missed investment opportunity
Mr B himself told us that he wasnt proactive in chasing up the transfer in 
April to September 2020 as it wasnt urgent during that time. But he says his urgency to get 
the transfer completed is demonstrated by the contact he had with HLAM in October and 
November 2020, and that was because he wanted to invest in a particular stock. 
Mr B says the cash part of the transfer was confirmed in an email from HLAM on 
12 October 2020. Ive been provided with a copy of this email. It stated that, therefore we 
have arranged for the cash balance held within your account to be transferred to your new 
provider. We expect this to be credited to your new account within the next 3-5 working 
days. There was no guarantee contained within the statement, but Mr B says that, as a 
cash transfer is a relatively straightforward process, he was entitled to expect the transfer to 
be completed within this timescale which would have allowed him to take up the investment 
opportunity when it was beneficial to him. 
And I can understand why Mr B wanted to wait for the cash transfer to complete before 
buying the shares he wanted. 
But such a transaction is time critical and regardless of what Mr B expected or even 
hoped to happen, I think he should have consolidated his position and purchased the 
shares regardless of the situation with the transfer. Had Mr B done that he would have 
secured the investment gain he talked about and would then have been able to register a 
complaint about any transfer delay separately without affecting the investment. Mr B says it didnt make sense to buy the shares when he had already demonstrated his 
intention to move away from HLAM and didnt want to buy shares, if possible, until the 
transfer had completed. He said he didnt trust HLAM to transfer any new shares he 
purchased to his new pension provider. He also thought it was reasonable to assume the 
cash transfer would be completed in the timescale set out by HLAM. 
But, while I can understand why Mr B may have adopted that position because of his 
relationship with HLAM, theres simply no evidence to show that he wasnt able to trade on 
his account during this time or that HLAM put up any barriers to him doing so. Therefore I 
would have expected Mr B, if he had identified an investment that he thought was financially 
beneficial, to have acted accordingly to take advantage of that position, if he was allowed to 
do so  which in this case he was. 
I say that because when HLAM set out its transfer process to Mr B in an email dated 
24 June 2020, it confirmed that, once the transfer of your holdings is initiated they may still 
appear in your Hargreaves Lansdown account until we receive confirmation of the transfer. 
You will be unable to sell them online during this time but may still be able to sell at online 
rates using our telephone dealing service. Please contact us for further details. We will send 
a closing statement once the transfer is complete. Any cash balance on your account, 
including sale proceeds if youre transferring any underlying investments as cash, will be 
sent to your new provider once all stock holdings have been transferred. We do this to 
ensure any dividends or income received during the transfer process are included in the 
payment we make to your new provider.  
So Mr B could have continued to trade up to the point his transfer completed, albeit not 
online. But he had the facility to take advantage of the investment opportunity he said he 
became aware of in October/November 2020, and theres no evidence to show that he tried 
to take that opportunity and was denied by HLAM. Indeed, Mr B had previously undertaken a 
share purchase on 9 October 2020. I make that point to show that Mr B was aware that he 
could still trade during the transfer process  although I accept he was reluctant to trade 
after 12 October 2020 because of the suggestion that the cash transfer was imminent. But 
that doesnt mean Mr B couldnt have traded and I think he should have pursued the 
investment opportunity at that time, which would have secured his investment gain and 
allowed him to subsequently register any complaint he may have wished to make about the 
delay in transferring his cash. 
If Mr B had purchased the shares he wanted to buy, even after the transfer completed, it 
would have better supported his claim of a lost investment opportunity. But its difficult to tell 
HLAM that it should compensate Mr B for such a loss when theres no evidence that he 
attempted to buy the shares or that he was stopped from doing so. In his emails to HLAM in 
October and November 2020 Mr B did stress that, I have to make urgent transactions in my 
new SIPP account and, kindly transfer the cash IMMEDIATELY as I continue to lose 
opportunity to invest cash. But he wasnt specific about the investment opportunity nor did 
he ask HLAM if there was a way of being able to purchase the shares while the transfer was 
delayed. 
Mr B said he didnt buy the shares after the transfer completed as the market had changed 
and the opportunity had passed. 
And, as with his reluctance to trade until the cash had been transferred in October 2020, I 
can understand why Mr B didnt buy the shares at this time. But, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I cant reasonably say that Mr B missed his investment opportunity simply because the 
transfer of cash from his SIPP was delayed. I havent been provided with any evidence to 
show that Mr B tried, and failed, to purchase the shares he says he wanted to acquire  so I 
dont think HLAM should have to compensate him for any lost investment opportunity.The cash transfer delay and compensation offer 
As I said above theres no dispute that Mr Bs transfer was delayed, and I havent seen 
sufficient explanation from HLAM regarding the delays or its failure to keep Mr B updated. I 
say that because Mr Bs transfer application was made on 23 April 2020 and acknowledged 
by HLAM shortly after. But in an email from HLAM dated 11 May 2020 it was stated that, 
unfortunately have a slight delay to our processing times. And nine days later another 
email said, I can confirm that we have received your request to transfer your HL SIPP to 
(the new provider) on the 24th April 2020, as well as the transfer form from yourself on the 
13th May 2020. Our standard timescales for stock transfers is up to 6 weeks, however due 
to the current situation this may take slightly longer.
This email set out the transfer processing times that Mr B could expect, but he didnt receive 
another email to confirm the transfer was progressing until 24 June 2020, and no further 
progression was then confirmed until the email of 12 October 2020.
So I think HLAM raised Mr Bs expectations by talking about a slight delay and may take 
slightly longer when the transfer took around eight months in total to complete. And I 
havent been provided with any suitable explanation for the lack of progression updates 
between June and October 2020. 
I appreciate there were other factors going on here, such as the global pandemic  but I 
dont think that excuses HLAM from managing Mr Bs expectations in the face of such 
events. By not positioning that there would be longer than slight delays HLAM ensured that 
Mr Bs subsequent expectation of the transfer of cash being 3-5 working days would be 
adhered to. I think if HLAM had kept Mr B more updated with the situation he would have 
had less expectation and may have taken a different approach to his possible investments. 
But Im also mindful of the situation in October 2020 when HLAM said it expected the cash 
to be transferred to his new account within 3-5 working days. In fact, this transaction took a 
further two months and HLAM has been unable to provide a robust detailed explanation for 
this. I understand HLAMs usual approach is not to transfer cash until all of the in-specie 
assets can be transferred to the new SIPP as well. So Ive taken into account that HLAM 
was acting outside of its normal approach when it said it would transfer the cash. But this still 
raised Mr Bs expectations of when the money would be available in his new SIPP and there 
was no reasonable update to him during the delay.
So I think that, while I dont believe HLAM needs to compensate Mr B for any lost investment 
opportunity, it should compensate him for the impact of raising his expectations about when 
he might be able to trade with his new SIPP provider, failing to update him during the 
transfer and also for the time and effort involved in him chasing HLAM for updates and 
completion information throughout the transfer process. I think that for matters such as these 
a payment of £300 is appropriate.
Putting things right
HLAM should pay Mr B £300 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused by its lack of 
service during the transfer process and also for raising Mr Bs expectations of when his 
funds might be available to trade.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited in part.
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mr B a total of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman