DRN-1804923
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about a current account they have with Clydesdale Bank plc.
What happened
On 24 August 2019, Mr D attempted to make a transaction using Clydesdales online 
banking facility but he wasnt able make the transfer at this time. Mr D says that not being 
able to carry out the transaction caused him a considerable amount of inconvenience. 
Clydesdale responded to Mr Ds complaint and said that its systems were down for some of 
the day on 24 August 2019 following a security update  this meant that none of its 
customers were able to carry out online transactions during the time the system was down. It 
apologised for the inconvenience this caused. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs D. Although they acknowledged that the 
system being down for some of the day was inconvenient, they didnt think that Clydesdale 
needed to pay Mr and Mrs D compensation. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with our investigator 
and felt that Clydesdale were being allowed to get away with providing a poor service.  
Because Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by making Mr and Mrs D aware that it isnt the role of this service to punish 
financial institutions. Mr and Mrs D have suggested that my decision ought to make an 
example of businesses that have experienced IT issues. But I wont be doing this. That isnt 
my role. I can however, look at how the IT issues Clydesdale were experiencing affected Mr 
and Mrs D.
Mr and Mrs D told us they attempted to a make a payment on 24 August 2019 using the 
online app  they couldnt do this because of the IT issues Clydesdale were facing at the 
time. Clydesdale have said that none of its customers could access online banking between 
8.30am and 3.15pm on 24 August 2019 due to a security update.
I can see Mr D got in touch with Clydesdale on 24 August 2019 to make them aware he was 
unable to make the payment. I can see Mr D called at 6pm on that day, so I think Clydesdale 
were having problems for longer than it stated in its final response to Mr and Mrs D. During 
the call, Clydesdale let Mr D know about the problems it had been having with the app. And 
that he should wait another hour and attempt the transaction online again. Mr D called 
Clydesdale again on 29 August 2019 following a text message hed received about the IT 
issues. On this call, Mr D confirmed that hed been able to make the payment. 
Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs D for more information about the payments they were 
trying to make  this is so they could understand the impact the system issues had on them. Mr D responded to say he couldnt remember how many payments he was trying to make or 
when he was able to eventually make the payment. He also hasnt given us any information 
about the inconvenience he experienced as a result of not being able to make the payments 
on 24 August 2019. 
While I appreciate that its frustrating and inconvenient when IT issues occur, I have also 
considered that Mr and Mrs D could have asked to make this payment over the phone. 
Clydesdale have confirmed that this would have been possible. I appreciate it would have 
been helpful if Clydesdale had let Mr D know this during the call, but having listened to the 
call, Mr D didnt suggest or imply that the payment was urgent. 
Based on everything Ive said above, I dont think Mr and Mrs D were overly inconvenienced 
by the problems Clydesdale were having on this day. And so I think the apology that 
Clydesdale has already provided in its final response to Mr and Mrs D is a fair way to settle 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr and Mrs D's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman