DRN-4374320
The complaint
Mrs B and Miss B have complained about the fact Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
failed to properly update Miss Bs licence details under a car insurance policy when she 
passed her driving test.
What happened
Mrs B called Admiral to let them know Miss B had passed her driving test on 6 July 2022. 
She has provided a schedule showing the details for a policy covering the small car Miss B 
drove were updated to show this. It seems that on 7 July 2022 Admiral contacted Mrs B and 
suggested she cancelled this policy as the car was also covered under another policy she 
had with Admiral. She agreed to do this, although she mentioned she didnt think her multi-
car policy (the other policy that would cover the car) started until October 2022. On             
14 September 2022 Mrs B received a letter from the police saying the small car Miss B 
drove wasnt insured. Mrs B phoned Admiral straight away to check this and was told by two 
advisers that it was insured. She then spoke to a third adviser who said it wasnt insured. 
And this adviser said she could pay £24.99 to have the multi-car policy the car was to be 
insured under brought forward. She agreed to this and complained to Admiral. Admiral 
eventually upheld her complaint, refunded the £24.99 and paid a further £275 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
In March 2023 Mrs B telephoned Admiral about the insurance on another car covered under 
the multi-car policy. On this call she was told that DVLA had flagged to Admiral that the 
licence details for Miss B were incorrect on the policy. Mrs B updated the licence details 
again and paid £88.20 to reflect this for the rest of the policy year. Mrs B complained to 
Admiral about their failure to update Miss Bs licence details on 6 April 2023. They replied 
the same day saying that they were unable to uphold the complaint, as they had no record of 
Mrs B telling them about Miss Bs change of licence in July 2022. 
Mrs B and Miss B then asked us to consider their complaint about Admiral the same day and 
provided a complaint form. In the complaint form they only mentioned the issue of the small 
car Miss B drove being uninsured due to Miss B incorrectly being told to cancel the policy for 
it. She said she thought they were entitled to receive up to £1,500 in compensation for the 
distress this had caused them. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs B and Miss Bs complaint about Admirals failure to 
properly update Miss Bs licence details after Mrs B called in July 2022. However, she did 
not consider Mrs B and Miss Bs complaint about the small car becoming uninsured. She 
said that Mrs B must have told Admiral about Miss Bs change of licence in July 2022 as she 
had provided a schedule dated 6 July 2022 showing Miss B as having a full licence, which 
they clearly had not considered. However, she said she felt that because Mrs B and Miss B 
had saved premium in the period where her licence details were wrong, they should not 
receive any compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd experienced as a result 
of Admirals error regarding the licence.
Mrs B wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Our investigator then checked with Mrs B that she did only want an ombudsman to consider 
her and Miss Bs complaint about Admirals failure to update Miss Bs licence details. Mrs B 
confirmed this. And our investigator issued a further view, which was sent to both Mrs B and 
Miss B and Admiral. In this she said Admiral should pay £100 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Mrs B and Miss B had experienced as a result of Miss Bs 
licence details not being updated. She gave both parties until 28 September 2023 to respond 
to this. Neither party has responded, so the investigator has passed the complaint to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that Mrs B must have told Admiral about Miss Bs change of 
licence on 6 July 2022 because they clearly issued a schedule on the policy for the small car 
she drove showing this. I think what must have happened is that these details were not 
moved across to the multi-car policy when Mrs B cancelled the policy for the small car. And 
its a shame Admiral didnt pick this up when Mrs B complained. 
I appreciate this did result in Mrs B saving on premium, as it was more to cover Miss B as a 
full licence holder. And Im also satisfied that if shed had an accident Admiral would have 
provided full cover for her. However, it was frustrating for both Mrs B and Miss B to find out 
an error had occurred and Miss Bs licence details were incorrect on the new multi-car 
policy. So, I agree with our investigator that this warrants a further compensation payment of 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience Mrs B and Miss B experienced. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Mrs B and 
Miss Bs complaint is for Admiral to pay them £100 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs B and Miss Bs complaint and order Admiral to 
pay them £100 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman