DRN-2975110
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (trading as Pet Plan) have declined a claim she 
made on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs O took out a pet insurance policy with Allianz for her dog in May 2019.
 
In September, Mrs O contacted Allianz to let them know her dog had been to the vet due to 
problems with her ears. Allianz explained to Mrs O how she could make a claim and told her 
they would need a full medical history in order to assess it.
 
In October 2019, Mrs O submitted a claim for treatment to her dogs ear.
When looking through Mrs Os dogs medical history, Allianz noticed she had suffered with 
issues including inflammation and wax build up in her ears since 2010. They explained that 
had they known about the previous ear problems when Mrs O was taking out the cover, they 
would have placed an exclusion on the policy for ear disorders and skin allergies. This is 
because they dont provide cover for issues that have arisen before the policy start date.
 
When taking out cover, Allianz said Mrs O had incorrectly answered the question it had 
asked about whether her dog had shown any signs of illness or injury or been unwell either 
now or in the past, regardless of whether she was seen by a vet for the problem. And they 
considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which they said entitled them 
to decline the claim and retrospectively place the exclusion on the policy.
 
Mrs O asked for the claim to be re-assessed as her vet had explained that the condition 
being claimed for wasnt linked to any of the previous ear issues. However, Allianz 
maintained that, even though that was the case, the infection still would have fallen under 
the exclusion placed on the policy for ear disorders. This is because ear issues had 
presented themselves before the policy began.  
Our investigator was of the opinion that Allianz had acted fairly in declining Mrs Os claim. 
He explained that the reason certain questions are asked at application stage is so that an 
insurer can decide what it wants to cover. Theyre then able to offer a level of cover to a 
customer, and its for the customer to decide whether they want to proceed. 
Mrs O disagreed. She said the diagnosis wasnt made in the previous visits and that her vet 
had confirmed the ear condition was different to those experienced in the past. 
Our investigator explained that, even so, Allianz had shown that had Mrs O disclosed the 
information about her dogs ear issues when applying, they would have placed an exclusion 
on the policy relating to ear disorders. This meant cover wouldnt have been provided for 
anything ear related. 
Because of this, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 July 2021, setting out the reasons why I didnt intend to 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. The following is an extract from my provisional findings which 
were set out in the decision:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Allianz thinks Mrs O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she was asked whether her dog had shown any signs of illness or injury or been unwell 
either now or in the past, regardless of whether she was seen by a vet for the problem. At 
that stage, Mrs O disclosed her dogs hysterectomy, but didnt give any information about the 
ear issues. This resulted in no exclusion being applied.
Ive looked at the question that was asked and I think it was a clear one. I believe Mrs O 
should have disclosed details of her dogs ear issues at that time. Having seen Mrs Os 
dogs medical history, there have been a number of occasions since 2010 where shes seen 
the vet for issues relating to her ears. This means Im satisfied Mrs Os misrepresentation 
was a qualifying one.
Allianz have provided their underwriting guide, which explains that the ear disorder exclusion 
would be applied if a pet has experienced issues in the past. 
Allianz have said Mrs Os misrepresentation was careless and I agree. I understand Mrs O 
said she made a mistake in saying no instead of yes when asked about her dogs past. But if 
she had said yes at application stage, Allianz would have applied the exclusion at that stage 
meaning the claim still would have been declined.
As Im satisfied Mrs Os misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Allianz can take in accordance with CIDRA. 
Where a misrepresentation is considered to be careless and the insurer would have entered 
into the contract but under different terms had the consumer provided all the correct 
information, CIDRA says the contract is to be treated as if it was entered into under these 
terms. In this case, as I said, Allianz would have entered into this contract, but with an 
additional exclusion excluding cover for claims relating to ear disorders. 
In light of everything, I think what Allianz have done is fair. They were entitled to assess 
Mrs Os claim for treatment for her dog with the exclusion for any claim relating to ear 
disorders taken into consideration. This means that Im satisfied that theyre acting 
reasonably by not paying the claim.Mrs O responded to my provisional decision and remained unhappy with the outcome. She 
said the vet had diagnosed her dog with a separate ear problem which is now ongoing and 
costly. 
Allianz didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to part from my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
I understand and appreciate Mrs O doesnt agree with my provisional decision, but she 
hasnt given me anything else to consider. Because of this, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. This means I dont 
uphold this complaint for the reasons previously set out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman