DRN-1567683
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
declined a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Theyre also unhappy that they werent able to choose their own solicitor. 
Background
Mr  and Mrs H made a claim on their policy to cover the legal costs of pursuing action 
against a company that installed cavity wall insulation to their home. 
DAS initially declined cover as it said Mr and Mrs H didnt have a contract with the company. 
Mr H provided some further information in response to this. As a consequence, DAS 
accepted the claim under the property section of his policy. It then instructed a firm of 
solicitors from its panel to look at the merits of his claim.
The solicitors carried out a legal assessment of the claim. But they said it didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of being successful because any legal action would be time barred. 
They also said Mr and Mrs H may have a claim under the 25-year warranty they hold for the 
insulation. 
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with the way their claim had been handled and that they were 
left without cover. So they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied DAS had acted in 
accordance with the terms of the policy by instructing a panel firm of solicitors. And it was 
entitled to rely on the legal advice it obtained. 
Mr and Mrs H dont agree. I consider their main points to be as follows:
1. DAS has acted illegally by not allowing them to choose their own solicitor. It 
instructed a firm who were located over 300 miles away;
2. The solicitor failed to identify the grounds for his claim. The company has sent 
representatives to their home to look at remedial works so there is scope for 
resolving the dispute. This wasnt accounted for in the legal advice they received.
As our investigator has been unable to resolve things, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs H requested 28 days to allow them to put forward evidence to 
support their complaint. As this time frame lapsed some time ago and we havent received 
anything further, Ive assumed they have nothing further to add. And having considered 
everything, Im satisfied I have enough information to consider their complaint based on what 
I have.Ive condensed some of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint points in summary form in this decision. If 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored anything  I havent. 
Rather Ive captured the essence of their complaint instead of commenting on each 
individual complaint point.  
Choice of solicitor
Both as a matter of law, and under the terms and conditions of the policy, policyholders 
generally cant choose their own solicitor to act on their behalf until its necessary to issue 
legal proceedings. Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) 
Regulations 1990 says: 
where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or serve the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that 
lawyer (or other person).
The phrase any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to issue court 
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry. Mr and Mrs Hs case never 
reached that stage.
But there are times when we consider its fair and reasonable to allow a policyholder to 
instruct their own choice of solicitor sooner, for example, if theres a conflict of interest which 
means a panel firm of solicitors cant act; or if the matter requires very specialist advice.
Mr H and Mrs Hs case doesnt appear to require specialist advice, such that the panel firm 
wasnt suitably qualified to provide. And their concerns about them appear to relate to both 
the fact that they were located over 300 miles away and their belief that a policyholder has 
the right to choose their own solicitor at all times. In respect of the latter, Ive made clear that 
they do not as well as the circumstances in which we might depart from this approach. 
Those dont apply in this case. 
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the location of the panel firm on a 
standalone basis. Im not persuaded that the location of the panel solicitor would cause 
detriment to their claim. Communications with solicitors can generally be conducted through 
email and by telephone. Theres nothing here that makes me think that the location of the 
panel firm prevented this from happening effectively or that it would cause Mr and Mrs H a 
particular problem if proceedings were issued. In addition its common for solicitors to litigate 
claims in different parts of the country. In Mr and Mrs Hs case, the panel firm were able to 
provide a detailed analysis of the merits of their claim based on the documents Mr and Mrs 
H had provided. So I dont think their location posed them or Mr and Mrs H a particular 
problem in their ability to look at things. 
Declined claim
It is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies that any intended claim has a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mr and Mrs Hs policy is no exception. It says, for civil 
cases, the policyholder will recover losses or damages or obtain any other legal remedy 
DAS have agreed to, as assessed by DAS preferred law firm.
We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer 
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurer to either.Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as 
they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question their 
reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. 
DAS did this. The panel firms advice was that Mr Hs claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of succeeding because his claim was outside the time limits set in law. 
From what Ive seen, the panel firm had experience in dealing with cases of this nature. Mr 
and Mrs H have referred to a Paralegal being appointed to deal with their case. Whilst thats 
correct, I can see the advice they were provided with was given by a Solicitor. So I think the 
person advising them was suitably qualified. Because of this, DAS was generally entitled to 
rely on the advice and Im not aware of any reason why it should not have done so in this 
case.
Mr and Mrs H feel the panel firms advice was flawed and that the matter ought to have been 
referred to a firm of solicitors of their choosing to consider. I dont think DAS had to do this. 
The advice is fully reasoned and theres nothing in it that I would consider obviously wrong 
from a lay persons perspective. If Mr and Mrs H want to challenge the advice, they need to 
provide DAS with a conflicting legal opinion from someone of equal standing and at their 
own cost. If such an opinion is supportive of their position then, as DAS has said, it will 
consider their claim again. In the absence of that, I dont think DAS needs to do anything 
further.
Mr and Mrs H have also expressed concerns about the panel firm and the quality of their 
advice. Its not within my remit to consider these complaints. Solicitors have their own 
regulator and complaints process. If Mr and Mrs H remain unhappy with the advice provided, 
they can address this directly with the panel firm or through the Legal Ombudsman.
Finally, I understand DAS has made an offer of £100 compensation for some delays caused 
in replying to correspondence from Mr and Mrs H. I havent seen anything that makes me 
think these delays caused Mr and Mrs H any particular problems with their underlying case 
or otherwise, so I wont be asking DAS to do anything more. I understand DAS intended to 
send Mr H a cheque for this amount. If Mr and Mrs H havent received this and wish to 
accept the offer, they should contact DAS directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman