DRN-1571623
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) debited his account with a number of card 
transactions which he says he neither made nor authorised and are unwillingly to refund him.
What happened
Between 18 March 2019 and 4 May 2019, eight disputed transactions totalling £6,803, were 
made using Mr Hs debit card details. They were all to a business providing cleaning 
services, who Ill refer to as T. All of the transactions were made without the presence of a 
physical card; they were manually keyed payments.
Around this period, there were also several cash deposits and bank transfers made by both 
third-parties and Mr H himself; into his account, totalling £6,970.
Mr H contacted Lloyds on 29 May 2019 disputing all the payments made to T, asking it for a 
refund. He said he didnt make these payments or recognise the business. The card was still 
in Mr Hs possession.
Mr H lives with his wife and young child. He confirmed to both Lloyds and this service that he 
has not shared his card details; his card is kept with him - in his wallet and no-one else had 
access to it. He also said he doesnt use the debit card often as his main account is held with 
another bank and the purpose of this account was just to hold savings for his childs 
impending birthday. 
He couldnt explain how anyone else could know the details for his card. 
When asked about the cash deposits and third-party bank transfers into his account, Mr H 
said, these were from individuals he knew, that owed him money. Mr H doesnt dispute any 
of these credits.  
After questioning Mr H, Lloyds Fraud Team declined his claim - concluding Mr H had 
authorised the disputed transactions. It delivered the outcome to Mr H over the phone.  
Unhappy with the outcome of his fraud claim, Mr H complained to Lloyds disagreeing with its 
decision to not refund him the disputed transaction amounts. He also complained about the 
service provided by Lloyds; specifically, that, when he called or visited a branch, they were 
unable to provide him with any information about his fraud claim. He was also unhappy that 
he wasnt provided with a written letter detailing everything Lloyds had considered and its 
reasoning for declining his claim. 
Lloyds investigated Mr Hs complaint and wrote to him with its final response on 
19 June 2019. It maintained its Fraud Teams decision not to refund Mr H was correct for the 
following reasons; 
The activity and technical evidence didnt match Mr Hs version of events, casting 
doubt over the credibility of his testimony.It didnt agree that it was possible for Mr H to only check the credits received into his 
account when he logged onto his online banking without noticing the balance on his 
account was much lower than it ought to have been. 
The information provided to authenticate the payments and held by T matched the 
information held by the bank.
It cannot identify a point of compromise for Mr Hs debit card and personal details, 
nor has Mr H been able to say how these payments couldve happened if they 
werent made by him.
It concluded that it didnt believe there was any benefit in a fraudster transacting in 
this way.
 
Lloyds also addressed Mr Hs concerns about the service hed received. It clarified the 
reason the Fraud Team didnt write to him was because it shared the outcome with him over 
the phone. It also explained the reason staff members in branch and its telephony teams 
were unable to give Mr H further information relating to his fraud claim is because they do 
not have access to the Fraud Teams systems  only certain staff can access this 
information.  
Mr H, unhappy with the response from Lloyds, referred the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into his complaint. He didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be 
upheld. He thought on balance, it was more likely than not that Mr H had authorised the 
transactions in question. 
Mr H doesnt accept this and maintains he didnt make or authorise the disputed 
transactions. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr H. But Id like to take some time to explain how 
Ive reached my decision. The investigator wrote detailed views that set out in full the facts, 
the transactions, the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr H and Lloyds have read 
the investigators views, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis 
of my decision. Id like to assure Mr H Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its 
not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The regulation that is relevant when considering Mr Hs complaint is the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017). Under the PSRs 2017 banks are required to refund 
the amount of an unauthorised transaction - where its customer didnt make or 
authorise payment(s) themselves. There are some exceptions in the regulations, but these 
dont apply in Mr Hs circumstances. So, when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in 
rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer 
made the payment(s) themselves or allowed them to be made. If were satisfied that they 
did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
So, I need to come to a view about whether or not I think Mr H authorised the payment. To 
help me decide what has happened Ive looked at the evidence of the payments, as well as 
what both Mr H and Lloyds have told us.Having done so, I think the following matters are relevant to how Ive considered 
this complaint:
Firstly, having reviewed Lloyds technical evidence Im satisfied, that Mr Hs card 
details, including the security code from the reverse of the card (CVV) and billing 
address were used to make and authenticate the disputed transactions. 
Its possible that whoever made the payments to T couldve done so, without the 
physical card and I accept its generally easier to obtain card details than to 
physically obtain an actual card. But with that being said, in Mr Hs particular 
circumstances the opportunities were limited for someone to obtain these details as 
Mr H has said the card was always in his possession, no-one had access to it and he 
hardly used it to make purchases, as the account was used to hold savings.
Ive carefully looked at Mr Hs statements and the pattern of activity on his account. 
Ive also considered what Mr H has said and even the possibility his card details 
couldve been compromised. However, on balance, Im still not persuaded it wouldve 
been possible for someone other than Mr H to have authorised the payments as; 
The credits into Mr Hs account have been paid in by different sources and are 
broadly in line with the disputed transactions. 
No balance enquires were carried out before a payment was made to T.
There were no declined payments to T due to insufficient funds. 
 
So, it raises the question of how some unknown third-party wouldve known not only Mr Hs 
card details and billing address, but also this level of detail about the incoming payments and 
balance of the account before making each payment over a period of roughly two months. 
Mr H has told Lloyds and, in his submissions to this service, confirmed hed only 
logged on to check if a payment he was expecting had been received. Lloyds online 
audit report shows that Mr H logged on to his online banking on 3 May 2019. By this 
point Mr H had received credits into the account over the last two months totalling 
£6,970 yet the available account balance on 3 May 2019 was showing as £1,043, of 
which £1,000 was the payment he was expecting. I cant see how it wouldve been 
possible for Mr H to have not noticed his account balance was over £4,000 less than 
expected  especially as he was saving for a specific purpose. Mr H has given a 
number of reasons; such as he only checked his credits, his phone screen was 
damaged, credit and debits dont always update and that he was only logged in for a 
brief time to explain why he didnt notice the disputed payments. Lloyds have 
explained it wouldnt have been possible to check the credits without first seeing the 
account balance and when checking the credit payment on 3 May 2019, Mr H 
wouldve seen the previous entry  which was a payment to T for £1,125. So, I dont 
find Mr Hs explanation plausible that he didnt notice the disputed transactions and I 
can only conclude that he knew payments had left his account. Yet, he didnt contact 
Lloyds until the 29 May 2019.
The transactions took place over two months and do not match what Id typically 
expect to see from fraudulent use. Usually youd expect a fraudster to make the most 
of having access to the card details in the shortest amount of time to maximise their 
gain before the fraud is identified and the card blocked.
 
So, after careful consideration and looking at everything, overall, Im not persuaded that the 
most likely explanation is that a third-party, with Mr Hs card details carried out the 
transactions without his consent. I think on balance it more likely than not that Mr H made or 
otherwise authorised the payments he disputes. I realise thats a difficult message to give and indeed receive. But I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly in holding Mr H liable for these 
transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman