DRN-3446170
The complaint
Mr W complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited held him liable for a loan he didnt 
take out and that a County Court Judgment (CCJ) was registered in his name for it.
What happened
In 2010, a loan was taken out with Provident in Mr Ws name. Eventually, in 2015, this loan 
was sold to a third party debt collection agent. In 2017, a CCJ was obtained against Mr W in 
relation to this loan.
In 2021, Mr W got in touch with Provident to say that he didnt take this loan out. He said that 
the impact of the CCJ had prevented him from starting up a new business and had a serious 
impact on his health and financial situation. Provident responded that it agreed that the loan 
was taken out fraudulently. It arranged for any outstanding balances to be written off and for 
any references to the account to be removed, including those with credit reference agencies.
Mr W complained about this further and said that Provident hadnt taken into account the 
impact this situation had on him  in particular the CCJ. Provident responded to say that it 
didnt apply the CCJ itself and so wasnt responsible for this, but did offer £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Mr W remained unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into this and said that given the fact that Provident had already accepted that Mr W 
hadnt applied for the loan and had taken actions to address this, all she could look at was 
whether the compensation offered was fair.
One of our investigators noted that Mr W had adverse credit information and another CCJ 
recorded in his name, all of which would have seriously affected his ability to access credit 
with other lenders. Given this, they felt that even if this loan with Provident wasnt taken out, 
it wouldnt have made a significant difference to his ability to gain credit.
Another of our investigators also looked at this and said that Provident only had access to 
very limited data because of the time that has passed since the loan was taken out. So there 
isnt enough information to say that Provident shouldnt ever have approved the loan here. 
Instead, Provident accepted Mr Ws account of the situation and took steps based on that. 
So she didnt feel she could ask Provident to do any more here.
Mr W disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This loan was taken out in 2010 and so Provident has confirmed that the information it holds 
in relation to this is limited, given the time thats passed. Thats not unusual, where the 
relevant rules and law around data say that a business shouldnt hold onto information like 
this indefinitely. That means that Provident has been limited in what it could look at when 
investigating Mr Ws complaint and it means this service is equally limited too.
But that doesnt mean that Provident should have ignored what Mr Ws said just because the 
loan was taken out so long ago. I was pleased to see that it didnt. It took on board what he 
said about the loan, looked at the records it did have and made a decision that Mr W didnt 
take this out. Then it agreed to take the appropriate actions to make sure Mr W wasnt 
impacted by the loan any further. Thats a pragmatic and fair way to deal with this situation.
Provident also offered Mr W £100 for the trouble and upset caused by this situation, but 
Mr W doesnt think this reflects the impact this had on him. So I need to decide whether 
Provident needs to do any more to resolve this complaint. But thats made difficult here 
because when looking at this impartially and being fair to both sides, there isnt enough 
information here for me to be sure that Provident acted incorrectly or unfairly at the point the 
loan was approved.
That said, Provident accepts that this loan wasnt taken out by Mr M. But even if I accept this 
as the starting position, it doesnt automatically mean that more compensation would be fair. 
We have to look at what the impact of a situation was in the individual circumstances of a 
complaint. Here, as our investigator has noted, Mr W has had a significant amount of 
adverse data recorded against him over the time since this loan was approved. The nature 
of this data means that he would always more likely than not have struggled to get further 
credit from lenders.
So, while Ive considered all Mr W has said about his situation during this time  I cant say 
that Provident needs to do any more here. Even if I were to conclude that Provident acted 
wrongly when approving the loan  the information recorded about this wouldnt have been 
likely to have added to the problems Mr W would have faced in getting credit  given what 
was already recorded about him. So taking everything into account here  Im satisfied that 
£100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman