DRN-3787501
The complaint
Miss Y is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund all the money shes lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Miss Y has fallen victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. She reacted to an advert on a 
popular social media platform showing television presenters from a well-known programme 
saying that it was simple to make money by investing in bitcoin. Shortly afterwards, she was 
contacted by an investment broker (the broker) from a company Ill refer to as B. The 
broker helped her open a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange account (the exchange 
account). She transferred £92,500 from her Lloyds account to the exchange account over 
12 transactions between 3 March and 9 April 2020. Then, using remote access technology 
to connect to her computer, the broker moved Miss Ys money from the exchange account to 
an account he said she held with B.
Miss Y had access to an online portal through which she could see that her investment with 
B was performing well, and shed made a lot of money. The broker told her that, in order to 
release the profit, she would need to pay a tax bill. She used her Lloyds credit card to pay 
£4,169.32 (plus £303.79 in associated fees) on 9 April 2020. But she never received any 
money from B, and she has not heard from the broker since.
Miss Y realised shed been the victim of a scam and raised a fraud claim with Lloyds. Shes 
said:
She is an inexperienced investor.
The broker was charming, convincing and knowledgeable. He assured her that, if she 
invested with him, he could make her enough profit to be financially secure. She 
believed that he was genuine. He promised her the world and she was really taken in 
by him. She was physically and mentally unwell at the time, and desperate to be able 
to afford her own place. It never occurred to her that she was being scammed.
She saw that B had a professional looking webpage, and she had access to an 
online account with B.
The broker warned her that Lloyds would make it difficult for her to move money to 
the exchange account because banks dont want people to take money out of their 
bank account to invest in cryptocurrency. He told her what to say should she need to 
speak to Lloyds about what she was doing.
Lloyds declined to reimburse Miss Y. It said:
The first scam payment from Miss Ys Lloyds account to the exchange account 
triggered its fraud detection systems and a member of staff spoke to her over the 
telephone. They warned her about fraud and told her that the bank probably wouldnt 
be able to recover her money if she was being defrauded. She confirmed that she 
had set the exchange account up and wasnt instructed to do so by anyone else. She 
also said that she was the only one with access to the exchange account. Based on 
the information Miss Y gave the bank, there was no need to provide any further 
warnings and the exchange account became a trusted beneficiary.
The credit card department ran a security check on the credit payments Miss Y made 
as part of this scam. Miss Y advised the bank that she was paying a tax bill on 
money she had made and her financial advisor, who she trusted and had been 
dealing with for about a year, had told her to make the payments.
Miss Y didnt take sufficient steps to ensure she was dealing with a genuine 
investment firm. The first result on an internet search for B shows that it is operating 
a scam.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that Lloyds provided sufficient fraud warnings and did enough to 
satisfy itself that Miss Y wasnt at risk of financial harm when it spoke to her after the first 
scam payment from her Lloyds account to the exchange account was instructed. So, she 
didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to require the bank to reimburse any scam 
payments transferred out of the bank account. But she didnt think the bank did enough 
when it spoke to Miss Y about the credit card payments she was making. So, she 
recommended that Lloyds:
Refund all the losses on Miss Ys credit card account.
Re-work the credit card account to remove all interest and charges applied as a 
result of the scam payments.
Pay 8% simple interest on any payments Miss Y has made towards the scam 
payments and/or associated interest and charges.
Lloyds accepted our investigators recommendations, but Miss Y did not. So, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 10 September 2022. Ill set out my findings below.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
It's common ground that the payments from Miss Ys Lloyds account to the exchange 
account were authorised  either by her or the broker acting on her behalf  under the 
Payment Services Regulations. Lloyds had an obligation to follow Miss Ys payment 
instructions, and Miss Y is presumed liable for her loss in the first instance. But thats not the 
end of the story. There are circumstances in which a bank should make additional checks 
before processing a payment, or in some cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm. I consider that Lloyds 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before making a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Cryptocurrency scams often involve money passing through more than one account and 
they were not uncommon at the time. I think Lloyds wouldve been aware of this. The 
Financial Conduct Authority and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency 
scams in mid-2018. By March/April 2020 when the scam payments were made, I think 
Lloyds ought to have had time to digest these warnings and put mechanisms in place to 
detect and prevent this type of fraud. So, although Miss Ys losses may not have 
predominantly arisen from the initial transfers, Im satisfied they ought to have been within 
the contemplation of, and foreseeable to, Lloyds. And Im satisfied that Lloyds can be held 
responsible for the loss if it could have prevented the scam.
The first scam payment from Miss Ys Lloyds account to the exchange account triggered the 
banks fraud detection systems, and Lloyds contacted Miss Y in order to satisfy itself that 
she wasnt at risk of financial harm.
By March/April 2020, I think Lloyds ought to have had a good enough understanding of how 
cryptocurrency scams work  including that the customer often moves money to an account 
in their own name before it is moved on to a fraudster  to have been able to identify the risk 
of harm from fraud. With its industry knowledge, I think Lloyds ought to have asked Miss Y 
some probing questions and given her information regarding the prevalence and typical 
features of cryptocurrency scams before processing the £5,000 payment.
Ive listened to a recording of the telephone conversation between Miss Y and Lloyds. Below 
is a summary of what was said:
Lloyds informed Miss Y that it probably wouldnt be able to recover any money lost to 
a scam once it had left her account. It told her that fraudsters are contacting its 
customers with convincing stories, that they are very believable and that they often 
tell customers not to discuss whats happening with the bank. It told her about safe 
account scams, and Miss Y confirmed that wasnt the situation here.
The bank asked Miss Y where she got the sort code and account number of the 
receiving account from. Miss Y answered that it is her cryptocurrency exchange 
account and she volunteered the information that no one had helped her open the 
exchange account and she had done it completely on her own.
Lloyds asked Miss Y if anyone had asked her to make the payment. She said no. It 
then asked if this was the only telephone call she was currently on. She answered 
yes and then volunteered the information that no one had access to her phone or PC.
The bank asked Miss Y to confirm that she had not been told to lie to it, and she did.
I acknowledge that Miss Y was coached by the broker, and the answers she gave to the 
banks questions werent true. But its not unusual for fraudsters to coach their victims and I 
think the bank wouldve been aware of this  so I consider that it shouldve been on the 
lookout for red flags in the answers she gave, and it should have asked probing questions 
to get into the details of the payment rather than taking Miss Ys answers at face value.On two occasions, Miss Y volunteered information that I think ought to have raised the 
banks suspicions that shed been given a cover story. Without being asked questions that 
would lead to these responses, she told the bank that she had opened the exchange 
account without any help and that no one had access to her phone or PC. I think thats 
strange information for a customer who has not been coached to volunteer. 
The bank asked Miss Y some basic fraud questions (mostly related to irrelevant safe 
account scams) but I dont think the conversation shouldve stopped there. Lloyds couldve 
asked more questions in order to determine whether the typical features of cryptocurrency 
scams were present here. But it didnt even ask Miss Y what the payment was for. If Lloyds 
had got into the detail of the payment, how Miss Y came across the broker and so on, then I 
think its likely it wouldve become apparent that a scam was underway, and Miss Y wouldnt 
have made the payment, or any subsequent scam payments and/or Lloyds couldve declined 
to make the payment or any other payments to the same destination.
Of course, if Lloyds had uncovered that Miss Y was investing in cryptocurrency, it could also 
have imparted information during its telephone call about the risks of financial harm. For 
example, it could have given Miss Y relevant information about cryptocurrency investment 
scams  including that scam investment companies often contact their victims after theyve 
reacted to an advert involving celebrities on social media platforms, help them set-up 
genuine third-party accounts for payments to pass through and request remote access to 
their computers. If it had done so, even though Miss Y was being coached and told to lie to 
the bank, I think its likely she wouldve realised something was amiss, and the scammers 
spell wouldve been broken.
I acknowledge that the main perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I dont think the 
bank did enough to protect Miss Y from financial harm. I think it shouldve asked more 
relevant and probing questions during its telephone call with her, particularly in light of the 
somewhat strange information she volunteered. And it shouldve asked what the payment 
was for then imparted relevant information about cryptocurrency scams. If this had 
happened, I dont think its likely that Miss Y would have wanted to proceed with the payment 
and, if she did, Lloyds could have declined to make the payment. Either way, I think the 
scam wouldve been prevented and Miss Y wouldnt have lost any money. So, Im satisfied 
that its fair for Lloyds to reimburse her full financial loss.
Ive considered whether Miss Y should bear some responsibility for her loss by way of 
contributory negligence but, overall, I dont think there was any contributory negligence on 
this occasion. Of course, there is more Miss Y couldve done with the benefit of hindsight to 
protect herself, and some of the things the broker did were questionable (such as asking for 
remote access to Miss Ys computer). But Im satisfied that the brokers demeanour and 
knowledge, the professional website Miss Y says she saw and her access to an online 
account with B showing investment growth was enough to satisfy a reasonable person  
especially one that was feeling vulnerable at the time, had no prior investment experience 
and had not been educated about the relevant fraud by their bank.
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive provisionally decided that Lloyds should:
Reimburse the £92,500 transferred from Miss Ys Lloyds account to the exchange 
account and pay interest at the originating account rate/s from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement.
Refund the payments made to the scam from Miss Ys credit card account, and the 
associated fees.
Re-work Miss Ys credit card account so that all interest and charges caused by the scam payments and associated fees are refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on any payments Miss Y has made towards the 
credit card account balance arising from the scam payments and associated fees 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss Y didnt respond to my provisional decision. Lloyds offered to reimburse 50% of the 
money transferred from Miss Ys Lloyds account to the exchange account (totalling 
£46,250), as well as comply with all of the other redress instructions I set out in my 
provisional decision. In summary, the bank said:
Miss Y failed to carry out sufficient due diligence to verify she was dealing with a 
legitimate person or company.
Miss Y hasnt provided any evidence in support of her belief that B was a 
professional organisation  such as emails or screenshots  and B no longer has an 
online presence so it is impossible to ascertain what Miss Y wouldve seen at the 
time.
Miss Y didnt receive any investment documents, and this shouldve been a red flag.
Miss Y allowed the broker remote access to her computer, which is questionable. 
Miss Y allowed the broker access to her financial accounts. A professional would 
never request this and it shouldve given Miss Y reasonable cause for concern.
Miss Y shouldve been concerned that she was being coached on what to say to the 
bank by the broker.
Unless Miss Y told the bank that she was buying cryptocurrency, there was no 
reason for it to provide warnings about cryptocurrency scams.
It accepts that it couldve asked Miss Y more probing questions when it spoke to her 
about the first payment instructed from her Lloyds account to the exchange account, 
and this is why its offered to reimburse 50% of the money she transferred between 
the accounts.
During its telephone conversation with Miss Y, the bank explained that fraudsters 
may provide convincing stories and tell customers to not to discuss matters with their 
bank. It also asked her if anyone had told her not to tell the bank she was making the 
payment. She said no. Lloyds asked Miss Y to confirm that she hadnt been told to lie 
to the bank or move the money, and she did. Lloyds believes that the warnings it 
provided were relevant to cryptocurrency scams and our investigator agreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has agreed with the redress instructions I set out in my provisional decision in relation 
to Miss Ys credit card account, so I see no reason to comment further in this respect.
Lloyds has offered to accept partial responsibility for the payments Miss Y made from her Lloyds account to the exchange account (the faster payments) on the basis that it couldve 
done more to protect her from financial harm when it spoke to her on the telephone after the 
first payment was instructed. As the banks already agreed to bear some liability for Miss Ys 
loss because it didnt do enough to prevent the scam, I wont explore the arguments its 
made in responding to my provisional decision about the conversation that took place 
between Miss Y and Lloyds. I can see Lloyds feels that there was contributory negligence on 
Miss Ys part, so she should be held equally responsible for the loss of the faster payments, 
and I will concentrate my findings on this.
I note that Lloyds hasnt provided any new evidence or information for me to consider. I 
thought about all of the points Lloyds has raised when reaching my provisional conclusion 
that there was no contributory negligence on this occasion. I accept that: 
Theres more Miss Y couldve done to protect herself with the benefit of hindsight  
for example, she couldve asked for investment documentation.
Miss Y hasnt provided any visual evidence of what she saw about B when she 
researched it prior to deciding to invest  but this isnt unusual. Victims of 
investment scams dont often have screenshots of their research (probably because 
they arent aware theyre falling victim to a scam and theyll need to have such 
evidence to provide in any future fraud claim). Scam investment companies often do 
have a seemingly professional online presence and Miss Y has been consistent 
throughout her testimony, so I have no reason to doubt what shes said.
Some of the things the broker did were questionable  such as coaching Miss Y on 
what to say to Lloyds if it asked what she was doing, requesting remote access to her 
computer and making transactions on her financial accounts for her. But I can see 
that Miss Y was provided with plausible explanations for these things.
But Miss Y has said that: 
She has no prior investment experience.
She was really taken in by the fraudster, who was charming, convincing and 
knowledgeable, and promised her the world when she was in a vulnerable state. 
B had a professional website.
She had access to an online account showing investment growth  I find this to be 
plausible as victims of cryptocurrency investment scams often have access to this 
type of fake account showing investment performance and, again, Miss Ys testimony 
has been consistent and persuasive throughout.
And I cant ignore that Lloyds did not properly educate Miss Y about the relevant fraud either 
and, if it had have done so, she would most likely have been in a position to better protect 
herself from financial harm.
Overall, although I acknowledge that there were some red flags Miss Y couldve spotted if 
she was a more experienced investor and/or had better knowledge about cryptocurrency 
investment scams, and there was more she mightve done to protect herself, Im still 
satisfied that there wasnt any contributory negligence on this occasion. Considering 
everything, Im persuaded that the brokers demeanour and knowledge, Bs seemingly 
professional website and, perhaps most convincingly, Miss Ys access to an online account 
showing investment growth was enough to satisfy a reasonable person that all was as it 
seemed.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds 
Bank PLC to:
Reimburse the £92,500 transferred from Miss Ys Lloyds account to the exchange 
account and pay interest at the originating account rate/s from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement.
Refund the payments made to the scam from Miss Ys credit card account, and the 
associated fees.
Re-work Miss Ys credit card account so that all interest and charges caused by the 
scam payments and associated fees are refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on any payments Miss Y has made towards the 
credit card account balance arising from the scam payments and associated fees 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman