DRN-1139244
 
The complaint
Mrs K says Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold her a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her credit card repayments. 
What happened 
Mrs K applied for a credit card over the internet in 2004. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy to cover her credit card payments. The policy cost £0.74 per £100 of the balance on 
Mrs Ks credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs K was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld because she thought Mrs K 
wouldve understood she had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit. 
Mrs K disagrees. She says she didnt agree to take the policy and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ks complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
The PPI was applied for online when Mrs K applied for a credit card. Canada Square have 
given us a copy of the screen shots of the type of application form Mrs K wouldve seen and 
completed when she applied for her credit card. 
I can see that theres a separate section on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
this section it briefly explains what the cost of PPI is along with what it protects against. 
Directly under this it gives the option to either select:
Yes, I want to protect my repayments; 
or 
No, I understand it is my responsibility to keep up my repayments should I fall ill or 
lose my job. 
Canada Square say Mrs K wouldnt have been able to continue with the application without 
selecting one of these options. I think because Mrs K had PPI its likely she selected to take 
PPI. If Mrs K didnt want to take out PPI she couldve selected not to take the cover. So I think its likely Mrs K understood she had a choice in taking out the PPI and chose to take it 
because she wanted the cover.
Because the PPI was taken out over the internet I dont think Canada Square advised Mrs K 
to take PPI. What this means is that Canada Square didnt recommend PPI to Mrs K, they 
just gave her information about PPI and it was up to her to decide if the cover was suitable. 
This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
Canada Square say that enough information wouldve been given to allow Mrs K to make an 
informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. I can see the cost of the policy is 
shown on the application form. But I cant say whether all the proper information needed was 
given. That being said even if Canada Square did give all the information Mrs K needed to 
make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy 
because at the time of sale:
 
She was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
Mrs K says she was entitled to sick pay which wouldve helped her make her 
repayments if she couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work 
benefits and for potentially longer. So I cant see how knowing this information 
wouldve put her off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs K and she could 
cancel the policy if she no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs K on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint against Canada Square 
Operations Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman