DRN-4172669
The complaint
A company, that I will refer to as D, has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly 
declined its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr P, a director of D, has complained on Ds behalf with the help of Mrs S. For ease of 
reading, I will refer to D throughout. 
What happened
D held business interruption insurance with Aviva. D claimed on its policy for losses incurred 
as a result of Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Aviva declined Ds claim. It said the policy primarily covered losses caused by damage to 
property and Covid-19 had not caused damage to property. It added that the policy covered 
losses caused by a specified list of diseases, but Covid-19 was not one of the diseases 
listed in the policy. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, D brought its complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator considered Ds complaint but did not recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Avivas decision was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, as well as relevant 
case law. 
D asked for an Ombudsmans decision as it understood from the Supreme Court judgment in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case and 
information from the FCA that it had grounds to claim for its losses. It said there were 
clauses in the policy such as loss of attraction, act of terrorism, prevention of access and 
property damage which dont provide enough clarity and give D legal grounds for claiming. D 
said that there had been a loss of attraction as the UK Government required everyone to 
stay at home and there was not a relevant exclusion in the policy.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ds business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ds claim. I have considered the entirety of Ds policy but will comment on 
the parts which might appear most relevant, or which D has referred to. 
Damage
The core business interruption cover under Ds policy provides cover for loss of income 
resulting from Damage to Property Insured Used by You at the Premises. The policy 
defines damage as Loss, destruction or damage. 
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to Ds property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage 
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of 
potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Ds premises. 
However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt 
recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive amount of 
SARS-CoV-2 on Ds property. And the presence of any particular virus doesnt automatically 
amount to damage. I havent seen anything to indicate that Ds losses were caused by 
damage to its property, so this section of the policy doesnt provide cover. 
Prevention of access
This extension covers Damage to property in the vicinity of The Premises by any cause 
included under the Property Damage Section which hinders or prevents access to The 
Premises.
For this to provide cover, there would need to be loss, destruction or damage to property in 
the vicinity of Ds premises which hinders or prevents access to its premises. I have not seen 
anything to indicate that there was loss, destruction or damage to property in the vicinity of 
D's premises which hindered or prevented access. Therefore, it was reasonable for Aviva to 
not provide cover under this clause. 
Loss of attraction
This extension covers Damage to property in the vicinity of The Premises by any cause 
insured under the Property Damage Section, which causes a loss of custom to The Business 
directly due to a reduction in Customers visiting the area.
As with the extension above, this clause requires there to be loss, destruction or damage to 
property in the vicinity of Ds premises. So while there may have been a reduction of 
customers to the area, I do not believe that the Government restrictions requiring people to 
stay at home mean that there was loss, destruction or damage to property in the vicinity of 
Ds premises. Therefore, this clause does not provide cover for Ds claim. 
Disease
Ds policy also covers losses due to the occurrence of a specified list of diseases. Covid-19 
is not one of the diseases listed in the policy. 
Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was drafted, I 
wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the 
market that provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which 
covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ds 
policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there 
is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all 
and any new diseases and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Ds claim.Terrorism
The Asset and Revenue section of Ds policy provides cover for:
All losses arising under any of the Heads of Cover as a result of damage to or the 
destruction of Property occurring during the Period of Insurance in the Territory, the 
proximate cause of which is an Act of Terrorism.
D has provided the definition of an Act of Terrorism from the Terrorism Act. However, as Ds 
policy has its own definition, that is the one which needs to be used in this case. 
The policy defines An Act of Terrorism as:
Acts of persons acting on behalf of, or in connection with, any organisation which 
carries out activities directed towards the overthrowing or influencing, by force or 
violence, of HM Government in the United Kingdom or any other government de 
jure or de facto.
I do not think that Covid-19 or the Governments response to the pandemic could reasonably 
be considered an act directed towards overthrowing or influencing the Government by force 
or violence. Moreover, there would still need to be damage or destruction to property as a 
result of act of terrorism. And I have not seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused 
damage or destruction to property, for the reasons set out in the damage section of my 
findings. Therefore, this does not provide cover for Ds claim. 
D has referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case. However, whether a 
claim should be paid or not still depends on the specific wording within a policy. The 
judgment did not impact Ds claim as there was nothing in the judgment which indicated that 
claims under similar clauses to those within Ds policy should be paid. I have also not seen 
anything from the FCA to which persuades me that it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline 
Ds claim. 
D has also referred to there not being anything in the policy to exclude its claim. However, 
an exclusion would only be considered if there was a clause in the policy which provided 
cover. As none of the clauses above provide cover, it does not make a difference that there 
is not a relevant exclusion. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome D was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I do not uphold this complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman