DRN-3014024
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with the service that she received from Nationwide Building Society when 
she visited branch.  
What happened
Mrs A visited a Nationwide branch with her daughter to deposit some cheques into her 
account and to update her grand-daughters passbook. Because of social distancing 
restrictions put into place because of the Covid-19 pandemic, it was explained to Mrs A that 
she wouldnt be allowed into branch because the nature of her transactions was deemed to 
be non-essential. It was also explained to Mrs A that she could use an ATM machine 
available to her outside the branch to deposit the cheques into her account.
Mrs A didnt want to use the ATM machine, so a member of Nationwide staff took the 
cheques from Mrs A and went into branch themselves to deposit them and to update Mrs As 
grand-daughters passbook. However, when the staff member returned it became evident 
that they had deposited the cheques into Mrs As grand-daughters account, and not into Mrs 
As account. The staff member then went back into branch and revered the cheque 
transactions which were subsequently correctly paid into Mrs As account.
Mrs A wasnt happy with what had taken place, including that she hadnt been allowed into 
branch, and she complained to a branch manager present at the time who apologised to Mrs 
A and made a reference to £100 compensation. A formal complaint was raised on Mrs As 
behalf. However, when Nationwide issued its complaint response letter it stated that it was 
satisfied that the matter had been dealt with correctly and didnt honour the offer of £100 
compensation that the branch manager had made.
Mrs A wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, especially as her daughter had also 
complained about the poor service shed received that day, and that Nationwide had 
acknowledged the poor service and that compensation had been promised by the branch 
manager to her daughter and had made a payment of £150 compensation to her daughter 
because of this. So, Mrs A referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it had been reasonable for 
Nationwide to refuse Mrs A entry into branch given the non-essential nature of Mrs As 
requirements. However, they did feel that the service that Nationwide provided to Mrs A 
wasnt to the standard that should be expected, including that Nationwide had paid Mrs As 
cheques into the incorrect bank account initially. Our investigator also felt that Nationwide 
had acknowledged this point when it had dealt with Mrs As daughters complaint and paid 
£150 compensation to her because of it. 
Because of this, our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mrs As 
favour and that Nationwide should pay the same £150 compensation to Mrs A that had been 
paid to Mrs As daughter.
Nationwide didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mrs A would have preferred to deposit cheques into her account in 
branch rather than being asked to do so outside of branch, via an ATM machine. However, 
Nationwide have confirmed that they were implementing measures to restrict the number of 
people entering its branches as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. And, given the 
seriousness of the pandemic and the requirements placed on businesses such as 
Nationwide to mitigate against potential viral transmission, I dont feel that I can censure 
Nationwide in any way for implementing such restrictions.
Im also satisfied that the nature of Mrs As banking requirements at that time  the 
depositing of cheques and the updating of her grand-daughters passbook  were such that 
it was reasonable for Nationwide to have considered them as being non-essential such that 
Mrs A wasnt allowed entry into branch. And this is especially the case given that the 
possibility for Mrs A to have deposited the cheques into her account via an ATM machine 
outside of branch existed.
However, Mrs A is also unhappy with the general standard of service that she received from 
Nationwide staff that day, for which she contends she was promised compensation for by a 
branch manager present, and which Nationwide appear to have acknowledged in their 
response to Mrs As daughters complaint, to whom they have paid compensation of £150.
Nationwide have stated that the complaint raised by Mrs As daughter was a joint complaint 
undertaken in the names of Mrs As daughter and Mrs A, with Mrs As daughter as the 
primary complainant. As such, Nationwide contend that the compensation of £150 that 
theyve already paid to Mrs As daughter takes account of the poor service that both Mrs A 
and her daughter are acknowledged to have received. 
I can appreciate Nationwides position here, to a degree. But its notable that the complaint 
response that Mrs A and her daughter have provided that was issued to Mrs As daughter 
doesnt reference Mrs A, but rather is addressed solely to Mrs As daughter. And its also the 
case that the compensation amount that was paid was paid solely to Mrs As daughter, and 
wasnt split between Mrs A and her daughter, as would be expected by this service if it were 
the case that the complaint had been considered as a joint complaint.
As such, given that Im satisfied that Nationwide have acknowledged, in their response to 
Mrs As daughters complaint, that a poor standard of service was received which merits 
compensation, and given that I dont accept that the compensation already paid to Mrs As 
daughter should be considered as being partially for Mrs A, I find it difficult to conclude 
anything other than Nationwide should pay the same amount of compensation to Mrs A that 
it has already paid to Mrs As daughter, and I will be upholding this complaint on that basis. 
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Nationwide were wanting here, but I trust 
that it will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that 
I have.
Putting things right
Nationwide must make a payment of £150 to Mrs A.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman