DRN-3184472
The complaint
Mr B complains that Ferrari Financial Services GmbH (FFS) refused to let him reject a faulty 
car.
What happened
Our investigator has set out the background previously and I trust both parties will 
understand that what follows is a brief summary and concentrates on what I consider to be 
the key issues. However, I would make it clear I have read all the material submitted by both 
parties.
In November 2018 Mr B acquired a second-hand car costing £348,850 funded by a deposit 
of £35,000 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement. It was bought unseen and was 
subject to pre-delivery check. The car was just under a year old and had covered 5,067 
miles. I believe it had been a demonstrator and had been used on track days.
He had an issue with a warning light coming on and a window squeaking. The car was taken 
back and repaired in late 2018, though I have noted that Mr B has said the window 
continued to make a noise. I also note the job card refers to protector coming off, especially 
on carbon fibre areas.
Mr B says he was in contact with the dealer in March and April 2019 regarding the paint 
protection film (PPF). In November repairs to the paintwork were carried out under warranty 
by an authorised agent I will call R. Mr B had the car detailed and R noticed a mark on the 
left rear quarter panel.
In December Mr B contacted the dealer again as R had identified there was water in the 
headlights and some issues with the paintwork.
The dealer said the headlight issue was unavoidable and was present in identical models. It 
agreed to a repair the affected panel only and the paint would need to be faded in. Mr B 
expressed his concern that the repair would not be satisfactory, but he was assured the 
company due to carry out the work was fully approved by the manufacturer. Mr B said he 
was unhappy with the car and he expected it to be free from faults.
In due course the work was carried out and inspected by Mr B and he remained unhappy. 
The estimate for the work which cost nearly £5,000 referenced corrosion. Mr B asked the
RAC to carry out an independent report. This identified the following:
 Dry line and lacquer flaking to base of right A pillar parallel to windscreen rubber.
 Dry paint line evident to left rear quarter panel door shut area.
 Minor dent to left wheel arch top area.
 Dry paint line to rear edge of roof.
 Dry paint line to tailgate aperture shuts (on quarter panels).
 Bubbles to left stone foil.
 Small dirt nibs to various repainted areas.
 Minor ripple line to left rear C pillar.
 Dry paint line to roof edge above left rear side window.
 Rear FERRARI badge displays water marks".
 Uneven/rough surface to paintwork behind both side rear window scoops.
 Dry paint line to base of left rear quarter panel (below stone foil)
 Slight crater (pit) to roof paintwork (photo) and various other areas.
It did note that some of the defects are more pronounced than others, in fact some can only 
be seen if you cast a critical eye over the refinished areas.
FFS refused Mr Bs request to reject the car and so he brought his complaint to this service. 
It was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld.
A second RAC inspection was carried out in March 2021 and the same inspector listed the 
following issues:
1/ Dry line and lacquer flaking to base of right A pillar parallel to windscreen
rubber.
2/ Dry paint line evident to left rear quarter panel door shut area.
3/ Minor dent to left wheel arch top area.
4/ Dry paint line to rear edge of roof.
5/ Dry paint line to tailgate aperture shuts (on quarter panels).
6/ Bubbles to left stone foil.
7/ Dry paint line to roof edge above left rear side window.
8/ Rear FERRARI badge displays marks".
9/ Uneven/rough surface to paintwork behind both side rear window scoops.
10/ Dry paint line to base of left rear quarter panel (below stone foil)
11/ Slight crater (pit) to roof paintwork and various other areas.
12/ Left rear wheel arch liner poorly fitting.
13/ Surface scratches to tailgate.
14/ Bubbles to right stone foil.15/ Swirl marks and surface scratches to roof.
16/ Pitting evident on right quarter panel by fuel filler flap.
17/ Creators evident in paintwork on tailgate.
Our investigator concluded that the repairs had not been carried out to a satisfactory quality 
and he was concerned that the corrosion issue had not be addressed. He concluded it most 
likely would have been present at the point of sale.
FFS didnt agree and submitted a third independent report and a witness statement from the 
manager of the body shop which carried out the repair work. He said that the car wasnt 
mass produced but had been hand painted and there are variations in the level of finish. If a 
customer wants a higher level of finish this can usually be addressed by polishing or 
detailing. He said that such work was not undertaken to remedy a problem, but to improve 
the finish. He also said that when he inspected the car he could not say what had caused the 
blemish but had mentioned corrosion as a possible cause.
He said that they had carried out a more extensive repair that they would normally as a 
result of Mr B not being happy with their initial recommendation. During the work no 
evidence of corrosion was found. He said that it could have been caused by one of many 
events.
He also said that as a result of the RAC report they had carried out remedial polishing. He 
also reviewed each of the points raised by the inspector and suggested, in the main, that he 
had set unrealistic standards and the issues were barely visible. He also felt most of the 
issues could be addressed by polishing. He also noted that R states on its website that some 
of these issues can be caused by washing given the sensitivity of the paint.
The independent assessor also noted that a hand painted car will have variations of finish. 
He also went through the RAC inspectors list and concluded that the faults were minor if 
visible at all and could be easily remedied.
I issued a provisional decision as follows: 
I explained I had given a great deal of thought to this complaint and I had reached a different 
conclusion to that of our investigator.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it.
FFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I said that not only did I have to be satisfied that the car is not fit for purpose, but that it 
wasnt so at the point of sale.
I noted this complaint was slightly unusual in that it is dealing with a specialist car. It is not a 
mass production model and I didnt believe there was the same degree of uniformity one 
might find in other cars. I believed this make has its own characteristics. However, it was an 
expensive car and one would expect the quality to be acceptable, but not concours 
condition.
The car was second-hand and had been used a demonstrator and for track days so a 
degree of wear and tear was to be expected. It had not covered many miles, but cars of this 
type generally dont and I know many owners use them sparingly. I gathered Mr B has other 
car(s) and he too made limited use of it in the first year when it was available to him.
Mr B was concerned that the car has suffered from corrosion and it had been suggested this 
model can show signs of it. The only reference to corrosion by those who have worked on or 
inspected the car was in one estimate. The body shop manager had confirmed that no 
corrosion was found and I thought it reasonable to conclude there was no corrosion. I 
believed our investigator took the view that corrosion was a key reason for upholding the 
complaint.
I noted the conclusion of the third inspector which states:
The car is of a satisfactory standard. It is a good example of a car of its make and model. 
For the reason mentioned above (i.e. Ferraris are hand painted), I would be confident that if I 
closely examined any Ferrari I would be able to find some type of issue with the paintwork. It 
is the nature of the type of vehicle.
In summary, the repair itself has been carried out to a satisfactory standard, but the finishing 
could be improved (mainly through polishing and possibly a lacquer). However, the same 
could be said for almost all Ferraris.
I also noted that was a prized acquisition by Mr B for his collection and he did not identify 
those faults when he took delivery of the car that have been listed by the RAC inspector. If 
one accepts what I consider to be the very high standards set by the RAC inspector then 
there are some matters that should be addressed, but I didnt think they merited rejection. I 
thought the bar had been set at concours level and the car was not sold as such. It had been 
used by Mr B and not stored as an investment.
I concluded that in the circumstances the offer by FFS to carry out the work suggested by 
the third inspector was a fair and reasonable response. I was also aware that Mr B was 
without his car for a period of time some of which was due to him not wishing to have it back. 
I believed he should be compensated for the time he was deprived of the car which was 
beyond his control. I considered a refund of the monthly payments for the relevant period to 
be the best resolution of the problem.
Mr B didnt agree and made further submissions which I have summarised briefly below. 
He agreed the car was pre-owned and while not in concours condition he had a right to expect the highest standards. He wasnt aware the car had been used for track days when 
he acquired it but didnt consider that had any bearing on the defects he has complaining 
about.
He was concerned that in my provisional decision that I had concentrated on whether the car 
was fit for purpose and thus may not have given due weight to appearance and finish.
He said that on delivery the car had a number of faults, namely water ingress to the 
headlights, a squealing window, an engine light fault, floor mats not aligning properly and the 
delamination of the protective film. He said that the response by FFS that the water ingress 
was a common unavoidable problem wasnt satisfactory and indicated a defect which wasnt 
due to wear and tear. He added that he had another identical model which didnt suffer from 
these problems.
He said the passenger rear quarter panel damage wasnt due to wear and tear. He believed 
this was supported by the report from the inspector appointed by FFS. He felt FFSs offer to 
carry out warranty repairs showed it recognised the defect.
He said the smart repair was all that was offered and he didnt think that would produce a 
satisfactory outcome especially on three stage red paintwork. He said that three independent 
experts had concluded the paintwork repair was unsatisfactory. The car was left with visible 
paint edges where the bodyshop had tried to fade the paint into the original.
Given the type of car it was to be expected that all work would be of an excellent standard. 
The low standard repair was the cause of the problem and he didnt think the application of a 
lacquer would make any difference. The defect would simply be covered by the lacquer. He 
also thought the fact FFS had agreed to commission remedial work on two occasions 
showed it was aware of the failed repair.
He submitted photographs of the car and said these alone wouild be enough to deter any 
prospective purchaser going through with a purchase.
FFS also responded and said the test was whether the car was satisfactory for a 
secondhand car which had covered 5,000 miles and its value or rarity were irrelevant. It 
would not be reasonable to expect the car to be in showroom condition. The car had been 
sold at a greater price than the standard model due to its specification and it had not been 
sold at a premium.
It said that there was no evidence that the mark was present at the point of sale. It said that 
two of the inspection reports suggested it was due to wear and tear. It argued that the other 
issues were minor and were either addressed under warranty or not dealt with as being 
down to wear and tear e.g. stone chips. It also noted that none of these issues were 
referenced in the RAC reports. It mentioned the water ingress and said this is sometimes 
caused by condensation which disappears when driven. 
It said that the repair had not been a smart repair and more extensive work was carried out 
ant Mr Bs insistence. It considered the three reports and the witness statement of the 
bodyshop manager supported its arguments. It added that the paintwork was Rosso 70th 
anniversary red which was two layer paint.
Finally, it said that Mr B hadnt sought to reject the car until he had driven it for 2,600 miles 
and having had it for some 15 months. The mark had been removed and the only issue was 
whether repair was satisfactory. It thought that any defects would only be visible on close 
scrutiny and could be addressed by detailing and/or polishing.   Mr B submitted that he had, in effect been without the car from the day the car was in 
possession of a warranty issue or when the bodywork claim was begun until he present day. 
He felt he had been unable to use it while the dispute was ongoing. He said he had moved 
the car to another garage and this had given an estimate of £12525.02 to carry out work on 
the paint, but there would need to be a compromise in some areas.  
FFS gave details of the periods when it considered Mr B was without the car and the 
reasons. It also noted he had had a payment holiday between April and June 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank both parties for their detailed submissions. This remains a contentious 
matter and I must make it clear that my remit is to consider if the car was fit for purpose at 
the point of sale. Any issues which arose after that, unless they were inherent faults are not 
matters that would allow me to recommend rejection or further compensation. I would add 
for the avoidance of doubt the phrase fit for purpose is an abbreviation and covers the 
various elements set out in consumer law as listed above. It encompasses appearance and 
finish etc.
Mr B has used the car and I consider it likely that some of the issues he has raised in the 
course of this complaint have occurred subsequent to his purchase. I am mindful that the car 
was sold as pre owned and so it is not unreasonable for it to have suffered minor 
imperfections. If it had been new I would have considered it to have been in perfect 
condition. However, it wasnt and the mark only came to light in December 2019. Mr B had 
acquired the car in November 2018. 
The delay in spotting the mark and other issues has made it difficult to establish whether it 
was present at the point of sale. I think it reasonable to presume Mr B is a car enthusiast and 
even though he bought the car unseen he would have reason to inspect it on arrival. 
However, it seems the issue came to light when Mr B had some detailing done and the 
factory fitted film covering being repaired under warranty. 
I have taken note of the photographs submitted by Mr B, but I dont consider these are 
helpful in establishing the condition of the car when it was acquired by him. 
I have re-read the submissions of both parties and the three reports and the witness 
statement. I am satisfied that the cause of the mark was not corrosion and it may or may not 
have been present at the point of sale. I think the corrosion point was dealt with in the 
witness statement. However, I am inclined to accept Mr Bs assertion that more likely than 
not that it was.
As for the repair which was carried out this was more detailed than Ferrari thought 
necessary, but it yielded to Mr Bs request.  The manager of the bodyshop has said that 
under a critical eye one may be able to see some imperfections, but these can be addressed 
by detailing or polishing. That is also the view of the third expert.
Quite simply I am not persuaded that the evidence provided and especially the expert report 
leads to the conclusion that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale. Nothing I have 
seen since my provisional decision has caused me to change my view. 
I remain of the opinion that the offer by FFS to carry out the repair work as set out in the 
engineers report dated 23 May 2021 is fair. I know Mr B has queried this, but I expect the work to be undertaken by an appropriate Ferrari specialist unless the parties agree 
otherwise. 
On the matter of further compensation in terms of a rebate of monthly payments I do not 
consider Mr Bs suggestion to be reasonable. For much of the time he was without the car 
he had chosen not to accept it back. I appreciate he didnt want it to suffer further marks 
which may have undermined his case, but he had already put forward his arguments and 
had supplied evidence and reports so I cannot say that he was denied access to his car.
I am also aware that his circumstances are somewhat different in that he was not reliant on 
this car for getting around. He has not made use of it and has accepted it be held elsewhere 
for a quite a period of time.
I am not persuaded by FFSs arguments that only the interest should be refunded or that I 
take into account the payment holiday. As I understand it the holiday simply means 
payments have been deferred and not written off.  I have looked at Mr B timeline and that 
provide by FFS and have concluded that it should forgo two months worth of payments. 
Putting things right
FFS should compensate Mr B as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Ferrari Financial Services 
GmbH to pay for the work as recommended by the expert in his report dated 23 May 2021. It 
should also refund two months payments to Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman