DRN-1819061
The complaint
Mr C complains that RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) unfairly declined his claim for repatriation 
and repair of his vehicle under his European Breakdown Policy.
What happened
On 5 November 2019, Mr Cs car broke down while he was abroad, so he called RAC for 
assistance under his breakdown policy. The car couldnt be fixed at the roadside, so RAC 
took it to a local garage. 
RAC provided Mr C with a hire car to use for the remainder of his trip  he was returning to 
the UK the following day. And it noted that pending the garages diagnosis, Mr C wanted the 
car to be repatriated (returned to the UK). Later that day, RAC was informed verbally by the 
garage that the cylinder head gasket needed replaced and that the total cost of works would 
be €3865.82. 
RAC started the authorisation process for repatriation. But on 7 November 2019 it was noted 
the claim for this would likely be declined as the repair costs were greater than the market 
value of Mr Cs car  meaning that it was beyond economical repair  and as such, 
repatriation costs werent covered under the policy. But RAC said its process requires it to 
have a written quote from the garage before it could make a final decision on this. 
RAC notified Mr C of the decline on 14 November 2019. It explained that as well as 
repatriation and repair costs, Mr C would also be responsible for storage costs for each day 
the car was in the garage. Mr C was unhappy with RACs decision and disputed the costs he 
had to pay. But RAC said that its terms were clear on this matter and maintained its position 
on the claim. So Mr C paid the necessary fees and made his own arrangements to transport 
his car home. 
Mr C brought a complaint to this service. He said it took nine days for RAC to provide him 
with the costs to repair his vehicle  which increased the storage fees he had to pay. And 
that the cost to repair his vehicle was unreasonably inflated by the overseas garage. He said 
that had the repair been carried out by a UK garage, it wouldve been far cheaper and less 
than the market value of his car, meaning his repatriation wouldve been covered under his 
policy. So he wanted RAC to cover the costs he incurred to repair his vehicle and to get it 
home. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said the terms and 
conditions of the policy were clear and that RAC had acted fairly, and in line with these 
terms, by declining to cover the costs Mr C was claiming for. Mr C disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it and Ill explain why.
In bringing this complaint Mr Cs made a number of points, and Ive carefully considered 
what hes said. But in this decision, Ill focus on what I see as being the key outstanding 
issues following our investigators assessment of his complaint, to decide if RAC have dealt 
with Mr C in a fair and reasonable way.
Mr C took out a single trip European Breakdown policy with RAC which covered him for;
services in the event your vehicle breaks down or is in a road traffic collision whist you are 
using the vehicle on a journey from the UK to Europe. But like most policies of this nature, 
the cover is subject to certain limitations. 
Section 3 of Mr Cs policy booklet, titled Roadside assistance in Europe, sets out what is 
and isnt covered under this part of the policy. And under a heading titled not covered it 
says:
1. Repair costs if the vehicle repair costs will be more than its market value;
2.The cost of any parts.
Please note: By claiming under this section you are authorising us and the garage to 
undertake fault diagnosis.
And under section 6 of Mr Cs policy booklet titled  Getting your vehicle home it says:
Not Covered
1. Any costs:
a. if your vehicle is beyond economical repair
Beyond economical repair is defined in the policy as where the total cost required to repair 
the vehicle, including any taxes, is greater than the market value of the vehicle.
Its not in dispute that the repair quote from the overseas garage of €3865.82 (approximately 
£3500), was greater than the market value of Mr Cs car. But Mr C argues that RACs 
application of the policy terms are unreasonable because he says the repairs wouldve cost 
a lot less than the value of his car if they were carried out by a reputable garage in the UK. 
Hes spoken to UK garages that he says have confirmed this and he says hes since carried 
out the repairs himself for a few hundred pounds. 
While I understand the point Mr C is making, I dont think it makes a difference in the 
circumstances this case. This is because, even if Mr C couldve gotten a cheaper quote from 
a UK garage, the fact is his vehicle wasnt in the UK when the breakdown happened. And 
Mr Cs policy states that If the vehicle has broken down in Europe, the total cost required to 
repair the vehicle will be based on the estimate for repair provided by the service provider in 
the applicable country in Europe where the breakdown has occurred.
RAC recovered Mr Cs vehicle to a local garage in the country he was visiting and relied on 
the repair quote this company gave it to make its decision on vehicle repatriation  which is 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. The repair quote was greater than the 
market value of Mr Cs vehicle, so Im satisfied the vehicle was beyond economical repair in 
the circumstances of this case. And as such, RAC fairly declined to cover Mr Cs repair and 
repatriation costs. So I wont be asking RAC to do anything further in relation to this. 
Mr C has also complained about the storage fee he was charged, and he wants RAC to 
cover the costs he paid for this at an amount of €514.08. But the terms clearly state that 
RAC wont cover any costs if the vehicle is deemed beyond economic repair. So RAC isnt 
obligated to cover Mr Cs storage costs in this instance.But Ive also thought about whats fair and reasonable. And I can see there was a delay 
between RAC deciding that Mr Cs vehicle was likely to be beyond economic repair, to when 
it had written confirmation from the overseas garage to confirm this. This increased the 
amount of time Mr C had to wait. So I can understand why hes raised this.
But from RACs case notes, I can see it was chasing the overseas garage for the required 
information on a regular basis. And on receipt, it notified Mr C of its decision the following 
day. I dont think its unreasonable that RAC wanted written confirmation before 
communicating its decision. This is because it provided RAC with a breakdown of costs and 
so would likely have given it an opportunity for better analysis, before making a decision  
which seems fair. So I wont be directing RAC to cover Mr Cs storage costs.
Ive considered all of Mr Cs comments, including what hes said about it being unfair that 
RACs decision was based on only one repair quote. But the terms of the policy Mr C took 
out with RAC, allow it to make its decision in this way. And as set out above, these terms 
clearly explain how repair costs will be calculated if the vehicle breaks down in Europe. RAC 
has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, so these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman