DRN-3628235
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr D was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. In August 2017 Mr D met with D C Financial and it 
completed a financial planning questionnaire with him to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. In summary this recorded that Mr D was 27 years old; he was 
working full-time; he was single but soon to be married; he owned his own home with an 
outstanding mortgage of around £115,000 that had 16 years remaining; and he had cash 
savings of around £14,000. D C Financial also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude 
to risk, which it deemed to be moderate to aggressive  a score of 7 on a scale of 1 to 10.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr D returned his Time to Choose leaflet indicating he wanted to opt into the BSPS2.
Mr D contacted D C Financial again and in January 2018 it advised Mr D to transfer his 
BSPS benefits into a personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in investment 
funds, which D C Financial deemed matched Mr Ds attitude to risk. In summary the 
suitability report said the reasons for the recommendation were to allow Mr D to control his 
pension fund; to provide income flexibility in retirement with the option of accessing a lump 
sum at age 57 but not immediately take an income; to provide the option of accessing 
benefits before 65 without penalty; to alleviate concerns about the BSPS2 not starting and to 
avoid the risk of entering the PPF; and to provide flexible death benefits. 
Mr Ds pension transfer duly completed and around £122,000 was received into the new 
personal pension.
Mr D complained to D C Financial in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice.
D C Financial didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. Overall it said the recommendation was 
suitable. In summary it said Mr D wanted to transfer because he had a lack of trust in the 
BSPS and he was concerned about entering the PPF. It said the transfer met Mr Ds 
objectives of wanting to be able to retire early, take control of his pension and allow his 
family to benefit from his pension upon his death. It said neither the BSPS2 nor the PPF 
would have met Mr Ds objectives. It said all the options were discussed with Mr D and the 
risk were explained and understood. It said it believed the critical yields were achievable at 
the time given Mr Ds attitude to risk. And this has been borne out by a gross return of 9.61% 
per year to date, so Mr D has improved his pension benefits. Finally it said it believes Mr D 
had made up his mind to transfer and if it hadnt provided the transfer advice he wouldve 
kept trying other financial advisers until he found one who would help him.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr D asked this service to consider his complaint. And an 
investigator upheld it and said D C Financial should pay Mr D compensation. In summary 
they said they didnt think the advice was suitable. They said given the growth rate required 
to match Mr Ds scheme benefits, he was unlikely to match them let alone exceed them as a 
result of transferring. They also didnt think there were other compelling reasons for the 
transfer  for example they said there was nothing to show Mr D needed flexibility given his 
age or that his retirement plans were known. They said there was nothing to indicate Mr D 
needed additional lump sum death benefits and in any event this shouldnt have been 
prioritised over providing Mr D with security in retirement. They also said that Mr Ds 
concerns about the scheme could have been allayed by D C Financial given the information 
that was available at the time. They said if things had happened as they should have, Mr D 
wouldve transferred his benefits to the BSPS2.
D C Financial disagreed. In doing so it provided a substantive response, which I have read in 
full. But in summary it said the BSPS2 did not exist at the time so it couldnt have 
recommended Mr D transfer to it. It said it doesnt think the critical yield and whether this 
was achievable should be a substantive consideration when looking at suitability. If the 
critical yield was considered it said the only relevant comparison would be to the PPF. But it 
didnt think critical yields were relevant as Mr D didnt intend to purchase an annuity, so the 
comparison is flawed. In any event it said even if the growth achieved through transferring 
meant the benefits of the new pension were the same as, or even slightly less than the DB 
scheme, the advice would still have been suitable as it provided Mr D with flexibility. And the 
past performance and what had happened since the advice, which it says shouldnt be 
disregarded, showed that this level of growth was achievable. Overall it said it still felt that 
the recommendation to transfer was suitable as it allowed Mr D to achieve his goals and 
avoid moving to the PPF. It also argued that it was not responsible for any losses caused by 
bad investment advice since it had stopped providing ongoing servicing of Mr Ds pension. 
And it said if the ombudsman concludes that the advice wasnt suitable, it wants a 
provisional decision issued with an opportunity to consider and respond to before a final 
decision is reached.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of D C Financials actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below. 
Id firstly like to briefly address something D C Financial raised in its response to the 
investigators assessment. It said that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
previously undertook a review of its advice process in relation to members of the BSPS and 
they didnt highlight any concerns. It said, whilst the advice was tailored for each matter, it 
applied a consistent approach to determining suitability and recording its advice. So it has 
questioned how our service can come to a different conclusion that the transfer advice was 
unsuitable.
My role and that of our service is different to that of the FCA. My role is to look at the 
individual circumstances of a complaint - not a business processes and practices as a whole 
- and decide what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint 
taking into account the considerations I listed above. And that is what Ive done here.
I can also see that D C Financial has requested that I issue a provisional decision on this 
case before I make a final decision. But I dont think I need to do so. Having considered 
everything provided by both sides, Im upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons 
given by the investigator. Im not persuaded that any of the arguments raised by D C 
Financial in its submissions following the investigators assessment are new. And Im 
satisfied that the investigator addressed these themes fully in their opinion letters. Im also 
not making my decision based on any new information provided by Mr D. So, it follows that I 
can issue a final decision.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, D C 
Financial should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
persuaded that it was in his best interests.
Financial viabilityFor the sake of clarity, D C Financial produced a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) as 
required by the regulator, showing how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by 
each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  referred to as the 
critical yield. And it based this on Mr Ds benefits available under the BSPS2. Despite the 
fact the advice was provided after the deadline by which Mr D had to make a choice about 
whether he wanted to opt in to the new BSPS2 or remain in the scheme and move with it to 
the PPF, because Mr D had taken the decision to opt into the BSPS2, Im satisfied it was 
appropriate for D C Financial to use the BSPS2 scheme benefits as the basis of the 
comparison in the report.
Despite this, D C Financial has argued that the BSPS2 was far from certain to go ahead and 
this wasnt a genuine option at the time. So only the critical yields for the PPF are relevant 
here. But I disagree. I think D C Financial is overstating the chance of the BSPS2 not 
happening. The restructuring of BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by 
the time Mr D received advice. Mr D had received his time to choose pack  with joining 
the new scheme as one of the options, which he opted to do. And details of the scheme had 
been provided - the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits as the BSPS but the 
annual increases wouldve been lower. So, I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, 
were confident at that point that it would go ahead. Im also mindful that, as I said above, 
D C Financial used the estimated benefits under the BSPS2 in one of the TVAS reports for 
comparison purposes. And the potential benefits under the BSPS2 were mentioned in the 
suitability report.
So taking all of this into account, I think a comparison to the benefits the BSPS2 was likely to 
provide was a relevant consideration.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
I can see D C Financial says there was no requirement for it to have regard for the discount 
rate. But I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what 
level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2, the 
regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme 
with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. The 
discount rate would be considered a reasonable assumption of likely returns. And 
businesses were free to refer to it. So, whilst I agree businesses weren't required to refer to 
these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a 
typical investor.
Mr D was 28 at the time of the formal written advice and the paperwork records that he 
wanted to retire at 55 / 57  although I note the suitability report specifically said Mr D wasnt 
planning to retire until at least age 57. The TVAS dated 3 January 2018 set out the relevant 
critical yields; at age 65 it was 5.13% if Mr D took a full pension and at age 55 it was 5.88%. 
The TVAS didnt provide the critical yields for a reduced pension and tax-free cash. The 
critical yields required to match the benefits provided through the PPF at age 65 were 4.85% assuming Mr D took a full pension and 4.68% if he took tax free cash and a reduced 
pension. And at age 55 they were 5.9% and 5.73% respectively.
It's not entirely clear to me why D C Financial produced critical yield figures comparing the 
benefits Mr D would receive at age 55 when hed indicated he wouldnt retire until at least 
57. It strikes me that for D C Financial to have properly advised Mr D and to put him in a fully 
informed position, it ought to have compared the benefits available to him at age 57.
 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.6% per year for 26 years to retirement (to age 55 as per the TVAS report.) Ive kept in 
mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
moderate to aggressive attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, and 
despite what D C Financial argues, there would be little point in Mr D giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the scheme.
Here, the critical yield assuming Mr D took a full pension through the BSPS2 at age 55 was 
5.88%. So, if Mr D were to take the same benefits at age 57, I think the critical yield wouldve 
been somewhere between 5.88% and 5.13%, but most likely closer to 5.88%. This figure 
was higher than the discount rate and higher than the regulators middle projection rate.
I can see that D C Financial classified Mr D as a moderate to aggressive risk investor. But 
while I accept Mr D was relatively young and the term to retirement was reasonably long, 
Mr D lacked any real investment experience. In my view he was inexperienced, which is 
what the fact-find document recorded. Taking this into account together with the fact that 
Mr Ds DB scheme pension represented the most significant part of his private pension 
provision at the time, I think a medium risk attitude, or moderate risk (a rating of 5 or 6) was 
appropriate here and more in line with the level of risk I think Mr D was prepared to take with 
his pension. 
 
Given this, I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits provided by the BSPS2 was 
limited if Mr D transferred out of the scheme and invested in line with a moderate attitude to 
risk. Achieving a growth rate of 5.88% was the rate to effectively stand still. To improve on 
the benefits available to Mr D in the BSPS2 required growth in excess of this every year until 
retirement. I think its likely, at best, Mr D would end up receiving benefits of broadly the 
same overall value as a result of investing in line with a moderate attitude to risk. In my 
view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required to exceed the benefits 
provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, would have required Mr D to 
take a higher level of investment risk than I think he was prepared to take. There of course 
still remained the real risk that Mr D might end up with benefits of a lower overall value than 
those provided by the BSPS2.
 
And given the critical yield required to match Mr Ds benefits through the PPF, I dont think 
the situation was any different here - I think the opportunity to improve on the guaranteed 
benefits provided by the PPF was limited if Mr D transferred out of the BSPS.
So from a financial viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ds best interests.
I can see that D C Financial says that the critical yield should not be a substantive 
consideration when looking at whether advice was suitable. It also says the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is based on the growth required to produce a fund large enough 
to purchase an annuity and Mr D didnt want an annuity. But crucially the regulator required 
D C Financial to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the 
critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont think Mr D 
could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a regular income at 
retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for over 25 years and perhaps longer. Its 
entirely possible that Mr D would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement (which 
he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme).
D C Financial has said that in any event the past performance of the recommended fund and 
the performance between the transfer being completed and the complaint show the critical 
yield was achievable. And it says this shouldnt be discounted. I dont think this was the view 
of the adviser at the time  they acknowledged in the suitability report that they didnt believe 
the returns were achievable over the longer-term. In any event, as D C Financial knows, past 
performance is no guarantee for future performance. So I still consider the discount rate and 
the regulators standard projection rates to be more realistic in this regard over the longer 
term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period as in 
this case.
Overall, Im not persuaded that even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and Mr Ds had moved 
with the scheme to the PPF and his benefits were reduced, he was likely to be able to 
improve on those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. In my view, by transferring 
his pension it was likely hed end up, at best, with retirement benefits of broadly the same as 
those available to him from the DB scheme at his preferred retirement age. So based on this 
alone, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ds best interests.
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
D C Financial has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing broadly the same benefits. Ive considered below 
whether such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the main reasons for the recommendation was to enable Mr D to access his pension 
flexibly from retirement age  Mr D wanted the ability to take benefits without penalty before 
65 and he wanted the option of taking a lump sum without having to take an income at the 
same time.
But I dont think Mr D knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement. 
And in any event I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to achieve it.
 
Crucially here Mr D was only 28 at the time of the written advice. And based on what Ive 
seen, he didnt have concrete retirement plans  in fact I dont think he had any real plans. 
In my view Mr Ds intended retirement age was simply driven by the earliest age legislation 
this would allow him to retire and draw his pension benefits. I think most people, if asked, 
would say they wanted to retire at the earliest opportunity  I dont think it was a specific 
objective of Mr Ds. I think Mr Ds retirement was so far in the future that he couldnt 
reasonably have had any firm plans. As Mr D still had the majority of his working life in front 
of him before he could think about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any 
kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr D to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt reasonably 
know what his needs in retirement would be.Mr D might have wanted to retire early, but he already had this option available to him - he 
didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I accept that Mr D couldnt take his DB scheme 
benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a cash lump sum and a reduced annual 
pension, Mr D had to take those benefits at the same time. But again, nothing indicates that 
Mr D had a need to take a cash lump sum and defer taking his income, or to vary his income 
throughout retirement. It strikes me that flexibility was simply a nice to have or a feature or 
consequence of transferring to a personal arrangement rather than a genuine objective.
I can see D C Financial also recommended the transfer to allow Mr D to take his benefits 
early without being penalised for it. I think D C Financial was referring to the actuarial 
reduction that would take place to reflect the pension benefits being paid for longer. The 
starting monetary amount when compared with the full pension payable from age 65  the 
normal scheme retirement age  wouldve been less. But by taking an income at age 55 or 
57 Mr D wouldve been receiving his pension for longer. So its a trade-off, rather than a 
penalty  in my view the word penalty implies the DB scheme was inferior, which I think was 
unfair. In simple terms, it meant that Mr D couldnt expect to have the same pension he was 
due at 65 at age 55 or 57  hed have to accept less because it would potentially be paid for 
longer. And I think if this had been made clearer to Mr D, he may well have been less 
concerned than D C Financial has suggested.
Mr D might still have been unhappy with the idea of accepting a reduction in his pension, but 
I dont think that means he needed to transfer when he did or that it was suitable for D C 
Financial to have recommended he do so.
Importantly here Mr D was contributing to his workplace Defined Contribution (DC) pension 
scheme, as was his employer, meaning that a total of 16% of Mr Ds salary was being 
invested here. It was also recorded that Mr D was considering increasing his contribution 
after his wedding to provide a combined contribution of 20%. Given Mr D had the potential 
for another 28 years or more of pension contributions ahead, this had the potential to be 
worth a not insignificant amount. At Mr Ds current income, it had the potential to be worth in 
excess of £200,000 not accounting for any growth or increases in salary.
The nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Mr D with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. Mr D couldve taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr D 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve given him 
the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided  and would likely meet his 
future retirement income needs.
So in any event, Mr D didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. Of course, if Mr D 
did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this 
couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which as Ive said was still 
many years away. 
And because Mr D had taken the decision to opt into the BSPS2, he wouldve retained the 
ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if indeed it was required. This ought to have been 
explained by D C Financial.
Turning to Mr Ds income need  its clear that Mr D didnt know what his income need in 
retirement would be and theres no evidence that D C Financial carried out a detailed income 
and expenditure in retirement analysis to determine it. D C Financial appears to have 
concluded that a figure of two thirds of Mr Ds pre-retirement income, or around £1,500 net 
would be sufficient. As I said above, theres nothing to indicate that Mr D needed variable 
income. And in my view, nothing to indicate that the income from the BSPS2 or the PPF (if the new scheme didnt ultimately go ahead) wouldnt have provided Mr D with at least a solid 
income foundation upon which his other provision could supplement, to meet his overall 
need  not accounting for Mr Ds partners provision, which would go towards their 
household income need.
For example, at age 55 under the BSPS2, D C Financials analysis shows that Mr D would 
receive an annual pension of £7,285  so slightly higher at age 57. This rose to £12,001 at 
age 65. Given Mr D didnt have any known need for a cash lump sum (it appears Mr Ds 
mortgage would have been repaid several years prior to his retirement age for example) I 
think Mr D couldve likely met his income needs until his state pension became payable at 
age 68. The DB scheme income wouldnt have fully met his need  but I think any shortfall 
couldve been met by accessing income and/or by taking cash lump sum from his DC 
scheme. As I indicated above, I think Mr D wouldve likely had a significant pension to draw 
on flexibly, as and when he needed, to top up his income or take additional lump sums. So, I 
think its also the case that Mr D didnt have to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into 
the BSPS2.
While Mr D had already decided to opt into the BSPS2, if it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve 
moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 55 Mr D wouldve been entitled to a pension of 
around £7,300  so slightly higher than the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2. Its 
likely the figure would be slightly less at age 57 when compared to the BSPS2. But I dont 
think any difference was substantial such that it shouldve made a difference to the 
recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr D wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his 
state pension became payable and his partner also had provision to contribute to their joint 
household income. So, I still think Mr D couldve met his needs in retirement even if the 
scheme moved to the PPF.
Overall, I think Mr D couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 
or the PPF based on a retirement age of 57. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests 
for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really 
needed.  
Death benefits
The suitability report said that the flexible death benefits of a personal pension appealed to 
Mr D where hed have peace of mind that the full pension fund is going to be utilised.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement - not as a legacy provision 
tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or different death benefits should have been 
prioritised over this and Mr Ds security in retirement. And I say potential, because the sum 
left on Mr Ds death was dependent on investment returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or 
investment performance was lower than expected, there may not have been a large sum to 
pass on anyway.
D C Financial recorded that Mr D had generous death-in-service cover through his employer 
if he died before retirement. So he already had lump sum death benefits available, which he 
could nominate his future spouse to receive. And it also knew that Mr D was paying into the 
DC pension scheme and he wouldve been able to nominate his partner as beneficiary of this plan too. So its possible that Mr D already had sufficient lump sum death benefits to 
enable his family to be catered for as he intended in the event of his death.  
I can see that D C Financial noted in the suitability report that the option of life assurance 
had been considered but discounted because Mr D wanted to ensure his pension benefits 
werent lost rather than incur the added cost for an additional lump sum benefit. But D C 
Financials role wasnt simply to transact what Mr D thought he wanted  as I said above a 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I think that if Mr D 
genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family over and above that which was already 
available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund 
remained on his death, D C Financial shouldve instead properly explored and ultimately 
recommended additional life cover. The starting point here ought to have been to ask Mr D 
how much he ideally would like to leave to his family, after taking into account the above 
existing means. And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, 
which was likely to be affordable, particularly as Mr D was young and despite recording a 
health condition he said he was in good health.
Notwithstanding the above, I can see that in the fact-find document from August 2017 under 
the financial category of providing protection for Mr Ds family in the event of death and 
sickness, it was noted that Mr Ds mortgage adviser was discussing this. So its possible
Mr D's needs in this area had been addressed or were in the process of being addressed. 
But I still think this was something D C Financial ought to have explored properly.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And I dont think D C 
Financial did enough to address the alternatives available to Mr D to meet this objective.
Control and concerns about financial stability of BSPS
The suitability report records that Mr D was concerned that the BSPS2s implementation 
wasnt guaranteed and he didnt want to risk entering the PPF.
I have no doubt that Mr D was concerned about his pension. There was a sense of general 
uncertainty and there was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. I think this is likely 
the reason Mr D sought advice in the first place and its possible that he was considering 
transferring because of these concerns about his employer and what might happen. But I 
think to a greater degree, this risk was already understood and accepted by Mr D because, 
hed already chosen to opt in to the BSPS2, knowing he would move to the PPF if the new 
scheme didnt go ahead.
In any event, it was D C Financials duty to give Mr D an objective picture and recommend 
what was in his best interests. I accept that the new BSPS2 scheme wasnt guaranteed to go 
ahead at the time of the advice. But at the time, the available information from the scheme 
trustees indicated that it would likely go ahead. 
And I think this is what D C Financial shouldve been clear with Mr D to help alleviate his 
concerns. 
In terms of Mr Ds specific concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF, despite the 10% 
reduction in starting benefits and the fact the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
importantly the income was still guaranteed. And the income available to Mr D through the 
PPF wouldve still provided a strong foundation towards the income he would likely need at 
retirement and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. So I think D C 
Financial ought to have specifically reassured Mr D that, even if there was a chance the 
BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought or was led to believe. Mr D might not have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but for the 
reasons Ive set out earlier, I dont think Mr D wouldve needed to, to achieve his objectives.
Overall I dont think these concerns shouldve led to D C Financial recommending Mr D 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr D was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like 
attractive features to Mr D. But as I said earlier, D C Financial wasnt there to just transact 
what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what 
Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF. By 
transferring to a personal arrangement Mr D was, at best, likely to receive broadly the same 
overall retirement benefits at his preferred retirement age of 57. And I dont think there were 
any other particular or compelling reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension at this time when hed taken the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
So, I think D C Financial shouldve advised Mr D that he should not transfer the benefits of 
his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement and that his decision to opt into the 
BSPS2 was suitable for him in the circumstances.
I understand D C Financial thinks it is unreasonable for us to say that Mr D shouldve been 
advised to join the BSPS2 scheme because it wasnt certain to proceed so it wasnt a 
genuine option. But as I said earlier on, while I accept that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed 
when the advice was given, I think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going 
ahead. And the Time to Choose documentation confirmed that scheme members could opt 
into the BSPS2 but still change their mind and transfer prior to March 2018. So, contrary to 
what D C Financial has said, I think this was an option that it couldve recommended at the 
time.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against D C 
Financials advice, which is what D C Financial says. It argues that Mr D was set on 
transferring and wouldve insisted on going ahead.
Ive considered this carefully - but Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against D C Financials advice. 
I say this because, while I accept Mr D was motivated to transfer when he first approached
D C Financial (and when he contacted them again later on) on balance, I still think Mr D 
wouldve listened to and followed D C Financials advice if things had happened as they 
should have and hed been advised that his decision to opt into the BSPS2 was the right 
one. 
Mr D was an inexperienced investor who in my view neither possessed the necessary skill, 
knowledge nor confidence to go against the advice they were given, particularly in what is a 
complex pension matter. So, if D C Financial had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If D C 
Financial had explained that Mr D could meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr D would have 
insisted on transferring out of his scheme against D C Financials advice.
In light of the above, I think D C Financial should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr D. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish D C Financial  which is the job of the 
regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on 
Mr D. Taking everything into account, including that I consider Mr Ds retirement provision is 
of great importance to him, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I 
think an award of £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
Finally I can see that D C Financial says that it shouldnt be responsible for any losses as a 
result of any subsequent bad investment advice  a reference to any losses stemming from 
those investments after it ceased managing Mr Ds pension investment. But the investments 
would not have arisen at all were it not for D C Financials unsuitable advice. So, I dont 
agree that its responsibility for loss stemming from its advice should be limited to when it 
ended its agreement with Mr D.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.Mr D has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for D C Financials unsuitable advice. I consider if 
suitable advice had been given D C Financial wouldve confirmed Mr Ds decision to opt into 
the BSPS2 was suitable for him in the circumstances. So it is the benefits available to Mr D 
through the BSPS2 that should be used for comparison purposes. 
D C Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
D C Financial may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date D C Financial receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes D C Financial to pay 
Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect D C Financial to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
D C Financial Limited should also pay Mr D £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
in this matter.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman