DRN-4311124
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) didnt 
collect payments on his buy to let mortgages, leading to them going into arrears.
What happened
Mr S has several buy to let mortgages with BM, and has done for many years. 
In 2022, Mr S was contacted by BM because two of the mortgages were in arrears. No direct 
debit payments had been taken since September 2021.
In September 2021, BM had written to Mr S to tell him that it had updated the computer 
system that managed his mortgages. It told him what the changes were and what his 
monthly payments would be. It also said that it would continue to collect the direct debit set 
up for each of his mortgage accounts  unless the direct debit was set to come from a 
savings account (rather than a current account), in which case Mr S would need to set up a 
new direct debit from a current account.
Mr S says he didnt receive this letter. It was sent to the correspondence address BM had for 
him  an address Ill call M  but Mr S hasnt lived at that address for some time.
When payments werent made, BM sent out arrears letters, again to address M. Mr S says 
he didnt receive these letters either  he only became aware when BM sent a text about the 
arrears to his mobile phone number.
Mr S complained. He said that his payments were being made by direct debit. The direct 
debits must have been cancelled when the system changes were made  that wasnt his 
fault and because BM had written to an old address he hadnt realised the payments werent 
being made. He said he had also complained to his bank, which had said there was no 
evidence that BM had requested direct debits be set up.
BM said that as part of the migration to its new system it had changed the account numbers 
for Mr Ss mortgages. That meant it had cancelled the direct debits on all his mortgages to 
amend the reference numbers, replacing them with new direct debits with new reference 
numbers. This went through successfully, and the payments for September 2021  after the 
migration  were collected without problem. The first payments that were missed were in 
October, not September, and its systems showed that the direct debits on these two 
mortgages were cancelled by Mr S or his bank, not by BM.
Our investigator initially said that it wasnt clear whether the error was caused by BM, or by 
Mr Ss bank. BM said that it hadnt cancelled the direct debits, but the bank said it had no 
evidence that BM had set up or called for them. The investigator said that Mr S hadnt done 
anything wrong, and as he had since cleared the arrears it was fair to remove the resulting 
arrears markers from his credit file. BM agreed to this. 
Mr S didnt agree  he said BM was at fault. He provided further evidence from his bank 
which he said showed that BM had not requested the direct debits to be set up. He also said 
that he had been caused substantial losses, because his intention was to re-mortgage these 
loans, borrowing more money to fund other projects and fixing the interest rates. Because of 
the adverse entries on his credit file, he hadnt been able to do that. He estimated his losses 
at around £47,000.
Our investigator considered the further information that had come to light. He thought it 
suggested that it was more likely than not that it was BM, rather than Mr S or the other bank, 
that was at fault. But he wasnt persuaded that Mr S had been caused financial loss. He said 
that BM should pay Mr S £750 compensation in recognition of the considerable stress and 
upset Mr S had been caused, as well as the amount of time and inconvenience it had taken 
to resolve. BM agreed with that but Mr S didnt, and so the case comes to me for a final 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since BM accepted the investigators view but Mr S didnt, the main point at issue that I have 
to decide is what BM needs to do to put matters right.
But before I consider that, Ill just say that I agree with the investigator that its more likely 
than not that BM, rather than Mr S or the bank that provides his current account, is 
responsible for the direct debit failure. Thats because:
The problem occurred immediately after a change to BMs systems  with no 
changes being made either by Mr S or the other bank. There was sufficient money in 
Mr Ss account to cover the payments and he had not requested any changes to his 
direct debits.
The other bank has confirmed that the old direct debit, prior to the system migration, 
remains live even though BM says its process was to cancel it and replace it with a 
new one using the new account number as a reference.
BM says that what should have happened is that the first payment after the system 
change was made using the old direct debit, and if that validated its systems would 
then replace that direct debit with the new one. The other bank has shown that BM 
did make the first payment request following the migration using the old direct debit, 
and BMs account records show it was received. But the payment after that, which 
should have been taken via a new direct debit, didnt happen.
The other bank received no instructions to cancel the old direct debit. The old one 
remains live on Mr Ss account, though BM hasnt used it to call for payment since 
October 2021.
BMs transaction history for the mortgages shows a failed direct debit collection. But 
the other bank has no record of receiving the new direct debit payment request at 
that time. It appears this was because BMs system used the new reference but the 
old originator code when calling for the direct debit  so it wasnt recognised by the 
other bank and no payment was made. 
The system migration went smoothly for Mr Ss other mortgages, but it appears that there 
was an error in migrating these two accounts. This error meant that either the new direct 
debit was not set up correctly or that payment requests were not made correctly, so no 
payment was received; and although the old direct debit mandate remained live, BM didnt call for payment on that either. 
As a result, Mr Ss mortgages fell into arrears. The problem continued for several months, 
until Mr S received a text message from BM in February 2022  at which point new direct 
debits were set up correctly and the problem was resolved.
So Im satisfied that this situation began because of an error or malfunction in the migration 
of these two mortgages from BMs old system to the new one, or in the setting up of new 
direct debits that ought to have followed. However, I dont think its fair to hold BM entirely 
responsible for the consequences of that for Mr S.
BM wrote to Mr S several times about the arrears on the account. It hadnt identified that it 
was at fault, but it had identified payment wasnt being made. If Mr S had contacted BM 
when the first payment was missed and BM wrote to him, the situation could have been 
resolved much quicker and more straightforwardly.
BM wrote to Mr S at least once a month on both of the accounts that were in arrears  
around ten letters in all. These letters were all sent to the correspondence address BM had, 
an address Ill call M. But Mr S no longer lived there so he didnt see the letters. It was only 
when BM sent him a text message in February 2022 that he realised there was a problem.
I think BM acted reasonably in writing to Mr S at the correspondence address he had given 
it. These were buy to let mortgages, so it wouldnt ordinarily write to the property address  
and if it had, Mr S might well not have seen letters sent there either. 
It's up to Mr S to make sure his mortgage lender has his up to date contact details, and if he 
didnt do that it wouldnt be fair to hold BM responsible for letters not reaching him. Mr S 
says that BM could have rung or texted him sooner. It could, but there wasnt any obligation 
on it to do so. And generally important correspondence about a mortgage is sent by letter.
Also, because the payments werent reaching the mortgage accounts, they also werent 
leaving Mr Ss current account. Mr S says he didnt notice this because he has a substantial 
property portfolio, so didnt notice two relatively small payments hadnt been made. But as a 
property professional I would expect Mr S to monitor the income and expenditure of his 
rental business and make sure his liabilities were being met.
So while BM should have ensured the direct debits were set up properly following the 
system migration, the error would have been picked up and resolved much sooner if it had 
the correct correspondence address for Mr S, or if Mr S had noticed that mortgage payments 
for two of his properties werent being paid. Its for those reasons that I dont think I can fairly 
hold BM entirely responsible for the consequences that followed.
Putting things right
Mr S says his losses are substantial. He says that because of the arrears recorded on his 
credit file when he came to re-mortgage in 2022 he wasnt able to do so. It wasnt until later 
in the year, when BM corrected his credit file, that he would have been able to apply for 
re-mortgages. He didnt do so immediately because hed complained to BM and was 
expecting that it would put him back in the position he would have been in had the error not 
happened. And by the end of 2022, when BM said it wouldnt lower the interest rate on his 
mortgages, Mr S was facing cashflow problems caused by the higher rates  so wasnt 
actually able to re-mortgage until hed resolved that in May 2023. Mr S says that as a result 
hes had to pay higher interest in the meantime and hes now on higher interest rates than 
were available in February 2022. He estimates these losses at around £47,000. Mr S also says that when re-mortgaging, hed intended to raise further finance for business 
purposes  but missed out on that. And he says that the whole situation has caused him 
substantial stress and inconvenience  including causing health problems.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr S has said about that. But I dont think it would be fair 
to require BM to repay Mr Ss estimated financial losses. 
Had Mr S found out about the problem in around November 2021  which could have 
happened if BM had his correct address, or if hed noticed the payments not being made  it 
could have been resolved by the time he intended to re-mortgage in 2022. Ive explained 
why I think BM was responsible for the original problem  but not for the delay in Mr S 
finding out about it. 
In addition, theres no guarantee Mr S would have been able to borrow the further funds he 
intended. And while hes provided mortgage illustrations from 2022, no applications were 
made at that time. BM didnt have new rates available to him, so Mr S would have needed to 
apply to new lenders. I appreciate he didnt make any applications because he thought they 
wouldnt be successful because of the arrears on his credit file. And I agree thats likely  but 
it doesnt automatically follow that they would have been successful but for the credit file 
issue. They might  but they might not. Mr S might not have met the lending criteria of those 
lenders for other reasons, such as the size of his portfolio or because of something about the 
individual properties. The difficulty is that I dont have evidence that means I can safely 
conclude its more likely than not Mr S would have been able to re-mortgage or if so at what 
interest rate. So even if I were to hold BM entirely responsible for no applications being 
made in 2022, it would be difficult for me to say that Mr S has made a loss or if so to quantify 
that loss.
Ive also considered the health information Mr S has provided, which relates to physical and 
mental health issues which he says are stress related, and which were not present before 
this all happened.
The medical evidence shows that Mr S has those conditions. It doesnt show they were 
caused by BMs actions. But nevertheless I accept that, even if Mr S might have become ill 
in any event, its likely the stress and upset of the situation he found himself in would have 
worsened his conditions and their impact on him.
Overall, Im satisfied that this whole situation has taken a considerable amount of time and 
effort on Mr Ss part to resolve and has had a substantial impact on him. And while, for the 
reasons Ive said, I dont think BM is entirely responsible I do think its fair that it pays him 
substantial compensation for its part in what happened. BM accepted our investigators 
recommendation of £750 compensation and I think thats fair in all the circumstances.
Finally, if it hadnt already done so I would have directed BM to remove the records of the 
arrears from Mr Ss credit file. Its clear that this problem began with BMs systems migration 
and that Mr S was in a position to have paid the mortgage payments had BM called for the 
direct debits that should have been in place. It wouldnt be fair or accurate for his credit file to 
show that Mr S failed to pay his mortgage when that was due to BM failing to collect 
payment rather than Mr S being unable or unwilling to make it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires to pay Mr S £750 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman