DRN-2625070
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that because of confusing messages from TSB Bank plc, they were 
unsure whether their mortgage account was being managed correctly 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with TSB with several sub-accounts. On 15 December 2018 
Mr and Mrs M got letters from TSB saying they were behind with their mortgage and a 
payment of £1,666.22 was due although there was a separate request in the letter asking for 
£774.83 to bring the account up to date. Mr and Mrs M say that their account was up to date 
and in fact had £2,000 in credit in the overpayment reserve. Mr and Mrs M phoned TSB and 
were told there was a computer glitch. Mr and Mrs M say that when they got the letter they 
were going on holiday for the weekend and the letter ruined their weekend. TSB credited 
their bank account with £100 for the inconvenience caused and £50 expenses.
Then in mid-January Mr and Mrs M got their annual mortgage statement. This showed that 
most of the sub-accounts had been paid up and with one account remaining with an 
outstanding balance of £13,891 and a monthly payment of £837.56. Mr and Mrs M noted 
that the interest rate had increased from 2.5% to 4.24% and the monthly payment also 
increased but they hadnt got notification of this.
  
On 17 January 2019 TSB sent a letter saying that following a review that it was noted that 
some accounts had been overpaid and some had been underpaid and in order to rectify this 
it had consolidated the arrears on sub-account one (I believe that this should have read sub-
account nine) following the redemption of sub accounts 1,2,3,5,6,7 and 8 and that the new 
monthly payment would be £914.38.
 
Then on 27 February 2019 it wrote to Mr and Mrs M saying that it had consolidated the 
arrears on sub-account nine and provided figures of what was redeemed and what was 
transferred. It also said that the monthly payments had been re-calculated to pay off the 
mortgage when the term ends in one year and one months time.
On 26 June 2019, TSB provided further information on how it dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms 
account, including the information that the sub-accounts were manually cleared on 17 
January 2019 backdating the redemption of these sub accounts to 3 December 2018 with 
the overpayments of these accounts transferred to sub-account 9 on 17 January 2018.
Mr and Mrs M remained dissatisfied with the information they were getting and visited a TSB 
branch on the understanding it had a mortgage department. They then wrote to TSB on 8 
July 2019 raising a number of queries beginning with a query about overpayments they were 
told about in December 2018 and the interest rate increase on sub-account nine which came 
into effect on 1 February 2019 which they say that they werent told about and their general 
dissatisfaction at the level of information they were getting from TSB. 
TSB replied on 6 September 2019 with its final response to say that the interest rate 
increase had increased the monthly payments but didnt say when the rate change came 
into effect and if Mr and Mrs M were informed of the interest rate change. TSB felt that it had 
done nothing wrong except that it had told Mr and Mrs M that it had a mortgage department 
in a branch which Mr and Mrs M had visited but there was none there. So, it paid them 
compensation, including expenses of £64.
 
Our investigator felt that the increase in payment was caused by TSBs error of how it 
applied the funds to the sub-accounts initially which caused the original arrears on sub-
account nine. Our investigator also felt that TSB had made other errors including various 
references to the account being in arrears, had applied payments to the sub-accounts 
incorrectly, it hadnt informed Mr and Mrs M of the increase in the rate of interest and didnt 
send Mr and Mrs M a statement of their overpayments as requested. Our investigator 
recommended an increase in the compensation by a further £200.
TSB replied to say that it had already made a redress payment of £214 - £150 of which had 
not been referred to by our investigator and that should be satisfactory, but our investigator 
didnt amend her view. Mr and Mrs M disagreed saying that the compensation offered by 
TSB was paltry and that they should provide annual statements of how money is allocated 
between sub-accounts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M had a number of sub-accounts and TSB has had a difficulty in how it allocated 
payments between them which left some sub-accounts in credit and some in arrears 
although overall the mortgage account was in credit. As I understand it, the monthly payment 
for sub-account nine was recalculated from 1 September 2018 on an increase in the interest 
rate. At that stage sub-account nine was in arrears of £1,663.68 but the mortgage as a 
whole was in credit by £2,026.26. So, £1,663,68 was deducted from the balance when 
recalculating the monthly payment for sub account nine and so that account was effectively 
underfunded. In January when the other accounts were redeemed, the surplus of £631.60 
was transferred to sub-account nine. At the same time, TSB says it consolidated the 
remaining arrears of £1,032.07 on the sub-account, and the monthly payment was 
recalculated using the actual balance and so the monthly payments increased. 
That restructuring appears to have arisen because of how TSB applied the funds to the sub 
accounts from about 2017 following some changes related to when Mr and Mrs M asked for 
a payment holiday.
In simple terms, this complaint arises because Mr and Mrs M were told they were in arrears 
when they were not and didnt receive a satisfactory explanation of why that was. It wasnt 
simply a computer glitch which produced the initial arrears letter. I note that it took three 
attempts for TSB to set out why the account now appeared as it did and a further 
investigation by our investigator to explain why the situation arose.
My understanding from Mr and Mrs Ms email of 23 February 2021 is that they have now got 
the information they wanted but feel they should have got it sooner and I agree. After being 
told they were in arrears they wanted an explanation and Ive found that TSB at times 
confused the situation rather than clarified it. There are various reference to consolidating 
the arrears which I can understand Mr and Mrs M had difficulty with as the mortgage as a 
whole was not in arrears.  But Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs M suffered no financial loss 
as a result of this. 
This complaint relates to a series of events some of which Mr and Mrs M already got 
compensation for. They have already received payments of £150 and of £64 for some of their trouble and upset and related expenses. That compensation related to the upset 
caused by the initial letter in December 2018 suggesting they were in arrears and the wasted 
journey to the branch in search of mortgage advice. 
But on top of this Mr and Mrs M have clearly spent a frustrating time trying to get to the 
bottom of what caused the issue in the first place and to confirm to their reasonable 
satisfaction that TSB had properly administered their account. I find that TSB failed to 
communicate effectively with Mr and Mrs M and provide the information they reasonably 
requested in a reasonable period.There is definitely communication from TSB including the 
three letters in January, February and June 2019. But the need for that further information is 
an indication that TSB wasnt satisfactorily addressing Mr and Mrs Ms concerns including 
how this arose in the first place which would give them a reasonable apprehension about the 
administration of their accounts.  
For those reasons I am upholding this complaint. In addition, I take on board that TSB 
seems not to have sent Mr and Mrs M a letter advising them of an increase in the interest 
rate to sub-account nine. But given that there was no financial loss, and that TSB did attempt 
to deal with Mr and Mrs M concerns as they understood them to be, I agree with our 
investigator that payment of a further £200 is appropriate compensation and should be paid 
by TSB to Mr and Mrs M. 
 
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should pay Mr and Mrs M £200. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman