DRN-1928526
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked access to her account, before closing it and 
returning payments to their source. She wants Monzo to pay compensation for the trouble 
and upset this caused.
What happened
Miss B had a current account with Monzo.
Monzo has explained that it was contacted in March 2020 by a bank which also provided 
banking facilities to Miss B. It said it was concerned about certain activity between Miss Bs 
account with it and her account with Monzo. So, it placed blocks on Miss Bs account, which 
meant she couldnt access the money in her account.
Monzo also decided it no longer wanted Miss B as a customer and she her account without 
notice. 
Miss B said she hadnt done anything wrong and as a result of Monzos actions she was left 
without access to any money which meant she unable to feed herself and pay for 
accommodation. Shes explained that she suffered a great deal of stress and anxiety. And 
as she was an international student in the UK she had nowhere to turn for help.
Miss B told Monzo the money paid into her account was her student grant which was to be 
used to cover the costs of her living expenses whilst she completed her education in the UK. 
So, she says the bank shouldnt have returned any money to source. And wants the money 
returned to her. 
Monzo didnt believe it had done anything wrong. Given the concerns reported by Miss Bs 
other bank, it said its actions had been appropriate. It noted however, that it should have 
returned some money to Miss B when it closed her account. So, it offered her £30 as a 
gesture of goodwill. Miss B didnt accept the banks offer. She says it doesnt adequately 
reflect the amount of distress she has suffered. And she wants Monzo to give her the money 
it sent back to the other bank. 
An investigator looked into Miss Bs case. She broadly said Monzo had treated Miss B fairly, 
although she thought it should return £114.10 to Miss B along with 8% interest for loss of 
use of this money. She also noted that a refund of £165.10 had come into Miss Bs account 
after it had been closed. So, she said Monzo should also pay this to Miss B.
Miss B didnt accept what the investigator said. As no agreement could be reached the 
matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Miss B has told us and the bank that she feels strongly about her 
complaint. I appreciate that shes upset that Monzo blocked and closed her account and that 
this caused her inconvenience. I can also understand that this was no doubt stressful for her 
especially as at the time says she was studying. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must 
be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill 
explain why. 
Ill deal first of all with Monzos decision to restrict Miss Bs account whilst it looked into the 
concerns expressed to it by her other bank. Having looked at all the evidence and in 
particular how Miss B was operating her account, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the 
circumstances for Monzo to have acted in the way that it did. Monzo has explained that this 
was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats in line with what most banks 
would do in the same situation. And it enabled Monzo to consider how best to react to the 
report it had received.
Monzo also werent obliged to tell Miss B why it was carrying out a review of her account  
as much as shed like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. The 
terms and conditions also permit Monzo to review an account. So, I cant say the bank has 
done anything wrong by not providing this information to Miss B.
The timing of Monzos actions was unfortunate. Miss B has explained she was studying, and 
the banks actions made life very difficult for her. And I can appreciate that she was overseas 
away from her family. So, I can understand why she found this experience with Monzo 
stressful and upsetting.
But banks have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having 
looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Monzo was complying with its obligations when it 
blocked and reviewed Miss Bs account. So, whilst I accept this caused Miss B 
inconvenience, I cant say Monzo treated her unfairly. 
Miss B says that the money in the account shouldnt have been returned to source and that 
the funds were part of her student loan. So, it should be returned to her. Im afraid I dont 
agree with her about that. Having looked at the activity on Miss Bs account, and the 
information the bank received from the other bank, I think that was a reasonable action for 
Monzo to take. I can also see from her account statements, that shed already spent her loan 
funds, when Monzo returned the money to the other bank. So, Im not going to ask Monzo to 
return the money it sent back to the other bank to Miss B.
However, I can see that after Monzo sent the funds back to source, it should have returned 
£114.10 to Miss B. I also understand that a refunded payment of £165.10 came into Miss Bs 
account after it had been closed.  Ive not seen any evidence that Miss B isnt entitled to 
these funds. So, I agree with the investigator that the bank should return these two amounts 
to Miss B. 
The investigator noted that the bank had acknowledged that it should have returned some 
money to Miss B; it offered Miss B £30 in recognition of that. The investigator thought that 
the offer of £30 was fair in the circumstances. And whilst I appreciate, Miss B wont agree, I 
share that assessment, and dont therefore think it necessary for me to award any more.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss Bs account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Monzo closed Miss Bs notice immediately. In my view that was reasonable, given the 
concerns the bank had about how Miss B was operating her account. Ive also kept in mind 
that at the time, Miss B had at least one of other bank account, so I think the immediate 
impact on her would have been reduced.
Lastly, Ill deal with Miss Bs comments and response to the investigators view regarding her 
intention of taking legal action. This service provides an informal dispute-resolution service 
(we were established as an informal alternative to the civil courts) it is for us to determine 
how we assess and determine complaints. If Miss B does not agree with our view, she does 
not have to accept it, and if she does not accept this final decision, she will be free to 
continue to pursue her complaint by other means should she wish to do so. I cannot, 
however, advise her on how to go about doing that.
In summary, I appreciate of course, that Monzos actions caused Miss B stress and 
inconvenience. So, I realise Miss B will be disappointed by my decision. But Im not going to 
ask Monzo to do anything more to resolve Miss Bs complaint. 
Putting things right
In view of the above, I find that had Monzo done what it should have, Miss B would have 
been refunded some money when her account closed. So Monzo need to put things right by 
doing the following:
Refund Miss B £114.10
Adding 8% interest per annum to that amount from the time its review finished which 
was 14 April 2020 to the time payment is made to Miss B
Pay Miss B £165.15 for the refund due to her 
Pay £30 compensation for the delay in returning the closing balance to Miss B
 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right in the 
manner Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman