DRN-3031250
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mr H and Mrs K say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold that PPI policy. 
I know that when PPI was sold, Lloyds was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester. To keep 
things simple, Ill refer mainly to Lloyds as thats the business responsible for this complaint. 
What happened
Mr H and Mrs K took out a mortgage in 1998 and then a further advance in 2002. The PPI 
was sold in 2009, but it doesnt look as though this was alongside a new mortgage. Although 
Mr H and Mrs K had a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up to cover Mr H only. 
 
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr H and 
Mrs Ks circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of that 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that because Lloyds 
told us that the commission paid for the PPI was less than 50% of the premiums paid, Lloyds 
didnt need to pay back any of the commission. 
Mr H and Mrs Ks representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds didnt need to tell Mr H and 
Mrs K about the commission it received - so it doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr H and Mrs K paid for the PPI. 
Was the PPI mis-sold? 
 
My reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out below. 
PPI was sold in a face to face meeting between the parties in a branch of Lloyds. I cant 
know what was said during that meeting. To help me decide whats most likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at what Mr H and Mrs K told us about it. And Ive also considered the 
documentary evidence thats available from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Lloyds made it clear that this policy was optional 
and Mr H and Mrs K didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. As I said above, the PPI 
was sold separately to their mortgage, so I think theyd have known it wasnt a condition of 
their mortgage, and that it was a separate financial product. The cover was set up for Mr H 
only and I can see that an application form for the PPI was completed and signed, along with  
a separate direct debit mandate. Im satisfied Mr H and Mrs K agreed to this cover in the 
knowledge they could have refused it if they didnt want it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats because it was sold in a Lloyds branch and I can 
see why Mr H and Mrs K may have reasonably concluded Lloyds took account of their 
personal circumstances before recommending the cover. That means Lloyds had to check 
whether the PP was suitable for their needs. To help me decide whether the cover was 
suitable, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive 
also given careful thought to what Mr and Mrs K told us about their personal circumstances 
at the time. 
I can see that if theyd had to make a claim on the policy, the mortgage repayments would 
have been covered for up to 12 months for each claim if Mr H had been off sick or if he lost 
his job. The amount of sick pay Mr H would have been entitled to isnt clear, but it looks as 
though it would have been three months full pay at most. Im satisfied then that Mr H and 
Mrs K could have run into difficulties meeting their mortgage repayments if Mr H was off 
work. I appreciate he had some savings, but those funds were the equivalent of less than a 
months gross salary. So the PPI could still have been useful. 
I understand Mr H had a chest injury in 1981. But this was almost 30 years before the cover 
was sold and the evidence doesnt suggest this condition affected Mr H when the PPI was 
sold. So I cant reasonably say this rendered the cover unsuitable. I havent seen anything 
unusual about Mr Hs employment circumstances that would have stopped a successful 
claim being made. There were no additional restrictions on cover for mental health and back 
conditions. Overall, I think the cover was probably suitable for Mr H and Mrs Ks 
circumstances. 
Its possible the information provided at the point of sale wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Ive found that Mr H and Mrs K chose to take the cover out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. As I have set out above, the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable, nor was it too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought from the information 
provided at the point of sale. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr H and Mrs K 
would have declined the cover had Lloyds given them more or better information about it. Overall, I consider that Mr H and Mrs K would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought it was. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H and Mrs K.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
Lloyds doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr H and Mrs K paid. My reasons 
are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
The representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary they said Mr H and Mrs K should get back all the money that was paid for the 
policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr H and Mrs K about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr H and Mrs K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission. It is further argued 
a refund of all premiums should be paid.  
But in this case, Lloyds has told us that the commission for Mr H and Mrs Ks PPI was less 
than half of what was paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Lloyds has worked this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in this case was less 
than half the cost of the PPI.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipAs thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Lloyds needed to tell Mr H and Mrs K about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Lloyds treated Mr 
H and Mrs K unfairly. 
This means Lloyds doesnt need to pay Mr H and Mrs K back any of the commission that 
was paid for the PPI. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr H and Mrs Ks complaint and so I 
havent directed any compensation to be paid in respect of that. 
And because Ive decided that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr H and Mrs K paid for the 
PPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman