DRN-4081743
The complaint
Miss N complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed her accounts. 
What happened
Miss N had a current account, three savings accounts and a credit card account with 
Santander.
In December 2018 and December 2019 Santander reviewed Miss Ns accounts as part of its 
Know Your Customer (KYC) process and asked her to provide information about how she 
was operating her accounts. 
In February 2021, Santander reviewed Miss Ns accounts again. Whilst it completed its 
review Santander blocked all of Miss Ns accounts  this meant Miss N couldnt access the 
funds in any of her accounts or use her credit card.  Following this Santander decided to 
close Miss Ns accounts. The bank gave Miss N two months notice that it intended to close 
her credit card, however, she wasnt able to use the account during the notice period. 
Santander closed all of Miss Ns other accounts immediately and released the balances of 
the account to Miss N.
Miss N complained to Santander about the closure of her accounts and asked it why it had 
closed her accounts. Santander didnt provide Miss N with much information. The bank said 
it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the account and 
relevant regulations when it had closed Miss Ns accounts.
Miss N wasnt happy with the banks response and brought her complaint to this service. 
She explained that at the time Santander closed her accounts she was overseas, dealing 
with a bereavement and unwell with Covid. She said that the immediate closure of her 
accounts meant her direct debits went unpaid which impacted her credit rating negatively 
and bills went unpaid. So, this made an already very difficult situation more challenging 
especially as she wasnt able to sort out new accounts from abroad.
Miss N also explained that said her mobile phone was disconnected as her phone contract 
was paid via direct debit from the account Santander closed. She also said that shed lost 
out on the opportunity to buy another property in the UK because her credit rating was 
impacted by Santanders actions, so she wasnt able to obtain a mortgage at a reasonable 
rate. Overall, she said that the whole experience had been upsetting and stressful for her. 
And believes that Santander discriminated against her and closed her accounts because she 
is an Iranian citizen. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ns complaint. He said Santander shouldnt have 
closed Miss Ns account without notice and recommended Santander pay Miss N £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused her. Miss N didnt respond to the 
investigators view. Santander disagreed and said it had closed Miss Ns accounts in line 
with the terms and conditions of the accounts. And in accordance with the relevant 
regulations. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. On 15 March 2023 I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
I can see Miss N feels very strongly about her complaint. Thats clear from whats shes said 
to us and to Santander. Whilst I appreciate Miss Ns frustration, its important to point out 
that the only thing in question here is whether Santander has done what it should have done. 
And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Ill deal first with Santanders decision to block and review Miss Ns accounts. Santander has 
important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to 
customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is 
opened. To comply with its obligations Santander may need to review an account and/or 
restrict its customers access. The bank is also entitled to ask questions about payments into 
and out of an account in order to comply with these obligations.  
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Miss Ns accounts and ask her for information about how she was 
operating her accounts. Santander has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I 
accept that it was. The information Santander was asking Miss N to provide is fairly standard 
information that banks, and other financial businesses are required to have in order to 
adhere to the Know Your Customer (KYC) responsibilities (also known as Customer Due 
Diligence or CDD), as set out by the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority. So, whilst I 
accept this caused Miss N inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated her unfairly when it 
blocked her accounts and asked her to provide information.
I understand Miss N wants Santander to explain the reason it applied the blocks to her 
accounts. But Santander doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. Its under no obligation to tell Miss N the reasons behind the account review and 
block, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
Miss N this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Ill next deal with Santanders decision to close Miss Ns accounts without notice. Its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that 
in a legitimate manner, this service wont usually intervene.  
Santander has provided some further details of its decision making process, Im sorry but I 
cant share this information with Miss N due to its commercial sensitivity. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Santanders decision around closing Miss Ns account was unfair. Im 
satisfied here that the banks decision to stop providing Miss N with banking facilities was 
reached legitimately and fairly. 
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed Miss Ns accounts immediately. Having looked at all the evidence, 
including how Miss N was operating her accounts, the terms of the accounts, and relevant 
regulations, in my view that wasnt unreasonable. So, I cant say the bank has treated 
Miss N unfairly when it closed her accounts immediately.
I know Miss N says that she is a victim of discrimination by Santander. And believes the 
bank closed her accounts on the grounds of her being an Iranian citizen. While I can 
appreciate this is her perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken place  only the courts have the power to decide this. I have, however, considered the 
relevant law in relation to what Miss N has said when deciding what I think is the fair and 
reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 
2010 (The Act). And after looking at all the evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
this was the case. So, I havent found that Santander decided to close the accounts for an 
improper reason. I acknowledge what Miss N says about others having similar experiences. 
But I cant comment on that. I am only concerned with the facts of this complaint. 
I appreciate that the closure of Miss Ns accounts caused Miss N a great dela of trouble and 
upset. The timing of Santanders actions was unfortunate. Miss N was overseas unwell and 
coping with a bereavement when she discovered her accounts had been closed. So, I can 
understand why she found this experience with Santander stressful and upsetting. But as 
Ive already explained financial businesses have a legal obligation to comply with various 
laws and regulations. Ive seen the evidence provided by Santander and I can see that in 
reviewing and closing the accounts Santander were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. And Im satisfied 
that it closed the accounts line with the terms and conditions. So, I dont believe Santander 
acted inappropriately and treated Miss N unfairly in taking the actions it did.
In summary, I appreciate that it was upsetting and stressful for Miss N when Santander 
blocked and then closed her accounts without notice. So, I realise Miss N will be 
disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of 
compensation for that, since I dont believe Santander have treated Miss N unfairly.
Santander didnt respond. Miss N asked for more time to consider what I had said in my 
provisional decision, which was given to her, but she didnt provide any more information.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should not be upheld for 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of 
this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman