DRN-3079097
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Es complaint is about the handling of a claim they made on their home 
insurance policy with Fairmead Insurance Limited. They are unhappy about how long the 
claim for fire damage to their home has taken.
I will refer to all actions taken by the various representatives of Fairmead as having been 
undertaken by it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out a home insurance policy alongside their mortgage in February 2011. 
The policy covered the building for £107,672 and didnt include any cover for its contents. 
The policy was renewed thereafter.
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs Es home suffered a major fire caused by a faulty electrical 
appliance. Fairmead appointed a firm of loss adjusters and the claim was accepted. The loss 
adjuster concluded the property likely needed to be demolished and rebuilt as the fire had 
gutted the inside and it was likely it had weakened the external walls. However, this would 
be subject to a structural engineer assessing the property.
Mr and Mrs E appointed a loss assessor to deal with the claim on their behalf.
Initially Mr and Mrs E were told the policy didnt provide for them to have alternative 
accommodation while their claim was ongoing. However, this was a mistake and it was 
corrected the following day. They were housed in a hotel as a temporary measure, and £50 
compensation was paid to them as an apology for the mistake. It was determined that a 
rental property should be arranged for 12 months. Unfortunately, there were some delays in 
a property being arranged, which were attributable to both Fairmead and Mr and Mrs E 
being unable to find time to inspect potential properties. They moved into a rental property a 
couple of months after the fire.
Before investigations into the stability of the property could be completed an asbestos survey 
needed to be done. This confirmed at the beginning of May 2018 that there was asbestos in 
the property and that it needed to be removed before any reinstatement could start. 
Mr and Mrs Es loss assessor asked to be allowed to arrange the asbestos removal and 
Fairmead agreed. The removal was arranged by the loss assessor in the middle of June 
2018. Mr E has told us that during the removal process many damaged contents items were 
removed from the property and left in an outbuilding and in the garden.
The structural engineer determined that the main structure of the building remained intact 
and could be salvaged, with a full internal strip-out and restoration being necessary. The 
garage and conservatory needed to be completely replaced. It was suggested that the 
remainder of the roof needed to be removed and temporary sheeting (a tin hat) be installed 
to keep the property water-tight. 
During this time the loss assessor was discussing the claim with Fairmead. It asked that it be 
given control of the repairs, including its appointed surveyor make the decisions about the 
design of the repair. In doing so, the loss assessor was effectively asking Fairmead to cash 
settle the complaint. Fairmead was willing to settle the claim on this basis and so decided 
that it should be left to the loss assessor to determine what, if anything, was needed to 
protect the property. This was discussed with the loss assessor in the summer of 2018 and it 
confirmed that it didnt think any temporary works were needed as any damage from the 
property being exposed would already have happened. 
In the middle of July 2018 Fairmead and the loss assessor met to discuss the repairs. A 
schedule of works was agreed. The loss assessor them put this out to tender. This was in 
the middle of August 2018. The loss assessor reported back to Fairmead about a month 
later, recommending a contract with a builder who had priced the repairs at approximately 
£112,000 plus VAT. 
This quote was higher than the sum assured on the policy and this caused Fairmead some 
concern. However, ultimately, as the percentage of underinsurance was small, it didnt affect 
the claim. That said, Fairmead did have some concerns about the tenders that had been 
received, as for example, one didnt include an estimate for the time it would take to 
complete the repairs and the other included activities that had already been completed. 
It is not clear from the contemporaneous evidence provided by Fairmead when or why it 
decided to look into settling the claim by diminution in value (DMV), although it appears that 
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage lender may have been involved in this decision as an interested 
party. A DMV settlement is where a claim is settled in cash for an amount determined by 
deducting the value of the property in its damaged state, from its value immediately before 
the fire. This option was being discussed with the loss assessor by early November 2018 
and the loss assessor didnt consider this was a reasonable approach to the claim. Fairmead 
confirmed that three estate agents valuations for the property pre and post loss needed to 
be obtained in order to calculate its offer. The loss assessor was asked to provide this 
information, but it didnt, so Fairmead attempted to do so itself.
Unfortunately, it appears that there were difficulties in obtaining estate agents estimates. 
Ultimately, only one was produced and it took until the second half of February 2019 for the 
information to be received. The estate agent valued the property at £80-85,000 before the 
fire and £35-40,000 in its damaged state.
Around the same time, Mr and Mrs E were contacted by the local council and told they had 
to clear the contents items from the outbuilding and garden, as they were an environmental 
health issue. They were given a date in the middle of February 2019 to clear the site and 
deal with the vermin problem. Fairmeads records indicate that the loss assessor was 
arranging for this to be done, but it appears that was not the case, as Mr E ended up hiring a 
skip and clearing the site himself in the early part of March 2019.
An early indication of the DMV offer was given to the loss assessors in early March 2019 - 
£45,000 less the amount it had paid out on the claim to date  a little over £25,000. It was 
confirmed that the offer would have to be approved by the underwriters and the mortgage 
lender before any settlement was made. This resulted in concerns being raised between 
Fairmead and the lender about settling the claim on a DMV basis. The loss assessor was 
approached and asked whether the contractor could reassess the rebuild costs so that the 
costs would be economic. 
The loss assessor did what was asked and the claim settlement changed from a DMV basis 
to a repair basis. The first payment was made to the loss assessor, which was arranging the 
repairs, in September 2019 and repairs started.  Mr and Mrs E have confirmed they were 
informed by the loss assessor that the repairs were complete by the middle of December 
2019, but they were unable to access the property until early 2020. When they did, theyve told us that there were issues with the repairs and the property wasnt ready to be moved 
back into.
 
Mr and Mrs E complained to Fairmead about the time the claim was taking to settle in the 
late summer of 2018. These concerns were again raised in March 2020.  Fairmead didnt 
respond to these complaints and so Mr and Mrs E asked this service to consider their 
complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She was 
satisfied there were significant delays in the handling of the claim and for the upset and 
inconvenience this caused, Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs E £950. In addition, she 
recommended that Fairmead pay alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance for 
the period the repairs would take to do. In addition, Fairmead should pay the cost of the skip 
hire Mr E used to clear the contents from the garden and outbuilding. She concluded this as 
anything within the property would have needed to be removed as part of the building repair, 
and it had been Fairmeads contractors who had thrown the items out of the building, which 
resulted in Mr E having to dispose of them. 
Fairmead didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It highlighted the accommodation 
arrangements that had been in place until the middle of February 2020. It also said that 
much of the delays had been caused by the loss assessor acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs E. 
It also highlighted that there was no contents insurance associated with the policy, so it 
wasnt responsible for disposing of the damaged contents after the claim, which it had made 
the loss assessor aware of at an early stage.
Our investigator considered Fairmeads further comments, but they didnt change her 
conclusions. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be 
referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
I requested some further information from both parties, which where appropriate has been 
incorporated into the background facts. Fairmead also said that the delays in settling the 
claim had been caused by its discussions with Mr and Mrs Es lender. In addition, it said 
Mr and Mrs Es loss assessor had caused delays too as it had no response from it for 
months at one point. It said that once the loss assessor had got a quote that fell within the 
sum assured, the claim was settled. 
Relevant policy terms
Claim settlement
1. We will pay the cost to us of any necessary replacement or repair work carried out, 
provided that, immediately prior to the incidence giving rise to the damage, the buildings 
are in good repair.
2. We will either make a deduction for wear and tear from the cost to us of any necessary 
replacement or repair work or, at our option, pay the deduction in market value resulting 
from the damage, where:
i) Replacement or repair is not carried out; or
ii) Immediately prior to the incident giving rise to the damage, the buildings are not in 
good repair.
3. At our option we will not pay more than it would have cost us to repair the damage to the 
buildings if the repair work had been carried out without delay.You are jointly insured with the lender under this policy. Please note that the lenders 
interest will rank in priority to your interest in respect of all claims monies in instances 
where you and the lender have agreed to take a cash settlement instead of 
reinstatement of your home. If we or the lender are unable to contact you regarding 
settlement of a claim and we offer a choice of cash settlement instead of reinstatement 
the lender will be entitled to receive the cash settlement.

6.    If the damaged parts of the buildings cannot be economically repaired or replaced, we 
will pay you the difference between the market value of the buildings prior to the destruction 
or damage and the market value of the buildings following destruction or damage.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
Below is an excerpt.
The complaint Mr and Mrs E referred to this service was about delays in Fairmead settling 
their complaint. However, during her review of the complaint, our investigator identified areas 
where she was concerned about the settlement amount. As these issues have been raised, I 
will consider them now. 
Fairmead has confirmed that the allowances for Mr and Mrs E and their family being out of 
their home were paid until the middle of February 2020. Mr and Mrs E have confirmed that 
they were handed their keys back in January 2020 with a report of the repairs having been 
finished. I understand that they werent happy with the quality of the repairs and as such, 
they didnt move back into the house for some time. However, I cant take that into account 
when assessing what Fairmead should have paid, as the repairs were organised by 
Mr and Mrs Es loss assessor, so Fairmead isnt responsible for any issues caused by the 
quality of the repairs. The estimates for repairs produced for the loss assessor indicates that 
the repairs should have taken around three months to complete. From the point of the first 
payment for the repairs, Fairmead paid around five months worth of further accommodation 
costs, which went beyond the point that Mr and Mrs E should have been able to move back 
into their home in January 2020. So I am satisfied Fairmead paid sufficient for this aspect of 
the claim.
Our investigator also considered that Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs E the cost of the skip 
that was hired to clear the contents items that had been removed from the property and left 
in an outbuilding and in the garden. Fairmead has rightly commented that the insurance 
policy didnt cover contents and so technically the removal of the contents was not covered. 
That said, if the damaged contents were inside the property amongst the fallen ceilings and 
other buildings elements and needed to be removed as part of the stripping out works, I 
would have expected Fairmead to cover this cost. 
However, it appears that the items were removed from the property during the asbestos 
removal process. If these items needed to be removed in order for the asbestos to be 
removed, its likely the items were in close proximity to, and potentially contaminated by, the 
asbestos. As such, the items likely should have been removed as part of the asbestos 
removal process. This process was completed by contractors acting on Mr and Mrs Es part, 
as they were appointed by the loss assessor. Considering this, I am not persuaded that I can 
require Fairmead to pay any costs associated with the disposal of these items on top of what 
it has already paid.
I now come to the matter of the delays that occurred in the claim settlement. Fairmead has 
said the delays were caused by the lender and the loss assessor. I will consider the latter 
point first. I can see that there was a considerable amount of time when Fairmead was waiting for the loss assessor to arrange estate agents valuations. However, I am not 
persuaded that in the circumstances it was appropriate for Fairmead to require the loss 
assessor to provide this information. Fairmead wanted to settle the claim on a DMV basis 
and if it wanted to do that, it was responsible for obtaining the information it needed in order 
to do so. This is especially so as the loss assessor made it very clear early in this process 
that it disagreed with the proposed option for settlement. So I consider the delays in this part 
of the process cant be attributed to the loss assessor, but rather to Fairmead for not taking a 
reasonable approach to the evidence gathering exercise. 
As for the involvement of the lender. I requested that Fairmead provide its contact notes with 
the lender so that I could assess the lenders involvement and if it caused delays. Fairmead 
hasnt provided that information. So while it is clear that the lender was involved and possibly 
even expressed a preference for how the claim should be settled, I cant conclude that it was 
responsible for any delays. This is especially as it was Fairmeads responsibility to move the 
claim forward in a timely manner; if the lender wasnt contributing in a positive way, it was for 
Fairmead to move it on without that input.
The delays Fairmead has raised as having been caused by other parties, happened during 
the DMV process. I have considered it carefully and I think the entire period of this process 
was a delay that can be attributed to Fairmead. As we have previously pointed out, in a 
situation such as this, it would not be usual for a claim to be settled on a DMV basis  a 
consumer needs and wants their home repaired and where the sum assured is assessed as 
being correct or very close, that is not an unreasonable expectation. I will acknowledge this 
case is something of an oddity as the value of the property is significantly less than the 
amount it would cost to completely rebuild it. However, in that circumstance I wouldnt expect 
an insurer to immediately move to a DMV settlement  it should reasonably explore the 
options available to it. However, it doesnt appear that Fairmead did this until May 2019. This 
is between six and eight months after Fairmead started down the route of settling on a DMV 
basis. 
Mr and Mrs E were aware of this for at least the last six months of that process. I 
acknowledge that Fairmead was housing them throughout this period, but they would still 
need a home to return to at some point. Knowing that their insurer was planning to settle on 
a basis that meant they were unlikely to be able to repair their home, on which they still had 
an outstanding mortgage, would have been worrying to them. This would have been 
especially so in the last two months when theyd been told they would only receive around 
£25,000 in settlement of their claim. Mr and Mrs E need not have suffered this worry had 
Fairmead done in the autumn of 2018, what it did in May 2019. In light of this I consider a 
payment of £1,500 should be made to Mr and Mrs E for the upset and delays Fairmeads 
handling of the claim caused them.
Fairmead accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs E didnt make any further comment, 
but I am satisfied they received the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comment or evidence, I see no reason to change 
my conclusions.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I will require Fairmead Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr and Mrs E £1,500 in total (any sum already paid in this respect should be 
deducted from this sum) for the upset and inconvenience its handling of the claim caused 
them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman