DRN-3796457
The complaint
Mr B complains about his debit card with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) being declined 
and about the length of time he spent on their chat service when trying to raise a complaint. 
What happened
Mr B used his debit card and mobile in a shop to pay for a transaction, but this was declined. 
Mr B then contacted Barclays to query this and was informed this was down to a service 
outage. Mr B used the chat service to discuss this with Barclays but felt he was left waiting 
for a significant amount of time after raising a complaint.   
Barclays responded and explained Mr B called them a few days after his transaction was 
declined and, after they carried out checks, they found this was down to a global issue which 
was now resolved. Barclays said they apologised for any inconvenience. Barclays explained 
they gave this information to Mr B within a reasonable timeframe, but he decided to remain 
on the chat service to raise a complaint and he used the chat service again the following 
day. Barclays didnt uphold this part of the complaint as they said Mr B chose to raise a 
complaint through the chat service even though there were other channels available to raise 
a complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. She thought the apology already made by 
Barclays was reasonable and wouldnt be asking Barclays to take any further action. Mr B 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Theres no dispute between the parties in relation to the issue involving Mr Bs transactions 
being declined. Barclays accept there was a service outage which led to this. Barclays have 
apologised for any inconvenience caused. I can see Mr B originally raised this with Barclays 
through their chat service and they explained, around 30 minutes into the chat, that this was 
down to a global issue which was now resolved. Barclays say, regrettably, this can happen 
on occasions for various reasons which are outside their control. So, while I agree there has 
been an error here, I think the apology offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr B explains the situation was embarrassing for him and asks for compensation. The agent 
in the chat then offers to raise a complaint for Mr B. Mr B then says he wants to complain 
about the customer service he has received during the chat. The agent transfers Mr B to a 
colleague and the chat history shows they sent messages to Mr B but didnt receive a reply, 
so the agent leaves the chat. Mr B uses the chat service again the following day and says he 
wants compensation for the time spent on the chat service. I can see the total time spent on 
the chat service by Mr B was just under three hours. 
I understand why Mr B was left frustrated as I can see from the chat service history there 
were periods where Mr B was left waiting for an agent to respond. I understand Mr B wants 
compensation for the customer service issues he has experienced. I am sorry to disappoint 
Mr B, but I wont be asking Barclays to pay compensation. The chat service history shows 
Mr Bs main reason for first contacting Barclays was to find out why his transactions were 
declined. Barclays respond to this within a reasonable timeframe and Mr B then asks for 
compensation and the agent explains theyll raise a complaint. Mr B then asks for a 
complaint to be raised for the customer service received. So, I think its reasonable to say 
the conversation from this point relates to complaints handling.   
Complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in 
line with the law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to 
look into things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we 
can take into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. 
In this case, I cant say the issues which Mr B raises about the complaints handling are an 
extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint 
handling part of the complaint.      
The reason I say its not an extension is because the regulated activity here relates to Mr Bs 
transactions being declined  and Barclays address this within a reasonable timeframe 
during the chat service. So, I cant say the delay Mr B experiences when raising a complaint 
during the chat service is an extension of any issue relating to the regulated activity.  
Barclays say the chat service isnt a live service so customers wont get an instant response. 
They say when a customer uses this service to send a message it is routed to the next 
available agent who speak with multiple customers at once. Barclays say each message is 
technically still in a queue waiting to be picked up by an agent. This does appear to be the 
case as the chat history shows the agent leaves the conversation at various points and 
returns to respond to Mr Bs messages. Barclays say they changed the chat service some 
time ago so it allows customers to leave the mobile app and, as long as they have push 
notifications enabled in the mobile app, theyll get a notification letting them know an agent 
has responded. Barclays say this means customers wont need to wait in the mobile app. I 
think, going forward, if Mr B does need to contact Barclays through their chat service, 
enabling push notifications might be an option to avoid waiting on the mobile app.   
I understand Mr B will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why he was left frustrated at 
the length of time he had to wait. I wish to reassure Mr B Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman