DRN-4118929
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society havent been able to confirm what 
happened to a savings account balance he held with them in 1992.
What happened
Mr H asked Nationwide what had happened to a savings account balance he held with them 
in 1992. Mr H presented the passbook for the savings account, the last entry of which was 
dated in 1992 and which showed an account balance of approximately £50,000. Nationwide 
searched for the account but were unable to locate it. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded to Mr H and reiterated that they had no record of the account still 
being open with them. Nationwide also explained that they were confident the account hadnt 
fallen into a dormant status and believed the account must have been closed or transferred 
to another provider at some point in the past which they no longer had record of. Mr H wasnt 
satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Nationwides explanation 
of what may have happened was reasonable and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Nationwide have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such 
declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
In this instance, Nationwide have explained to my satisfaction that theyve tried to locate the 
account in question but have been unable to do so, meaning that I feel its most likely that 
the account isnt presently open with them.
Additionally, Nationwide have explained that theyre confident the account hasnt fallen into a 
state of dormancy with them. This is because an account can only fall into a state of 
dormancy with Nationwide if the account holder is no longer at the address Nationwide hold 
for them and cant be traced to any other address. And, because Mr H hasnt changed 
address since 1992, theres never been a time when Nationwide have needed to try to locate 
him such that the no trace condition that would allow the account in question to have fallen 
into a state of dormancy could have been met.
Of course, this begs the question as to what did happen to Mr Hs account. Unfortunately, it 
seems that it simply may not be possible to answer that question with any certainty. This is 
because, if the account was closed or transferred to another provider by Mr H at some time 
in the relatively distant past, its likely that Nationwide no longer have any record of this.
Financial institutions such as Nationwide are only required to retain certain information for a 
set amount of time  often six years. And so, if Mr H closed or transferred the account to 
another provider at some point in the past longer than six years ago  which seems both 
possible and plausible, given that the last action on record about the account is from over 
three decades ago  then it wouldnt be expected that Nationwide would continue to hold 
any information about such an action.
All of which means that the possibility suggested by Nationwide  that Mr H most likely either 
closed or transferred the account at some point in the relatively distant past  does seem 
plausible to me and does appear to be supported by Nationwide being unable to find any 
information about the account on their systems. 
I appreciate that this wont be what Mr H was hoping to hear. So, for the sake of clarity, Ill 
reiterate my reasoning on this matter.
1. If the account was still active with Nationwide, it would be expected that Nationwide 
would be able to find it. But Nationwide have searched for the account and cant find 
it. And Im satisfied that this most likely means that the account isnt still active with 
Nationwide. 
2. The account cant have fallen into a state of dormancy with Nationwide because the 
conditions needed as per Nationwides process for this to have happened  that Mr H 
moved address and that Nationwide were unable to locate him, having searched for 
him at a new address  have never been met.
3. Given that the account isnt a live account with Nationwide and hasnt fallen into a 
state of dormancy with them, its most likely that Mr H either closed or transferred the 
account at some point in the past. And, given that Nationwide have been unable to 
find any information about this account, I feel its most likely that this is because the 
act of closure or transference occurred at a time in the past such that Nationwide no 
longer hold any record of it. 
Mr H believes that the account was never closed or transferred and as such would like 
Nationwide to honour the balance of the passbook from the 1992 entry, adjusted for accrued 
interest. And Mr H may point out that because the passbook doesnt include any record of 
the account being closed or transferred that it must therefore still be a legitimate account, 
either active or dormant.  
But I feel its more plausible and likely to me that the account was closed or transferred and 
that this wasnt, for whatever reason, recorded in the passbook that Mr H holds, rather than it 
being the case that the account remains an active or dormant account and that Nationwide 
havent been able to find it. 
Furthermore, if we examine the potential course of action that Mr H would like me to instruct 
here  which would be for Nationwide to make a payment to Mr H equal to the balance of the 
account as it stood in 1992 adjusted for accrued interest  this doesnt seem fair to me.
I say this because this would involve me instructing Nationwide to make a payment for an account theyve searched for but have been unable to find, which never met the conditions 
necessary to allow it fall into a dormant status, and for which I feel a plausible and 
reasonable explanation exists which suggests that the account was either closed or 
transferred from Nationwide many years ago, such that the balance on the account in 1992 
shouldnt reasonably be considered as most likely still residing with Nationwide. 
Ultimately, it doesnt feel either fair or reasonable to me to instruct Nationwide to make the 
payment to Mr H as he would like here, given the circumstances of this complaint as Ive 
described them. And so, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr H was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
everything that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision here that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman