DRN-2481270
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited didnt give him a rebate of premiums for 
his private dental insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the customer service he received 
from AXA in relation to this.
What happened
Mr S held a private dental insurance policy with AXA. He renewed it on 22 September 2019.
Mr S says AXA shouldve given him a rebate of premiums because dental surgeries were 
closed between March and June 2020 due to the Covid-19 global pandemic. The World 
Health Organisation (WHO) declared it a pandemic on 11 March 2020. Mr S says AXA 
hasnt acted in line with regulatory guidance. Mr S also wasnt happy that AXA didnt call him 
back about his concerns when promised.
AXA says the closure of dental surgeries was outside of its control, as this happened due to 
the Covid-19 global pandemic. But it said emergency treatment was still available through 
the NHS, and this wouldve been covered under Mr S policy. AXA also said that Mr S had 
used the benefit under the policy for hygiene treatments and routine dental treatment. The 
relevant appointments took place in November 2019 and February 2020. So, any further 
treatment under this benefit wouldnt have been covered by the policy anyway.
When Mr S got in touch with AXA in June 2020 about his premiums, AXA explained about its 
customer promise that was in place. This meant that any reduction in claims costs 
compared to 2019 arising from delays in treatment due to the coronavirus crisis would be 
refunded in proportion to the subscription paid. This applied to all individual members who 
held the relevant policies. AXA has said it would review the data at the end of 2021, and this 
would be independently audited.
AXA said it responded to Mr S complaint appropriately, and it called him back when 
promised.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the issues were caused by the global 
pandemic, and this was outside of AXAs control. He also said Mr S had already reached the 
policy limit on routine treatment, so he wasnt impacted by the lack of routine treatment 
taking place  he wouldnt have been able to make a further claim for this under the policy. 
But the investigator said Mr S couldve still benefitted from the policy if hed needed any 
emergency dental treatment. 
The investigator also said that the regulatory guidance Mr S had referred to didnt mandate 
what specific action businesses had to take. So, our investigator didnt think there was 
anything else AXA needed to do. He also said AXA had called Mr S back when promised.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, he didnt think the investigator 
had correctly interpreted the regulatory guidance. He also maintains that he wouldnt have 
been able to benefit from the policy fully while the dental surgeries were closed.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All routine dental care in England was suspended between 25 March and 8 June 2020 due 
to the Covid-19 global pandemic. During that time emergency treatment was available 
through Urgent Dental Care (UDC) hub. It was unfortunate that the unprecedented 
circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic had an impact on available dental care. But I 
dont think this is something I can hold AXA responsible for, as the circumstances were 
outside of its control.
I also think its clear that Mr S has received benefit from his dental insurance policy with AXA 
during the policy year in dispute. Hed used the full annual benefit under hygiene treatments 
and routine dental treatment benefit. So, he wouldnt have been able to claim for any 
treatment under this benefit for the remaining policy year.
I accept that due to the restrictions, Mr S may have struggled to receive emergency dental 
treatment, had he needed it. But that doesnt mean it wasnt available. And Mr S policy 
covered emergency treatment. So, Mr S couldve benefitted from the policy even while 
routine dental care was suspended if he made an eligible claim.
I dont think AXA needs to specifically prove that there was emergency treatment available in 
the area where Mr S lived. I also havent seen anything to suggest Mr S sought emergency 
treatment but wasnt able to receive it.
Ive thought about the relevant regulatory guidance. And taking everything into account, I 
dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. Mr S made successful claims under 
his policy  up to the relevant annual limit  before the time period in dispute. So, hes 
benefitted from the policy. He also couldve made claims for emergency treatment while 
routine dental care was suspended, if hed needed to. 
AXA has also explained to Mr S about its customer promise in relation to the pandemic. 
AXA has acknowledged the impact of Covid-19 and it has explained to Mr S how it intends to 
pass on any financial benefit to customers like Mr S  AXA has explained how and when it 
intends to do this. So, I dont think that AXA has disregarded the guidance from the 
regulatory bodies. 
I also think AXA called Mr S back when promised, and it responded to his complaint within 
the promised timescale. Overall, I dont think theres anything else AXA needs to do, to put 
things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman