DRN-3697801
The complaint
Ms S complains Nationwide Building Society wont refund her for transactions she says she 
didnt make.
What happened
Ms S contacted Nationwide on 12 May 2022 to cancel her card and report several 
transactions as fraudulent. Nationwide investigated the fraud claim and declined to refund 
any of the payments Ms S was disputing.
Ms S complained to Nationwide, and it replied to say it had reviewed the online banking and 
card usage and decided no fraud had taken place. Unhappy with this response, Ms S 
brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Ms S complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator said the genuine card and personal identification number (PIN) had been used. 
The investigator couldnt see how a fraudster had been able to get hold of Ms S card on 
over 40 occasions and return it to her without her noticing. The investigator also said 
Nationwide had sent a message to Ms S mobile to confirm a payment, and shed responded 
to this message.
Ms S didnt agree with the investigators assessment. Ms S said she hadnt authorised any of 
the payments and hadnt given her card to anyone. Ms S said the payments didnt fit her 
usual pattern of spending.
Ms S wanted Nationwide to refund the money as she was struggling to care for her family 
because so much money was missing. Ms S asked for an ombudsman to review things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator. I realise this will come 
as a disappointment to Ms S, and Im very sympathetic to her situation, theres lots of money 
taken from her account she says she didnt authorise.
Where information is missing, incomplete or conflicting, I can decide complaints on a 
balance of probabilities, whats more likely to have happened than not.
I have to look at the evidence Ms S and Nationwide has sent in and come to a decision. And 
having looked at the information I have, I think its more likely than not Ms S authorised the 
payments.
As a general rule, its fair for Nationwide to hold Ms S liable for payments made from her 
account where the evidence suggests she authorised them. 
Ms S raised over 30 transactions as ones she didnt authorise, over a 12 month period. 
I dont intend to explain whether I think Ms S authorised each individual transaction, instead 
Ill look at a select set of transactions to help me decide whether its fair for Nationwide to 
hold Ms S liable for all the payments.
The first payment Ms S raised as fraudulent was on 2 June 2021, a cash machine 
withdrawal for £200. Ms S logged into her mobile banking on 2 June 2021 at 12.58 am. The 
transaction took place at 1.56 am.
Ms S logged into her mobile banking again at 10.59 pm. Im satisfied Ms S would have seen 
the £200 withdrawal when she logged in at 10.59 pm, but she didnt report to Nationwide this 
as an unrecognised transaction until over a year later.
Ms S also raised a £200 cash withdrawal on 1 August 2021 as fraudulent. This transaction 
was carried out at 7.07 pm. Ms S checked her mobile banking on 31 July 2021, and her 
balance would have been £200.
Ms S checked her mobile banking at 10.14 pm and 11.08 pm on 1 August 2021. Im satisfied 
Ms S would have seen both transactions, the credit of £200 and the withdrawal, leaving her 
account with a zero balance.
The cash machine withdrawal was the only transaction on that day. But, again, it was some 
considerable time later that Ms S raised this transaction as fraudulent.
Ms S also said a cash machine transaction on 1 October, at 8.51 am, for £200, was 
fraudulent. Ms S logged into her mobile banking, and checked her statement, at 6.51 am. 
Ms S had a balance of just over £300 at this time.
Ms S logged into her mobile banking, and again checked her statement, at 10.45 am. Again, 
Im satisfied Ms S would have seen the £200 withdrawal then. The withdrawal left Ms S with 
£10 in her account, but she didnt dispute the payment until much later.
Im satisfied all the payments above were carried out using Ms S genuine card and PIN. 
Because of this, and because Ms S was checking her mobile banking on a very regular 
basis, multiple times a day, Im satisfied, on balance, Ms S authorised these payments.
Not all the transactions were carried out using Ms S physical card. Ms S also disputed a 
payment to a money transfer company, for £122.99, on 6 December 2021. This payment 
was made online using Ms S card details.
Looking at Ms S statements for that day, Ms S transferred the exact amount, £122.99, from 
her savings to her current account, to allow the payment to be made. The transfer was made 
using Ms S mobile banking.
Ms S hasnt said anyone else had access to her phone, and Ms S hasnt said any of the 
transfers between her accounts werent made by her. Im satisfied Ms S made the transfer. 
And because Im satisfied Ms S made the transfer, of the exact amount, Im satisfied Ms S 
was aware of the payment to the money transfer company. I think its more likely Ms S 
authorised the payment to the money transfer company.The last set of payments Ms S disputed were on 11 and 12 May 2022. These payments 
were mobile to mobile payments, so again Ms S physical card wasnt used.
One of the payments was stopped by Nationwide as it looked out of place with Ms S usual 
transactions. Nationwide has provided evidence it sent a message to Ms S phone, the same 
number she called from when she set her complaint up at this service.
The message asked Ms S to confirm the payment, and Nationwide received a confirmation 
message back. Because of this, Nationwide allowed the payment to be made.
Ms S has said her phone was locked using a password and hasnt said she shared this 
password with anyone. Because the authorisation message was sent to, and replied from, 
Ms S phone number, Im satisfied, on balance, Ms S authorised this payment.
The rest of the transactions Ms S has raised as fraudulent are cash machine withdrawals, 
and they all follow a similar pattern to the three Ive mentioned earlier in my decision. The 
cash machine withdrawals are made and, shortly after, Ms S checks her mobile banking.
Ms S has said the spending didnt fit her usual pattern. The cash machine withdrawals were 
authorised by Ms S genuine card and PIN and werent every day, they were spread out, 
often weeks or months apart.
I dont think the cash machine withdrawals look out of place, so I wouldnt necessarily expect 
Nationwide to alert Ms S to them. 
The last two transactions did look out of place. They were mobile to mobile payments and for 
relatively large amounts. But Nationwide alerted Ms S to one of these payments, it sent her a 
message asking her to confirm whether the payment was genuine.
Nationwide received a message back to say the payment was genuine. Im satisfied 
Nationwide alerted Ms S to the payments that looked out of place and took steps to confirm 
they were genuine.
I realise Ms S is struggling financially now, because of the amount of money taken from her 
account. But I have to look at whether its fair for Nationwide to hold Ms S liable for these 
payments.
And because I think Ms S authorised these payments, I think it is fair for Nationwide to hold 
her liable and refuse to refund the payments shes disputed.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Ms S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman