DRN-3798043
The complaint
Miss P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund payments she says she 
didnt make from her account.
What happened
Miss P says that she disputes making 11 payments using online banking which came to over 
£4,300. She also says she doesnt recognise credits of over £900. The payments out took 
place on six different days starting on 29 April 2022 and ending on 7 June 2022. And the 
credits were all made on 6 June 2022 and there were payments out that day too. Miss P 
says her mobile phone must have been hacked.
NatWest said it wouldnt be refunding this money. In a final response it stated that Miss P 
had called on 10 June 2022 and said that she had been the victim of a scam. And that it had 
attempted to get her money back and wasnt able to do so. It didnt consider that Miss P had 
taken sufficient care when making the payments.
Our investigator clarified the position. Miss P told her that she hadnt authorised any of the 
payments and hadnt been persuaded into making them or allowing anyone else to. Miss P 
said that no one had access to her mobile phone, and it was kept safe with a passcode that 
shed not given to anyone else. And was locked in a bag when she couldnt have it with her 
at work. Miss P explained how the worry of what happened had affected her and her health. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the 
information from NatWest showed that no other device than the one registered for online 
banking by Miss P had been used to access the account for these payments. There was no 
sign of any sim swap or of a change in device before the payments were made. Miss P had 
used the account normally in between these disputed payments and the device involved for 
genuine payments too. Miss P couldnt recall any specific time when someone might have 
been able to see her phone passcode and explained she lived alone. Our investigator noted 
the time period over which the payments were made. And that someone would have had to 
be able to take and replace the phone without Miss P knowing. So, she thought that Miss P 
had made the payments or allowed someone else to.
Miss P didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that she worked 
hard for her money like everyone else. She was one hundred percent sure she hadnt 
authorised these payments. Miss P hadnt been checking her account very often and she 
was only alerted to what happened by NatWest. She didnt have any other evidence to 
provide but had been badly affected by what happened and by hearing what our investigator 
thought about her case. She was honest and wouldnt think to attempt a scam herself. And 
she didnt know where to turn for help.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the amount of money at stake for Miss P and know from what she says what a 
significant effect this has had on her. I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im 
thinking about what is most likely based on the information that is available.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with the account details. And if the payments 
werent authorised Miss P wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
NatWest has provided the online logs showing access to the account and the payments. Im 
satisfied that the payments were originated after successful log ins to Miss Ps account. All 
the ones in dispute were online and I am satisfied that there were authenticated.
NatWest hasnt been able to provide a copy of a call recording when it says Miss P told it 
that shed been the victim of a scam. I note she wrote an email to it on 22 June 2022 asking 
to be reimbursed and NatWest took it that this was the basis. But shes been clear to this 
service that the way she says this happened is that an unknown third party made the 
payments and that she wasnt tricked into doing so.
Ive looked further at the online logs for her account which NatWest has explained. As it says 
only one genuine device was used to access the account for these payments. There is no 
evidence to support Miss Ps sim card being swapped or that her phone was hacked. I also 
take into account the time over which these payments took place and the general pattern of 
her normal use of the account in between.
Miss P did receive what I understand to be income from employment during the period. And 
shes also referred to being repaid for money shed given to others. She was asked by our 
investigator to confirm exactly which money paid in and out of the account she disputed. And 
shes referred to the disputed credits on 6 June 2022 which were then paid away. The other 
days though when disputed payments were made also seem to correspond to times when 
money had been paid into her account including from her employment. So as an example, 
on 1 June 2022 her account had received credits of £389 and £400 (that she hadnt 
disputed) and then there were two disputed payments from her account that day for the 
same amounts.  But thered also been a credit of £392 that day too and there was still 
money of some £400 in the account balance at the end of that day. My point is that whoever 
was making these payments seemed to be able to anticipate when money was due and also 
didnt always take as much of it out as fast as possible.
Miss P has explained she kept her details safe and didnt give these to anyone. I also think 
she had a reasonable opportunity over the period of this dispute to notice what was 
happening on her account particularly when shed been expecting payments and given the 
amount of money involved. I take into account the time over which this happened, the lack of 
any evidence of a third party taking over her phone and meaning that someone else would 
have needed to have physical access to it to make these payments. Im afraid Im struggling 
to find that plausible on all these occasions without Miss Ps involvement. And so, I know 
shell be very disappointed when I say that I think that she most likely consented to these 
payments and that this could have involved her allowing someone else to have access to her 
account both to receive and make payments. So, I think its reasonable for NatWest to hold 
her responsible for what happened on her account.I know our investigator has already signposted possible support available for Miss P given 
what shes said about her related health issues and her financial problems.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman