DRN-3326661
Complaint
Ms T is unhappy that CB Payments Ltd didnt do more to protect her from fraud.
Background
Ms T has an account with CB Payments. In June 2019, she was persuaded to invest her 
savings in cryptocurrency. She was concerned about her financial security following divorce 
and hoped to earn a healthy return. She was persuaded to deposit funds into her CB 
Payments account which was then converted into Bitcoin in her Coinbase account. She was 
then persuaded to transfer Bitcoin on from her Coinbase account. Unfortunately, the person 
to whom she transferred the Bitcoin wasnt a legitimate broker, but a scammer.
Ms T was unhappy that CB Payments hadnt done more to protect her from fraud. She thinks 
it should now pay her a refund. When it declined to do so, she referred her complaint to this 
service. It was allocated to an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator noted that 
CB Payments was an authorised electronic-money institution and so we could only 
investigate its acts and omissions in relation to that authorisation. Any aspects of Ms Ts 
complaint that should properly be directed to Coinbase were outside of this services 
jurisdiction.
The Investigator said that CB Payments needed to take reasonable steps to protect Ms T 
from the risk of financial harm and fraud. This would include being on the lookout for 
transactions that were unusual or out of character and taking appropriate preventative action 
in response. The Investigator wasnt persuaded that the transactions ought to have alerted it 
to the possibility that she was at risk of financial harm. He looked at the activity on Ms Ts 
account and thought it very much looked typical of the way a CB Payments customer would 
use their account. 
Ms T disagreed with the Investigators opinion. She said that, as a matter of course, CB 
Payments shouldve had stronger controls and checks in place for any customer opening a 
new account. She said that no customer uses CB Payments for any purpose other than 
conduiting funds into a Bitcoin wallet maintained by Coinbase. She said that investing in 
cryptocurrency is high risk and any new customer should have a series of questions asked 
to rule out the most common circumstances under which they might be falling victim to a 
scam.
Because Ms T disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, Ive taken into 
account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Having done so, Im not persuaded 
that CB Payments has done anything wrong here.
Its common ground that Ms T authorised the payment in question, albeit I accept that this 
was the start of a chain of events that ultimately led to her losing cryptocurrency to a 
scammer. This was, therefore, an authorised payment and so under the relevant rules and 
regulations, she is presumed liable at first instance.
However, good industry practice required that CB Payments be on the lookout for account 
activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. This would include 
monitoring account activity for transactions that were unusual or out of character. In some 
circumstances, it was expected to take additional steps, or carry out additional checks, 
before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Unfortunately, Im not persuaded that CB Payments wouldve had any reasonable basis for 
intervening and questioning this specific payment before allowing it to be processed. 
Accepting transfers of fiat currency and facilitating the purchase of bitcoin is characteristic of 
the way CB Payments customers would be expected to use their e-wallets. In addition to 
that, the cryptocurrency that was being purchased was being added to Ms Ts account with 
Coinbase. She was asking for a payment to be facilitated between two accounts that she 
controlled, which wouldve reduced the concern that Ms T was at risk of financial harm.
Finally, to identify a payment as being out of character requires a meaningful payment 
history to deviate from. In this instance, Ms T had only recently opened an account and so it 
would be more difficult for CB Payments to have identified any individual payment as being 
out of character.
Ms T has set out what she considers a firm ought to do in respect of checks and controls. 
This includes a minimum level of questioning that a new customer should be asked before 
being allowed to make payments. I recognise that, with the benefit of hindsight, this may 
have prevented Ms T from falling victim to the scam, but Im not persuaded it wouldve been 
proportionate to have asked her these questions simply because she was a new customer.
Ms Ts seems to be suggesting that there should be a presumption that any payment 
instruction received from a new customer should be treated as fraudulent. I accept what she 
has said about the inherent risks associated with investing in cryptoassets. However, I dont 
think it follows that all transactions pursuant to an investment in cryptocurrency are more 
likely than not connected with an attempted fraud or that individuals who want to invest their 
money in cryptoassets shouldnt be free to do so.
I know that Ms T has fallen victim to a cynical and manipulative scam here and she has my 
sympathy. But regrettably, I dont find that there are any grounds to uphold her complaint. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman