DRN-4385932
The complaint
Mr S complains that Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE declined to declare his plane a 
total loss after his claim for damage to the engine of his plane. Allianz have made an offer in 
lieu of repairs of £9421.02 instead.
What happened
Mr S had a policy with Allianz to cover his light aircraft. The aircraft was insured for £30000 
in the event of total loss. 
In August 2022 he experienced difficulties whilst in the air and made an emergency landing 
at a local airport. After landing he discovered that the engine was damaged beyond repair 
and the aircraft needed to be dismantled and removed. 
Mr S made a claim under his insurance policy and was offered a settlement for repairs  of 
£9421.01 less the policy excess of £1000. 
Mr S was unhappy with this as he thought that he should receive the sum for total loss as 
the aircraft was no longer usable. 
Allianz disagreed and so Mr S brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ss complaint but he thought Allianz had acted 
fairly and within the terms of the policy.  
 Mr S disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Allianz have fairly applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
The policy says at Clause 1.2:
The insurer will not pay for 
(a) wear and tear, deterioration, breakdown, defect or failure howsoever caused in any 
Unit of the Aircraft and the consequences there of within that Unit;
(b) damage to any Unit of the Aircraft by anything which has a progressive or cumulative 
effect, but damage attributable to a single recorded event is covered. For a single 
recorded incident to be covered with respect to an engine Unit the damage must be 
of such severity that it requires the engine Unit to be immediately withdrawn from 
service upon first landing of the Aircraft to which it is attached.
Following the incident, Mr S sent his engine to an engine builders to establish the cause of 
the failure. They confirmed the engine had sustained a mechanical failure due to the No.3 
cylinder piston failing as a result of a fatigue crack. As a result of this, further internal 
damage was caused to the engine, the propellor oil system and the propellor governor.  
Allianzs aviation surveyor agreed with this and said that the damage was excluded under 
clause 1.2 of the policy as the fatigue crack which led to the mechanical failure of the piston 
was excluded as wear and tear.
Mr S argues that although it is agreed that the piston pin suffered a fatigue crack, the 
incident comes within clause 1(2)b as a single recorded incident with damage so severe that 
it required the engine to be immediately withdrawn from service. As such, he thinks that the 
matter should be settled as a total loss. 
I have thought about this argument, and Ive read Mr Ss submissions about statutory 
interpretation. However, I cant agree. 
The two exclusion limbs of clause 1.2 are separate and refer to different situations, and so if 
the damage is excluded under one of the limbs, the second limb wouldnt apply. 
Clause 1.2(a) is clear that wear and tear is excluded, and so is any consequent damage 
caused within the unit as a result. Unit is defined in the policy as a part or an assembly of 
parts (including any sub-assemblies) which has been assigned an Overhaul Life as a part of 
an assembly. Nevertheless, an engine complete with all parts normally attached when 
removed for the purpose of overhaul or replacement shall together constitute a single Unit."
Its established that there is a fatigue crack to the piston  which is wear and tear - and that 
this impacted the functioning of the engine, caused consequent damage to other parts of the 
engine and resulted in the need for an urgent landing. 
And so Im satisfied that Allianz fairly excluded the claim finding that the damage to the 
engine was as a result of a fatigued part, impacting the whole engine, or unit. A fatigue 
crack is something that appears over time as a result of use, rather than as a result of an 
event. And so I think its fair to exclude the damage to the piston, and any consequent 
damage to the rest of the engine under paragraph 1.2(a). 
Even though I dont think clause 1.2(b) is relevant given that I consider the exclusion under 
1.2(a) has been fairly applied, I have also thought about what Mr S has said. 
My view is that Clause 1.2(b) is also an exclusion clause  but with an exception. It excludes 
cover for damage to any unit of the aircraft by anything with a gradual or cumulative effect  
which may be something for example like a build-up of debris or corrosion. 
However, it allows for an exception to this exclusion where there is a single recorded event 
that led to the damage - so for example a bird strike or a lightning strike which may cause 
the damage suddenly and unexpectedly to, for example,  a propellor, causing the aircraft to 
have to be landed and taken out of service. I cant fairly say that this is the case here, as 
whilst Mr S had not previously been aware of the fatigue crack in his piston, and so he felt it 
was sudden and unexpected, it was something that occurred gradually over time in a unit of 
the engine, rather than being a sudden event that happened to the engine. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Allianzs decision was fair in respect of the total loss.     
Allianz have confirmed that there is cover under the policy for the damage to the propellor oil 
system and governor. They advised that Mr S could arrange for these repairs to be 
completed himself and submit an invoice or accept a cash settlement for the repairs. A 
settlement of £8421.02 was offered which comprised of recovery from the airport, damage to the propellor, and estimated assembly costs, minus the policy excess, which totals 
£8421.02. As Mr S hasnt complained about the settlement offer for repairs, I havent 
considered this as part of my decision and it remains for Mr S to decide whether to accept 
this settlement offer
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about  and so I wont be asking Allianz Global Corporate 
& Specialty SE to do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman