DRN-2315680
The complaint
Mr U has complained that One Sure Insurance Limiteds actions caused his commercial 
vehicle policy to be cancelled. 
What happened
Mr U bought a policy through One Sure which was set up to start on 22 February 2020.    
One Sure said it received some information it needed from Mr U on 22 February, but as 
some information was outstanding it tried to call him on 24 February and left a voicemail. It 
said it also chased again on 13 March. One Sure said the insurer was going to cancel the 
policy due to some claims it thought Mr U hadnt told it about. One Sure clarified which 
claims it was aware of and the insurer decided to continue with the policy. One Sure said it 
chased Mr U again for the information that was outstanding on 23 March and on 9 April the 
insurer agreed Mr U could have another seven days to provide it. 
One Sure said Mr U was also provided additional time on 16 April. On 17 April One Sure 
said it emailed the insurer the documents they required. One Sure said the file it sent to the 
insurer was too large, but that wasnt picked up as the notification goes to a central server 
rather than the employee who sends the message. One Sure said it sent the documents 
again on 21 April, but the insurer sent Mr U a letter on 29 April to say his policy had been 
cancelled. 
Mr U complained to One Sure. He said hed sent over the documents hed been asked for 
and thought it was One Sures fault the documents hadnt been received by the insurer.
One Sure said it tried to help Mr U. It said the insurer initially said it would look to reinstate 
the policy but then agreed it would record it as being cancelled by Mr U. One Sure also 
offered to waive any fees associated with the policy, so Mr U only paid for the time he was 
on risk. 
Mr U was unhappy with One Sures response and brought his complaint to our service. He 
said One Sure had told him to speak to the insurer who then sent him back to One Sure. He 
said One Sures email to the insurer hadnt been sent properly. 
One Sure said Mr Us deadline for providing documents had been extended a number of 
times and hed had two months to provide them. So, it didnt think it should be to blame for 
the insurer cancelling his policy. It said it was no longer offering to waive all its fees, but it 
would reduce the outstanding balance of £475.58 by half. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Us complaint and recommended it be upheld. He thought 
One Sures email hadnt gone through to the insurer on 17 April and that it should have done 
more to make sure the second one had been received on 21 April. He thought Mr U should 
only pay for the outstanding debt on a previous policy and for the time hed been on risk on 
this policy. He said that meant One Sure should refund Mr U £116.86, plus interest. 
He also recommended One Sure pay Mr U an additional £100 for his distress and 
inconvenience.
 
Mr U accepted the investigators recommendation but One Sure didnt. It said Mr U hadnt 
got in touch on many of the occasions it had asked him to, and it was also struggling to get 
in touch with the insurer who wasnt taking inbound calls at that time. One Sure said that the 
inconvenience had been caused by Mr U not providing the documents earlier. It also said it 
had tried to resolve things by offering to waive its fees and getting the insurer to agree to 
record the cancellation as being done by Mr U. It asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that One Sure gave Mr U a number of opportunities and extensions to provide 
information. However, One Sure did agree to those extensions and Mr U ultimately provided 
the information hed been asked for within that time. As the information was to be sent to the 
insurer through One Sure, I think One Sure was responsible for providing that information to 
the insurer. And I dont think its fair and reasonable for One Sure to say Mr Us responsible 
for what went wrong because he hadnt engaged in providing the documents earlier. 
It seems the document One Sure sent to the insurer was too big, which means it wasnt 
received by the insurer. I appreciate One Sure didnt pick that up straight away due to its 
computer system. But I dont think thats Mr Us fault. And as far as he was concerned hed 
provided information within the time he was allowed. 
One Sure said it sent the documents again on 21 April when it realised the previous file was 
too big. It said it struggled to check the documents had been received as the insurer wasnt 
taking incoming calls at that time. However, it seems the insurer again didnt receive the 
documents and issued a letter of cancellation. 
I can understand this was a busy and difficult period for One Sure, especially as it wasnt 
able to contact the insurer by phone. But as One Sure was responsible for sending the 
documents to the insurer and Mr U provided his documents in time, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr U to pay any fees associated with the cancellation of the policy. I 
therefore think One Sures original offer was fair and reasonable and I dont think it should 
have then reduced its offer, simply because Mr U exercised his right to bring his complaint to 
our service for review. For that reason, I think its fair and reasonable that Mr U only pays for 
the time he was on risk. 
It seems from the amount Mr U paid to One Sure some of it was for the balance of a 
previous policy. I havent considered that as it doesnt form part of this complaint. Mr U paid 
One Sure £598.36. The time on risk and previous balance total £481.5. This means         
One Sure should refund Mr U £116.86. Due to the time hes been without the money One 
Sure should add interest at a rate of 8% per year simple calculated from the date the policy 
was cancelled to the date it makes payment.  
While I can understand One Sures point that Mr U had a lot of time to provide his 
documents and only did so towards the end of the deadline, I think it would produce a fair 
and reasonable outcome for One Sure to pay Mr U £100 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. I say that because when Mr U complained, One Sure replied to say the 
reason the policy was cancelled was because he hadnt provided the correct documents. I 
dont think this was helpful, as the reason the policy was cancelled was because One Sure 
hadnt been able to send the documents through to the insurer. One Sures system notes 
also confirms that it told Mr U hed need to speak to the insurer, when the insurer said all 
contact needed to be through One Sure. Mr U has provided a copy of his phone records to 
show he needed to make a number of calls to try to sort things out. So, I think its fair and reasonable for One Sure to compensate Mr U for having to make a number of phone calls 
and being given the wrong reason for his policy being cancelled.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require One Sure Insurance Limited to:
Refund Mr U £116.86, plus interest at a rate of 8% per year simple calculated from 
the date the policy was cancelled to the date it makes payment.  
Pay Mr U £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
If One Sure Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr U how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr U a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman