DRN-2252904
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt helped him get back money he says he lost 
to a scam.
What happened
Mr D found a car for sale online and contacted the seller. He believed the car was being sold 
by a dealership Ill refer to as B. He arranged to see the car and was given an address. He 
met up with the seller as planned and decided to go ahead with the purchase. That was on 
the basis that he was told the car was in good working order and that a number of problems 
had recently been repaired. Along with the car he was promised a six month warranty.
Mr D paid for the car by way of bank transfer and sent £3,000 to the account details provided 
on 10 November 2019. The car was delivered to Mr Ds address and he updated the 
registration with the DVLA.
Mr D didnt drive the car right away as his wife was in hospital. But once he did start driving 
it, he noticed some problems. In particular, there was something wrong with the gearbox and 
there was a warning message on the dashboard which told Mr D to take the car to a garage.
The warranty for the car also hadnt been provided by the seller at this stage and so Mr D 
was chasing it up. It was eventually provided but when Mr D tried to use it to cover the 
repairs the car needed, the warranty company said it wasnt valid as it was purchased after 
the problems developed.
Mr D was unhappy with the car and the situation overall and so he started to pursue the 
seller for a refund. But the seller began ignoring Mr D and he couldnt get in touch with them. 
Mr D looked online for different contact information for B and found an alternative phone 
number. But when he got in touch B said it hadnt ever sold him a car and it had never 
received any money from Mr D.
Mr D was also in contact with the warranty company and it suggested that B hadnt paid for 
the warranty; a company with a different name had.
At this point Mr D thought hed been scammed given the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
and the seller of the car seemed to have hidden or lied about who they were. He contacted 
HSBC and told them hed been the victim of a scam.
HSBC looked at what had happened and contacted the bank Mr D sent the money to, in an 
attempt to recover it. But the receiving bank said all the money had already been withdrawn 
from the account. HSBC said it couldnt do any more as it believed Mr D had a dispute with 
the seller over the quality of the goods hed received; it didnt think hed been the victim of a 
scam. It said it wouldnt refund any of the money hed sent for the purchase of the car.
Mr D was unhappy with the banks response and brought his complaint to our service. He 
still felt hed been scammed and also said that the bank ought to have told him that the 
name on the receiving account didnt match the name he intended to pay.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
believed Mr D had a civil dispute with the seller about the quality of the car, rather than it 
being the case he was the victim of a scam. And she didnt think there was anything more 
the bank ought to have done.
Mr D disagreed and so the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Theres no dispute about whether the payment was authorised. Mr D willingly made the 
payment for the car and knew what he was doing. And so the starting point is that he is 
responsible it, as per the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of 
his account.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which HSBC has 
signed up to and was in force at the time Mr D made the payment.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code 
applies in the circumstances of the payment Mr D made and, in particular, whether HSBC 
ought to reimburse him under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it 
doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint
I am of the view that Mr Ds payment is not one where the CRM Code applies because Im 
satisfied it is a civil dispute rather than a scam. 
The main reason Ive made this finding is because Mr D has received the goods he paid for, 
including the warranty. The issue is that the goods arent of a satisfactory quality, an issue 
clearly stated as not being catered for within the CRM Code. Had Mr D not received the car 
at all, or had it been vastly different to what he ordered, the outcome might have been 
different. But as the problems come down to the condition of the car that was ordered and 
delivered I cant say Mr D has been the victim of a scam.
I can see why Mr D feels differently. There appears to have been some misrepresented and 
misleading information given to him, along with very poor service from the seller. But that 
isnt enough for me to conclude Mr D has been scammed. He has still received the goods he 
paid for, albeit that the car isnt of satisfactory quality. The fact that the seller did go on to provide the warranty once the purchase had been made 
also doesnt point this to being a scam. I wouldnt have expected the seller to look to 
complete the agreement if they were intending to steal money from Mr D. 
Mr D has clearly been treated poorly by the person(s) that sold him the car. But I dont find 
the circumstances point to him having been the victim of a scam and so the CRM Code 
doesnt apply to the payment made. 
Mr D has said HSBC informed him that the name on the receiving account didnt match the 
payee name he gave on his payment instruction. And he feels HSBC shouldnt have allowed 
the payment to go through if the names didnt match.
Ive listened to the call in which Mr D raises his scam claim and the bank doesnt tell him the 
name of the recipient account holder or that it didnt match his payment instruction. Mr D 
does ask about this and he says that he is aware of these details being checked in other 
countries. But the bank adviser only says that the payee name wouldnt have been checked 
as it wasnt a requirement and the bank wouldnt have had access to the information. What 
the bank said there was true at the time, with changes having been made to how payments 
are processed having now been brought in. And so the bank did nothing wrong in allowing 
the payment to go through.
Ive not seen evidence to show that the bank is, or ever has been, aware that the payee 
name didnt match. I know Mr D has asked for the details of the payee but the bank doesnt 
appear to have that information to share. And even if it did, it wouldnt be able to pass this 
information on to Mr D. There are some situations where it might be able to, if Mr D had 
accidentally paid the wrong account for example. But thats not what happened here.
Mr D has said this leaves him in a situation where hes not able to pursue a civil dispute in 
court because he doesnt know who to file one against. And I can understand his frustration 
here. He might consider contacting the receiving bank directly to see if it can help. Or he 
could perhaps reach out to the DVLA who should have the details of the previous registered 
keeper, if those arent already given on the VC5 document provided with the car. But its not 
for HSBC to provide the payee details to him.  
The only area where I find the bank perhaps ought to have done more is at the point Mr D 
was making the payment. The bank appears to have flagged the transaction as suspicious 
and so it contacted Mr D to verify it. He was taken through some security questions and 
asked to confirm it was him that was making the payment. There was also questioning that 
aimed to ensure Mr D was engaging in a legitimate purchase, to the extent that the advert 
was genuine, the car did exist and the person selling it had the right to sell it. Thats because 
the bank will have been aware of scams where fake adverts for the sale of cars are posted 
and customers send money to buy them but then never receive the car. If the bank had 
concerns about what it was being told then a strong warning about scams ought to have 
followed, with the customer encouraged to carry out more checks to establish the legitimacy 
of the purchase.
But here Mr D had been to see the car and had done a lot to verify the purchase. And we 
know that Mr D did receive the car, so there wasnt much more the bank could have done 
here. 
The one concern I have is that the bank indicated to Mr D that one of its other customers 
had raised a fraud claim against the same payee (identified by the account number and sort 
code). But it didnt really explain a great deal of detail here or what it meant when it really 
ought to have done. I think it was fairly clear, having listened to the call, that Mr D didnt fully 
understand what he was being told. And the detail provided by the bank was quite limited.Im not persuaded, however, that it would have made a difference if the bank had been able 
to share more information. Mr D was confident of the legitimacy of the purchase given hed 
been to see the car and everything seemed above board. And so it seems more likely than 
not he would have proceeded in any case.
In conclusion, Im satisfied Mr D isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there 
are other grounds on which I could say that HSBC should, fairly and reasonably, bear any 
responsibility for Mr Ds loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman