DRN-4079977
The complaint
Miss K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) 
recorded negative markers on her credit file, when her mortgage was in arrears before the 
sale of her home. She wants BM to exercise discretion now, and remove those markers.
What happened
Miss K told us that she sold her house, and paid off her mortgage, in December 2021. She 
said that this was the culmination of an extremely difficult period in her life. She said she had 
kept BM informed every step of the way. She told us that before the property was sold, BM 
reported arrears on her mortgage for three months prior to the sale. 
Miss K said shed now found out that she couldnt get another mortgage, because of these 
negative markers on her credit file, and she was horrified to find that these markers would 
stay there for six years. Miss K said she wanted BM to demonstrate empathy to her and her 
situation, and remove the negative markers which were having such a disproportionate 
effect on her now.
BM has shown our service that it reported missed payments for Mis K, for three months at 
the end of 2021. Its shown us her mortgage statements, which do show arrears at this time. 
And its also shown us a letter it sent Miss K in September 2021, which told her about a 
change to its systems. That letter reminded Miss K that she needed to make payments by 
the end of each month, or BM would report arrears to the relevant credit reference agencies.
BM has written to Miss K, to say its very sorry to hear how this affected her, but it wont 
remove the negative markers on her credit file. It said it is under an obligation to report 
factual information to credit refence agencies. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Miss K had his 
sympathies for the difficult circumstance she had faced, and her reasons for selling the 
property. But he said that BM did need, as it had said, to record what happened on her credit 
file. And BM had made Miss K aware of the impact of that on her file. So he didnt think BM 
had been unfair. 
Miss K said she wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Id like to begin by acknowledging that Miss K has shared some very personal information 
with us, particularly about the extremely distressing circumstances that she faced around the 
time that arrears accrued on her home, and she took the difficult decision to sell the 
property. I will not set out the personal information she has shared here, but Id like to 
reassure Miss K that I have taken it fully into account in considering her complaint. 
Miss K hasnt disputed that her mortgage was in arrears before it was cleared, so shes not 
arguing that the markers BM has placed on her credit file are factually wrong. And BM has 
shown us that it wrote to Miss K both with a general warning about the effect of non-
payment, and specifically to tell her that there were arrears on her mortgage, in late 2021.
What Miss K would like, is for BM to exercise some discretion, and remove the markers on 
her credit file, because of the impact they are having on her now. 
BM has said its sorry, but it is obliged to provide a factual record of the conduct of Miss Ks 
account. So it wont make the amendment she wanted. 
Im sorry to have to tell Miss K that I dont think BM has been unfair here. I appreciate the 
impact that Miss K is now saying these markers have on her, but BM isnt responsible for the 
decisions that lenders are taking about Miss K now. BM is responsible, under the agreement 
it has with credit reference agencies, for providing a factual update on the position of Miss 
Ks mortgage account. It makes a legal commitment to do that, as part of the contract it 
agrees which also allows it to see what other lenders have said about their customers when 
it needs to make lending decisions of its own. Because BM did make Miss K aware that it 
would report these arrears, and because what BM has done is in line with the obligations its 
under, I dont think that BM has to amend Miss Ks credit file now.
BM has said that the credit file updates it provides just arent the place to recognise the 
nuances of Miss Ks difficult situation, which led to these arrears. It has suggested Miss K 
could record a notice of correction with the relevant credit reference agencies. Any future 
lenders would then need to consider this before making a decision on whether to lend to 
Miss K. And that way, she could be sure that decisions they are taking are fully informed 
ones. 
Its a matter for Miss K to decide whether she would prefer to do that, or not. But Im sorry to 
have to tell her that, for the reasons set out above, I dont think BM has to remove these 
markers now. 
I know Miss K will be very disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman