DRN-3262047
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) set up a 
loan on their property, and the charge they took on another property they own at the same 
time.
What happened
In September 2008 Mr and Mrs M agreed a loan with NatWest for the completion of a 
property Ill refer to as C, to purchase land and to repay an existing mortgage. Although Mr 
and Mrs M had told NatWest they were going to be living at C, the loan was set up as a 
conventional business loan.
In May 2010 NatWest realised that the loan should have been set up in accordance with the 
Mortgage Conduct of Business (MCOB) requirements because Mr and Mrs M were living in 
the property. In August 2010 a loan agreement was signed converting the business loan into 
a MCOB compliant format.
In early 2021 Mr and Mrs M complained to us saying theyd recently discovered that despite 
what NatWest said at the time, the loan they signed in August 2010 wasnt opened. Their old 
business loan remained in place instead. Mr and Mrs M say that this meant they werent 
afforded the protections that an MCOB loan would give them. They also feel that they were 
put to needless inconvenience in 2010. as they signed three sets of documents to put the 
new loan in place.
Mr and Mrs M want the MCOB compliant loan to be put in place instead of the loan 
agreement they signed in September 2008. They also want to be compensated for the 
inconvenience this matter has caused them.
Mr and Mrs M also complain that in addition to taking out a charge over C, NatWest also 
took a charge over one of their other properties. Ill refer to that property as K. Mr and Mrs 
M dont think NatWest should have a charge over K and want that charge released. NatWest 
have said they would only consider releasing the charge over K if Mr and Mrs M pay to have 
C valued again, so NatWest can decide whether it thinks the charge over C is enough 
security for them bearing in mind the amount outstanding that they still need to repay. Mr 
and Mrs M dont think thats fair. They want NatWest to remove the charge and pay for the 
new valuation.
 
Our investigator looked into what happened.
MCOB loan set-up
Our investigator said that NatWest has demonstrated that Mr and Mrs Ms 2008 loan was 
converted to a MCOB regulated loan in August 2010. He said the 2010 loan was MCOB 
business loan, not a residential mortgage. It was secured against an occupied residential 
property, and was a MCOB regulated contract, and it was required to be. 
Mr and Mrs M think the 2010 loan should have been a conventional residential mortgage. 
The say theyd preciously complained to NatWest about the poor communication around the 
2010 loan conversion in 2017. NatWest upheld that complaint, apologised and paid them a 
£5,000 goodwill payment to acknowledge poor communication about the change from a 
business loan to one governed by MCOB regulations, and to cover other points.
Our investigator said that the acceptance by the bank of poor communication didnt 
specifically refer to Mr and Mrs M being told that the new loan would be a conventional 
MCOB mortgage or an MCOB governed business loan. So it wasnt clear whether this point 
was covered in the 2017 complaint. So he considered whether there was any evidence to 
suggest that NatWest said the 2010 loan would be a residential mortgage as Mr and Mrs M 
have argued.
Our investigator said that having read the banks notes from 2010, and from 2012 when the 
loan was restructured, he didnt see anything to suggest that the loan needed to be a 
residential mortgage. He said the bank was clear in 2012 that the loan was a business loan 
that needed to be governed by the MCOB rules given the charge over the residential 
property.
Our investigator accepted that he hasnt seen any transcripts of conversations that might 
have taken place directly with bank staff in connection with the 2010 loan. But he was 
satisfied, on the evidence provided, that there was nothing to indicate that the 2010 loan 
should have been a residential mortgage or that Mr and Mrs M were told it was going to be 
one.
So our investigator didnt think the bank has made a mistake on that point.
The charge over K
Our investigator said that NatWest has provided the legal charge documentation dated 29 
September 2008 that related to the original 2008 loan. The bank has also provided us with 
the loan agreements for September 2008, September 2009 and August 2010 which show (in 
the security schedules) that the Mr and Mrs M agreed to the charge over K.
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr and Mrs M have said that when the loan was put in 
place NatWest agreed to release the charge over K once C was completed and its value 
reached a loan to value satisfactory to it. However, our investigator said that the 2008 and 
2010 loan agreements dont refer to this, and he couldnt see any correspondence that 
shows NatWest agreed to this. Mrs M had referred to a 2012 email from NatWest that only 
mentioned a charge over C. However our investigator didnt think this meant that NatWest 
meant that the charge over K would be released
In the circumstances our investigator couldnt say that the bank made this commitment. He 
said he understood that Mr and Mrs M wanted the charge over K released. However, he also 
understood that NatWest wanted to ensure that its remaining security gives it adequate 
cover for the outstanding borrowing. So he thought it was reasonable for NatWest to ask Mr 
and Mrs M to pay for the updated valuations.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigator. Mrs M has told us that they were clear in 
discussions they had with bank staff that the charge was to be taken over their marital home, 
not K. She thinks NatWest should have kept better records of these discussions.
Around this time Mr and Mrs M also complained about the time it took NatWest to close 
another loan. That issue is being considered in a separate complaint.As Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigator, they asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
MCOB loan set-up
Mr and Mrs M havent made any specific points after our investigator sent them his view on 
their complaint. So it appears that this aspect of the complaint is largely resolved. However, 
for completeness I have looked at this part of the complaint again. Ive looked at NatWests 
contact notes from 2010 and 2012 when the loan was restructured. Like our investigator, I 
cant see anything to suggest that the loan needed to be set up as a residential mortgage. I 
can see that in 2021 NatWest said the loan was a business loan that needed to be governed 
by the MCOB rules given the charge over the residential property. 
Taking this aspect of the complaint as a whole, and bearing in mind the available evidence, 
Im not satisfied that the 2010 loan should have been a residential mortgage or that Mr and 
Mrs M were told it was going to be one.
The charge over K
Ive also considered what has been said and provided about the charge over K. Like our 
investigator, I cant see anything in the documentation that suggests that NatWest agreed to 
release the charge over K once C was completed and its value reached a loan to value 
satisfactory to it. 
I appreciate that Mrs M has told us that NatWest made that commitment verbally, and that 
she repeatedly asked NatWest to follow up the point in writing. Im in no doubt about her 
strength of feeling about that. However, I have to balance what she has told us against the 
documentation that has been provided. 
If NatWest had made such a commitment I would expect it to be referred to in the relevant 
documentation. Thats because the documents were designed to set out all the terms that 
had been agreed. They were signed by both parties (after legal advice was obtained) to 
show that both parties had agreed to the terms set out in them. Although I have no reason to 
dispute what Mrs M has told us (that there had been a conversation or conversations about 
NatWest releasing the charge over K once C was completed and its value reached a loan to 
value satisfactory to NatWest) I cant see anything in the documentation that covers this. So 
I think its more likely than not (on the balance of probabilities) that while NatWest mightve 
considered this, they didnt formally commit to this. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M are likely 
to be very disappointed by my finding on this, so I can only suggest that they pursue this 
point with the solicitor that advised them in 2008. 
For completeness I will say here that like our investigator Im not persuaded that the 2012 
email from NatWest (that only refers to a first charge over C only) demonstrates that 
NatWest agreed to release the charge over K once C was completed and its value reached 
a loan to value satisfactory to it. That email was sent by a senior relationship manager at 
NatWest that hadnt been involved in arranging the 2008 loan. He said the loan Mr and Mrs 
M had in place is a business loan, secured by a first charge over C, their matrimonial home. 
It is not a conventional mortgage facility. He went on to say why the loan had to be governed by MCOB. I think its likely the NatWest relationship manager that wrote the email 
only referred to the security taken over C, because Mrs M had been talking about C in her 
previous email.
As Im not persuaded that NatWest formally agreed to release the charge over K once C was 
completed, I think its fair for NatWest to ask Mr and Mrs M to pay for C to be valued again 
so that NatWest can consider whether it might be willing to release the charge over K.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman