DRN-3029320
complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP), in 2002. 
A TMPP is a type of insurance protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical 
illness cover. The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the 
consumer wishes. Mr M bought all of these elements, however, only the PPI has been 
complained about here.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators looked into the case and said they didnt think we should uphold the 
mis-sale element of the complaint. 
They also said that although Halifax doesnt accept it did anything wrong in relation to the 
commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it has since made an offer to Mr M as if 
it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back some of the cost in relation to the 
commission element was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  but they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive also decided Halifax should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
We dont have a copy of all the documents I think would have been used in the sale process 
as it was back in 2002. Businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely, but I do have 
sight of some of Halifaxs computerised records and Ive seen quite a few very similar 
complaints to this one. Consequently, I know broadly what consumers like Mr M were 
supposed to be told and given when being offered mortgage PPI like this. I think the PPI 
element would only have been added to the mortgage after consent had been specifically 
obtained. I think Mr M would then been sent the policy details setting out everything that had 
been agreed in a schedule which Ive seen several times before.
However, the most notable feature of this case, in my view, is that I see Mr M made a 
successful claim on the policy, for unemployment, commencing late 2008. This clearly 
shows hed agreed to the cover and knew it was in existence and I see his claim lasted for 
237 days and paid him £2,891.
I think the circumstances show Mr M bought the PPI because it was a form of protection he 
wanted to have with his mortgage.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr M as part of an advised sale, so it had to check that the 
PPI was suitable for him. I think it was.
He was eligible for the cover and had limited means to fall back on. The cover provided 
protection against unemployment or being unable to work for up to 24 months. As the 
mortgage was secured against his home, I think Mr M had a use for it. 
His representative said hed had a shoulder injury in 1993 and implied this may have made 
claiming difficult in certain situations. However, Ive seen no evidence the policy rules would 
have excluded such a claim and I note the injury was some 9 years before the sale. In any 
event, no details or evidence were provided by his representative and there was nothing 
about his employment which would have made it difficult for Mr M to claim. Its possible 
some mental health or back problems would have required additional medical evidence for a 
claim to be made. However, Ive not seen that these would have altered Mr Ms view and I 
dont think hed have expected to claim without at least providing some evidence. 
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave to Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
might have been. But the paperwork he was probably provided with, in my experience, 
would have been quite comprehensive in detailing which elements of protection hed bought, 
so I think he had enough information on which to make an informed decision. The PPI cover 
wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying, from the information he 
was most likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like it was affordable for him. Because 
of all this I dont think Mr M would have declined the cover even if had Halifax could have 
done a better job at explaining the policy.
Mr Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I 
have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I also mentioned above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether this resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received under 
the rules that apply  but in any event I note its offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, 
so theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Ms representative has made a number of points about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on his complaint. In summary they said Mr M should get back all the money he paid for the 
policy because Halifax failed to tell him about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover. Because they 
say these things meant the policy was poor value, they imply I should find that Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had he known about the level of commission. His representative 
says he should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
However, in this case, Halifax has shown us that the commission for Mr Ms PPI was less 
than half of what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out 
and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Ms case was less 
than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in the rules about 
compensating consumers.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which require a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
So, I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr M about the commission levels in this particular 
case. It follows that I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship and I dont 
therefore think Halifax treated Mr M unfairly.  This means it doesnt need to pay Mr M back 
any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipHowever, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mr M some of the cost of 
the PPI to compensate Mr M as if it had treated him unfairly. I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
my decision
I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ms complaint or make any award in his favour. 
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, but it has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. It should 
therefore now make arrangements to pay him, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman