DRN-3459000
The complaint
Mr E has complained about how Oakwood Homeloans Limited has treated him since his 
mortgage term ended in 2016. He is a vulnerable consumer and says that Oakwood forced 
him to sell his house for less than it was worth due to the pressure he was placed under. He 
also says that he was unable to remortgage due to information Oakwood recorded on his 
credit file, and he was unable to work which meant he didnt receive all the income he should 
have done.
What Ive decided  and why 
I issued my provisional decision in April 2022, the findings of which said:
It is clear that things have been incredibly difficult for Mr E for a long time. I wont go into 
any details about that in my decision to protect his privacy, but I can reassure Mr E that Ive 
read and considered everything he has said and provided.
Mr E has said that, in 2018, the judge adjourned matters for an indefinite period, so he is 
unhappy that Oakwood took things back to court not long afterwards. That individual 
hearing was adjourned due to Mr Es ill-health that day, but I cant see anything to indicate 
the judge ruled matters should be adjourned indefinitely. If that was the case I would have 
expected to see a court order detailing that. Instead it seems the hearing was simply 
rescheduled for a few months later.
There were further court hearings after the one Mr E says he felt the judge ruled matters 
were to be adjourned indefinitely in. Had there been a ruling that matters be adjourned 
indefinitely the time and place for Mr E to raise that would have been in the court hearings 
that followed. I dont find that Oakwood did anything wrong in proceeding with litigation as 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest the judge ruled matters be adjourned indefinitely. 
Mr E has said that he had a remortgage in place, and the only reason that couldnt go 
through is because the lender did a further credit check and that showed two missed 
payment markers Oakwood had placed on his credit file. Mr E says those markers are 
incorrect as hed paid his mortgage in advance  hes said he was making large advance 
payments of £2,000 a month when the markers were put on. Hes also asked why 
Oakwood didnt continue to put the markers on each month thereafter.
Firstly, I should make it clear that the markers Oakwood put on were missed payment 
markers, not defaults as Mr E has referred to them as. Defaults are a very different thing to 
 and much more serious than  missed payment markers. Oakwood hasnt put any default 
markers on Mr Es account, it has put two missed payment markers on.
The missed payment markers were put on the account in January 2017 and February 
2017. Ive looked at the transaction history for the mortgage for that period and I can see 
that the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) was making payments to the 
mortgage for a number of years, with the last full payment being made in November 2016 
and then it made a part payment in December 2016. The last payment Mr E had made 
himself at that point was in May 2010. No payments were made by either the DWP or Mr E 
in January 2017 or February 2017. Mr E then paid £1,260 in March 2017 which covered 
the January and February payments.
Mr E didnt make his first £2,000 monthly payment until April 2017, so after the missed 
payments that were reported on his credit file. Whilst the DWP payments were higher than 
the interest due, Mr Es mortgage doesnt allow for credit to be built up to then allow the 
borrower to miss payments. Instead the DWP overpayments just came off the mortgage 
balance, and so reduced the amount of interest that was due.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage state You will make a monthly payment to us on 
each payment day With monthly payment defined as the amount which you are 
required to pay each month and payment day as the day in each month on which you 
are required to make a monthly payment
From this we can see that the terms of Mr Es mortgage are that a payment must be made 
every month on the payment day.
As no payments were made to the mortgage in January 2017 and February 2017 the 
information Oakwood reported to the credit reference agencies about Mr Es mortgage  in 
that he missed the payments in those months  is correct. To answer Mr Es question 
about why Oakwood didnt report ongoing arrears  that was because, in March 2017, he 
made a payment to cover the missed payments and brought the account back up to date.
Oakwood reported arrears to the credit reference agencies when Mr E missed his 
mortgage payments. Like all lenders, Oakwood has a responsibility to report that 
information accurately, as it has done. There are no grounds for me to order Oakwood to 
amend Mr Es credit file information as it is a true reflection of the conduct of his mortgage 
account. If Mr E wants to add an explanation to his credit file, he can contact the credit 
reference agencies directly and ask to add a notice of correction, that way other lenders 
can read Mr Es explanation for the situation when they are deciding whether or not to lend. 
But I cant order Oakwood to remove the missed payment markers as they are an accurate 
representation of what happened.
For that reason I cant hold Oakwood liable for the fact Mr E was unable to secure a 
remortgage to repay his Oakwood mortgage.
Mr E has said he sold his property for £245,000 when it was worth £300,000. He says he 
did so due to the pressure from Oakwood.
Mr E has said Just to clarify, the property was not officially sold in Dec 2018 - I had no 
offers made for my property tuntil [sic] late Jan 2019 it was then I reluctantly agreed to 
exchange contracts in Feb 2019 to sell at £55,000 below market price. But thats not 
supported by the evidence Mr E supplied to us from his solicitor. Mr Es solicitor said [The 
property] was sold subject to Contract towards the end of 2018.It seems from the contact notes that Mr E told Oakwood back in early 2018 that the 
property was on the market, and throughout 2018 he said he received various offers. The 
contact notes indicate he told Oakwood:
8 March 2018 that he had turned down an offer of £200,000 as it is £90,000 under 
market value.
 7 June 2018 that he had turned down a few offers of between £220,000 and 
£230,000 as he believes they are too low, albeit when Oakwood checked it couldnt 
find any record online of the property being marketed.
15 June 2018 that he had received an offer for the property (amount not noted).
7 August 2018 that he had accepted an offer of £299,000 but there was a chain 
involved so no timescales could be provided for completion.
13 August 2018 that he had agreed a sale price of £290,000 and he would send 
evidence of this from his solicitor.
14 August 2018 he had accepted an offer for £250,000 and he would send proof of 
that from the estate agent. The notes indicate Oakwood received the evidence.
17 September 2018 the valuer  in respect of the £250,000 offer  had been out to 
value the property the week before.
8 November 2018 he said the sale had fallen through and he was now looking to 
remortgage (this is the remortgage I mentioned earlier in this decision).
9 November 2018 Mr Es representative phoned and said the property was back on 
the market.
27 November 2018 Mr Es representative said the property was on the market for 
£295,000 and she felt it was worth £270,000.
29 November 2018 he is thinking of reducing the asking price to £250,000.
6 December 2018 Mr Es representative said she now has Power of Attorney to sell 
the property, she had reduced the marketing price to £250,000, and has viewings in 
place.
25 January 2019 a third party advised that contracts had been issued to the buyers 
solicitor on 2 January, and a final valuation was due to take place the following week 
(the context to the final valuation is explained in the contact notes as we note that 
repairs to the roof were required to be completed before the survey could be 
instructed).
The mortgage term had ended in June 2016 and so at that time the full mortgage debt 
became immediately due. The court  after considering everything both sides said and 
provided  granted Oakwood an Order for Possession in March 2017, which said Mr E was 
to give possession of the property to Oakwood by 24 April 2017. There were various 
hearings after that with Mr E trying to retain possession of his property, with the final 
hearing being on 13 August 2018 when Mr Es last appeal was dismissed. Despite that 
Oakwood still allowed Mr E until March 2019 for a sale to complete.At the time contracts were exchanged on the sale it seems - from what the contact notes 
indicate Mr E told Oakwood - that the property had been on the market for a year and that 
various offers had been made in that time which were mostly around the level of (or below) 
the one that proceeded to completion.
Mr E has said his property was sold at well below market value but in reality a property is 
only worth what a buyer is willing to pay for it. Mr E says his property was worth £300,000 
but the potential buyers didnt agree. The marketing literature, from what I can see online, 
had no internal pictures and the property description said that the property requires 
modernisation and redecoration. The contact notes indicate the roof needed repairs before 
a final valuation could be carried out. Whilst Mr W has said that online estimates indicate 
his property was worth more, those are simply figures based on average sale prices in the 
wider area and arent specific based on the actual property, and the condition of that 
property. 
In any event, Oakwood did nothing wrong in insisting the debt was repaid and if the only 
means Mr E had to do that was to sell the property then that was what he needed to do. At 
the time the property was sold the mortgage debt was over two and a half years overdue 
and Oakwood simply didnt have to allow any more time.
Mr E has said that he was unable to return to work because of how Oakwood treated him  
he said this led to him missing out on earnings of £5,000 a month. Ive considered this 
point very carefully but, having done so, Im unable to uphold this part of Mr Es complaint. 
Ill explain.
Oakwood didnt receive the correct Third Party Authorisation Form until 8 January 2019. 
Before then Oakwood spoke to third parties upon receiving individual verbal authorisation 
each time from Mr E, but until it had a formal third party authorisation in place it was unable 
to deal with any third parties proactively. This meant any calls it needed to make outbound 
had to be to Mr E.
In any event, I cant consider any calls before 23 January 2019 because Oakwood 
responded to a complaint about those on that date, and it had responded about earlier calls 
in its earlier final response letters. As I explained in my decision about our jurisdiction, 
those complaints werent referred to us in time and so we cant consider them.
Oakwood had noted on the account that Mr E was vulnerable, and once it had the correctly 
completed third party authority I can see that it only made one attempted call to Mr E, 
which was on 25 January 2019 and he didnt answer it. In its response to our investigators 
assessment Oakwood accepted it shouldnt have tried to call Mr E that day, and for that 
error it offered £200 compensation.
Mr E has provided conflicting information about whether he was working or not. The 
contact notes indicate Mr E told Oakwood:
5 August 2016 he will be returning to work on a self-employed basis in October of 
that year, with a contract for which he would be paid £2,500 a month. He said the 
director of the company he would be working for was a friend of his.
20 December 2016 he will be returning to work on 3 January 2017 and that he will be 
receiving a £1,700-£1,800 monthly retainer, and then monthly bonuses of about 
£300-£400. Oakwood asked for various pieces of evidence to show income and 
expenditure which werent received.20 March 2017 he said he will be receiving £2,000 a month from 1 April 2017. The 
evidence Mr E provided indicated it was only for 12 months and then would be 
reviewed. Mr E said he would contact the employer to ask them to send a letter 
saying that upon the 12 month review his income should increase rather than 
decrease.
31 March 2017 Mr E said the employer was now willing to pay him £3,000 a month 
plus £500 a month in bonuses. He also said he had an interview for a second job that 
he would work evenings and weekends. A letter was received from the first employer 
saying it would pay Mr E £3,000 a month, and that it would be reviewed in 12 
months.
10 April 2017 he said hed got the second job and would be starting on 1 May 2017. 
Later notes indicate Mr E said hed be receiving a £2,000 a month retainer and would 
receive an annual bonus of £2,000.
12 April 2017 a letter was received from the first employer saying Mr Es contract was 
now permanent and the retainer will be reviewed every 12 months.
1 August 2017 Mr E said hed previously sent the bank statements that were required 
for his term extension appeal, and he would send them again the next day by 
recorded delivery. He said he was unable to scan and email them across as he was 
emailing from work and didnt want his personal issues to be seen at work.
4 August 2017 an email was received from Mr E saying hed now received his bank 
statements but was unable to send them in as he hadnt received an income and 
expenditure form to complete to send with them.
10 August 2017 the bank statements were received and reviewed and didnt show 
the income that Mr E had said he was earning.
8 March 2018 hes due to receive a £5,000 commission payment shortly and will pay 
it straight to the mortgage.
So it can be seen from all these contacts that  when wanting to extend the term of his 
mortgage  Mr E was very clear that he was working at that time (that is, from April 2017 
onwards) and he said his income was £5,000 a month in retainers, plus bonuses and 
commission. The term extension request was turned down as Oakwood felt Mr Es bank 
statements didnt show he was in receipt of that income. Whilst I cant consider the fact the 
term extension was turned down as that complaint wasnt referred to us in time I need to 
mention all this to give the background for this part of the complaint, as Mr E wants to claim 
compensation for loss of earnings as he says he had been unable to work (since 2016) due 
to the impact Oakwood had on his health.
I asked our investigator to clarify the discrepancy with Mr E  that is, he previously said he 
was working and earning £5,000 a month since April 2017, but also wanted to claim for a 
loss of income as he said he was unable to work between 2016 and 2020. In response 
Mr E has said:
I'm very sorry for the confusion about my employment.
That is correct ie that i didn't work from 2016 to 2020 due to [Mr Es health condition].
However, at the time of applying for a remortgage to pay off Oakwood Home Loans, I had 
an offer of employment and would have been earning £5,000 per month.When my mortgage was rejected because of the lies that Oakwood Home Loans had told 
the Credit Ref Agency it made me ill and I couldn't return to work.
This is slightly different again, with Mr E saying he wasnt working in 2017 contrary to what 
hed previously told Oakwood when applying for a term extension, but instead he had an 
offer of employment in 2018 when he was applying for the remortgage. Mr E has said that 
the reason he couldnt take up that offer of employment was because his remortgage was 
rejected, which triggered his health issues.
Ive already found previously in this decision that the information Oakwood recorded on 
Mr Es credit file was factually correct and so I have no grounds to order it be amended or 
removed, and so it follows that I cant uphold this part of Mr Es complaint that he was 
unable to return to work due to that remortgage being turned down (which he has attributed 
to that information on his credit file).
It is clear Mr E has been through some very difficult times, and I give him my best wishes 
for the future. Id like to thank Mr E for how open he has been with us about his health 
concerns, and personal circumstances, it cant have been easy for him to recount 
everything to us. As I explained in my decision about our jurisdiction, the points I can 
consider here are fairly limited, and having now considered those limited points the only 
issue Im able to uphold is that one attempted call to Mr E on 25 January 2019 which 
shouldnt have been made, and Mr E didnt answer.
That means any consideration of compensation will be fairly modest. I acknowledge things 
were stressful for Mr E, and that with his health concerns matters were likely to affect him 
more than most, but equally I must keep in mind all I am upholding is one attempted call to 
Mr E that he didnt answer. After very careful consideration Im provisionally minded to 
award Mr E £250 compensation for that error.
Oakwood accepted my provisional decision. Whilst Mr E said he was disappointed hed only 
been awarded £250 he made no further submissions, and asked when hed receive the 
payment.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so  and having considered the full file afresh  I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and order Oakwood Homeloans Limited to pay Mr E £250 
compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
E to accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman