DRN-2804435
The complaint
Mr P complains about his secured loan with Loan Logics Limited. He complains the interest 
rate he was charged was unfairly high and that Loan Logics didnt assist him when he 
struggled to afford his payments.
What happened
Mr P took out his second charge secured loan with a lender Ill call F. The loan was later 
transferred from F to Loan Logics.
While the loan was with F, Mr P fell into arrears and F added fees and charges to the loan 
balance. Mr P complained to us about that in 2015, and Loan Logics agreed to remove 
almost £5,000 of fees and charges from the loan balance.
In 2017, Mr P asked Loan Logics to reduce the interest rate on his loan. It said it couldnt do 
that. 
In 2019, Mr P asked again. He says a Loan Logics staff member told him his loan was on a 
very high rate that most other customers had already moved off. But he says Loan Logics 
refused to reduce his interest rate.
Mr P complained. He said his interest rate was very high and it was unfair that  unlike other 
customers  he couldnt reduce it. He said that Loan Logics hadnt treated him 
sympathetically or taken account of his health difficulties in the way it had dealt with him. He 
had struggled with the loan for years before eventually redeeming it in 2020.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, so Mr P asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ps health concerns, and Im sure the last few years have been 
difficult for him.
We first looked at his complaints about this loan in 2015 and 2016. At that time, we said that 
the loan had been mis-sold by the broker who advised him. But we didnt say the loan should 
be written off or refunded by the broker, because it had achieved the aim of consolidating 
debts elsewhere Mr P had been struggling with, even if not in the best way for him. That 
means the loan continued to exist, and Mr P continued to be liable for it. And in a separate 
complaint, we noted that Loan Logics (as it is now called) had offered to refund almost 
£5,000 in fees and charges  which we thought was fair. Im not going to revisit those issues 
as part of this complaint.
Following the 2015 complaint, Loan Logics re-worked the loan and agreed an affordable 
repayment of £250 per month with Mr P. Although most of this payment was towards the 
interest, it did reduce the capital by around £30 per month. 
From then on, Mr P by and large kept up with the repayments. But he did miss payments 
from time to time, and on occasion paid less than the agreed £250. So the loan was in and 
out of arrears  but wasnt ever in more than one months arrears, and Loan Logics didnt 
add further fees and charges to the balance other than one £30 arrears fee in 2017 and the 
redemption costs.
When Mr P did miss payments, or contact Loan Logics to say that he was having trouble 
making a payment, Ive seen that Loan Logics wrote to him to ask him to get in touch. It 
offered to discuss his income and expenditure, and to explore options such as payment 
arrangements or freezing the interest. I think this was fair, and showed a willingness to 
consider the sort of forbearance I would expect to see.
The interest rate for this loan was almost 20%, and I can see why Mr P felt this to be very 
high. However, this is a second charge secured loan  which are generally more expensive 
than first charge mortgages. And the loan agreement explained to Mr P that this was a high 
interest loan, more expensive than most other loans on the market  which reflected the risk 
his past financial difficulties caused. 
Another ombudsman has already decided the loan was mis-sold by the broker which sold it 
to him, and set out what the broker needed to do to put that right. Neither F nor Loan Logics 
sold Mr P the loan, or is responsible for that, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make 
further directions to Loan Logics in redress for the sale when an ombudsman has already set 
out what the broker should do. 
I dont think the interest rate is, in the particular circumstances here, inherently unfair or 
something that Loan Logics is required to reduce because of the mis-sale.
Loan Logics didnt sell this loan; it bought a group of loans when F ceased trading. Loan 
Logics says all the other customers it acquired from F have been treated the same as Mr P. 
It has maintained the loans on the same interest rate and terms and conditions as when they 
were taken over from F. Mr P says Loan Logics told him that other customers were not on 
the same rate. Theres no recording of that call, but that may well be right  although other 
customers of Loan Logics, whose loans didnt start with F, wouldnt be treated in the same 
way as former F customers. They would be on their own loans, on separate terms and 
conditions. 
So Ive not seen anything that suggests that Mr P was treated unfairly in comparison with 
other Loan Logics customers. And the letters Loan Logics sent him set out that it was willing 
to consider measures such as freezing the interest to assist him in financial difficulty  as Id 
expect. Taking everything into consideration, I dont think Mr P was treated unfairly, and so I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman