DRN-4298114
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way TSB Bank Plc handled his application for a current account. 
What happened
In mid-February 2023 Mr D made an online application for a current account with TSB. The 
account was opened and he was due to switch his account from another business in 
mid-March. Before the switch took place TSB asked Mr D for further evidence of his identity 
and address. Mr D tried to use TSBs mobile banking app but it wouldnt accept the 
reference number hed been given. And when he called TSB to ask for help, he was told to 
send his documents to an email address that wouldnt accept them. Mr D provided the 
information TSB had asked for but then received a message to say his application had 
expired, even though his account was active and the switch had taken place. He complained 
to TSB about the issues above and said he was also unhappy with the complicated process 
for raising a complaint.
TSB said it was confident it hadnt made a mistake. It said as Mr Ds account had been 
opened, the application reference number was no longer applicable. And he would need to 
use his account number and sort code instead. It said the email address it had given him 
included a secure link he could use to provide his identity documents. And it thought its 
complaint page provided clear information about how to raise a complaint. Mr D wasnt 
happy with this response so complained to this service.
Our investigator thought TSB needed to do more to put things right. She thought it was 
reasonable for TSB to ask Mr D to provide more evidence to verify his bank account. But she 
didnt think it had made it clear to Mr D how to log in to his account. And hadnt made it clear 
that the email address it provided included a link hed need to follow to upload his 
documents. She thought TSB should pay Mr D £50 for the inconvenience caused. She too 
didnt think TSBs complaint page was hard to find.
TSB accepted the investigators recommendation. But Mr D thought the compensation was 
too low. As Mr D didnt agree with the investigators view, his complaint was passed to me to 
make a final decision. I came to a slightly different conclusion to our investigator, so I sent a 
provisional decision to Mr D and TSB to give them an opportunity to comment. Both parties 
said they had nothing further to add. So, my findings and my decision below are substantially 
the same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ds concern and confusion when TSB asked for more information to 
verify his account even though his application had already been approved and it was in the 
process of switching his account from another business. But TSB is entitled to do this, and 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account sets out when it might need to check its 
customers identification. So, I dont think it was unfair of TSB to ask Mr D for further proof of 
his identity and his address when it did. 
But I agree with our investigator that the way TSB asked for that information was unclear 
and confusing. The email it sent to Mr D asked him to use its banking app to upload 
evidence to confirm his identity. And once he logged in, it said he would need to select ID 
Check and then enter his application reference number. Mr D said he tried entering his 
application reference number several times but it was not accepted and showed as not valid. 
TSB subsequently said his application reference number was no longer applicable at this 
point because his account had been opened. So, I dont see why it asked him to use it.
The result of this confusion was that Mr D had to call TSB and ask for help. Ive listened to 
this call and while the call handler was helpful and explained why it would sometimes need 
further information to verify an account, they didnt clearly explain what would happen next. 
They gave Mr D an email address so he could send TSB his documents. But they didnt say 
he would get an automated response containing a secure link to use to upload his 
documents. I can understand why Mr D found this frustrating and inconvenient, causing him 
to spend more time on a matter that should have been straightforward. 
Mr D was also unhappy with the time it took to register a complaint. TSB said it wasnt clear 
why it took him so long to do this and explained how it helps its customers to raise 
complaints. And, on balance, I think its response to this part of Mr Ds complaint is fair. Its 
website says the easiest way of making a complaint is to use its banking app. But it does 
give other options, including completing an online complaint form and I dont think that is 
particularly difficult to find. 
Putting things right
Our investigator thought TSB should pay Mr D £50 for the inconvenience caused by TSBs 
poor service. Mr D didnt think that was quite enough and, on balance, I agree. He said he 
was caused significant inconvenience and worry when TSB asked for further evidence to 
verify his account. And while TSB was justified in asking for that evidence, I can understand 
his confusion and his frustration when he wasnt able to follow the instructions hed been 
given in an email and then by one of its call handlers. Mr D said that this was compounded 
by the message he received soon after his account had been switched, which said his 
account application had expired. I think an amount of £150 would be more appropriate for 
the level of inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that TSB Bank Plc should pay Mr D £150 
for the inconvenience caused by its poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman