DRN-3037788
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd declined his claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr M purchased a sofa from a retailer in October 2019 and entered into a finance agreement 
with Creation.
Mr M was unhappy with the quality of the sofa because the cushions went flat and it was 
unconfutable to sit on.
Mr M wasnt able to resolve things with the retailer, so he raised a claim under section 75 
with Creation. Creation arranged an inspection of the sofa. The inspection report found no 
manufacturing faults and Creation rejected the claim.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the cushions had started sinking when the sofa was only a few 
months old and by the time hed been told to fluff up the cushions, the damage had already 
been done.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer the right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit  if theres been a breach of contract. In order to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation, and that Creations response to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred. 
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter into 
the contract.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This says that there isnt a fault with the sofa, and 
advises that the sofa needs to be regularly dressed to maintain its  shape and appearance.
In order to find that theres been a breach of contract, I would need to be satisfied that the 
sofa had a fault which made it of unsatisfactory quality. Theres no evidence to suggest that 
the sofa has a fault, so Im unable to say that theres been a breach of contract.
Ive also considered whether theres been a misrepresentation. Mr M hasnt said that he was 
given any care advice by the retailer at the point of supply. Theres no evidence that  an 
untrue statement of fact was made about the sofa which induced Mr M to enter into the 
contract.
I understand that Mr M feels frustrated and says that he wasnt given any care instructions. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mr M was provided with instructions on how to fluff up the 
cushions by the technician who carried out the inspection. There isnt any evidence to 
suggest that this hasnt resolved the issue or that the sofa isnt of satisfactory quality.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. I dont think that Creation has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
the section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman