The complaint
Mr S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs handling of a chargeback claim. He says it 
made mistakes and, as a result, he hasnt had the refund he believes hes entitled to.
What happened
Mr S purchased some electronic equipment.  The initial product was returned as it was 
damaged in transit. The merchant then sent another which was received. Mr S says this 
second item wasn't faulty, but it didn't meet his needs. Mr S says the product 
wasn't described correctly within the advert and therefore wasn't fit for purpose. Mr S says 
he returned the product to the merchant, but it says it will not refund him. So,  the 
merchant now has the product and the money. So, Mr S asked Barclays to raise 
a chargeback. 
Barclays raised a chargeback under the category 'goods damaged'. It made a temporary 
credit to Mr S's account. The merchant responded challenging the chargeback. This was 
sent to Mr S to review and respond to within 10 working days, if it didn't resolve the dispute. 
Mr S says he responded but unfortunately Barclays didn't receive it and closed the claim and 
reversed the temporary credit.
Mr S is unhappy with how Barclays handled the chargeback process and feels the process 
wasn't explained and he wasn't kept up to date. He wants Barclays to return the money.
Barclays has acknowledged that it made an error when logging the claim as it says it raised 
it under 'goods damaged' when it should've been logged as 'goods not as described'. 
However, it says that after reviewing the documentation from the merchant it says it was 
unlikely the case would've been successful even if it raised it under the correct reasons 
code. Barclays says the dispute team didn't receive Mr S' response and under card 
providers rules and regulations once a dispute is closed it's unable to re-open it. However, it 
apologised for the error and the inconvenience it caused Mr S and offered £100 
compensation.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He said he didn't think Barclays could've 
pursued the claim because the issue was that the product didn't meet Mr S' needs. And he 
said this reason doesn't fall within the card provider's definitions for raising a valid claim. He 
considered the handling of the claim and said while Barclays didn't handle it well, he was 
satisfied the £100 it offered was fair for the issues experienced. 
Mr S didn't agree, he said Barclays has misrepresented the chargeback process and gave 
exceptionally poor and misleading customer service. He feels the merchant hasn't allowed 
him to exercise his consumer rights. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
DRN-1078304 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, 
for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The chargeback rules are set by the card providers and not by Barclays. Its an informal 
process with no guarantee of success. I would expect a bank or building society to raise a 
chargeback where appropriate. I understand Mr S told Barclays that the goods were not as 
described. 
Chargebacks are decided based on the card schemes rules, not the relative merits of the 
cardholder/merchant dispute. So, its not for Barclays  or me  to decide whether the 
chargeback shouldve succeeded. Barclays role is to raise the chargeback and consider 
whether any defence received from the merchant complies with the rules.
From what Ive seen, thats what Barclays did here.  Im satisfied that Barclays raised the 
chargeback albeit under the wrong reason code and, upon receiving the defence, wrote to 
Mr S for him to review the information to see if it resolved the dispute. Having looked at the 
response from the merchant, I note it refers to the grounds of the claim for item 'not as 
described or defective', So, although the code used by Barclays may not have been 
accurate, I can see the response still covers 'goods not as described'. 
I understand Mr S thinks the merchant hasn't met its obligations under consumer rights. I 
should clarify that this service can only consider Mr S complaint about Barclays. It cant 
make any ruling or award in respect of the merchant actions. So, whilst I've reviewed the 
merchant's response  since it forms part of the background that gave rise to                          
Mr S complaint about Barclays  its not for me to say whether the merchant has acted fairly 
or not.
The merchant provided evidence to show that the goods were sold as described and were 
not defective. I've reviewed this and I think that it's clear that the goods were working. 
So, from what I've seen I think Barclays is correct to say it couldn't have pursued the claim, 
as the issue wasn't with how the goods were described. I can see that the goods Mr S 
bought didn't meet his needs. But this isn't a reason that falls within the rules of the card 
providers scheme.
There isn't a valid reason code for a product not meeting a customer's needs, the claim must 
be made for a specific reason, for example, defective goods. I therefore won't be asking 
Barclays to uphold the chargeback, as based on card provider's rules and what I understand 
of the dispute, the chargeback doesn't seem to meet the criteria for a successful claim.
I appreciate that Mr S wants Barclays to re-open the chargeback, as he told it that he had 
responded to the merchant's defence. However, Barclays says it didn't receive this and as it 
hadn't received a response it closed the dispute and reversed the temporary payment. It has 
told Mr S that it's unable to re-open it.  I've checked the rules and the chargeback scheme 
rules say that the same dispute cant be raised more than once. So, I cant say that Barclays 
has acted unfairly by not allowing Mr S to raise the chargeback again. But as I've outlined 
above, it seems this wouldn't have impacted the outcome of the claim.
I understand that Barclays handling of this chargeback claim has not been handled very well, 
and I think Barclays could've explained more clearly how chargeback worked. But I can see 
it has apologised for the error and the service provided and offered £100 compensation for any inconvenience caused. I think this amount is fair and reasonable for the issues Mr S 
experienced, so I won't be instructing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman