DRN-3466107
The complaint
Miss Gs complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) relates to a valuation in 
relation to a flat she wished to buy. 
Miss G believes the valuation ought not to have been undertaken as NatWest ought to have 
determined at the outset that the flat was not suitable for a mortgage due to the high level of 
service charges.
What happened
On 9 August Miss G made a mortgage application through a NatWest mortgage advisor 
(MA). NatWest agreed the mortgage subject to receiving a satisfactory valuation report. 
NatWest say it was made clear to Miss G that the fee for the valuation was not refundable 
and for which she paid £442. In their final response letter of 25 August NatWest said that 
their MA told Miss G that the annual service charges would be considered for affordability 
purposes and not suitability of security purposes.
Miss G says accepts she was told that the valuation fee was not refundable in the event the 
property was determined not to be mortgageable, but says it was not made clear that this 
could be due to reasons unrelated to a standard survey.
The valuation report was received on 23 August following the valuers inspection. Miss G 
says there were no issues regarding the structural and/or quality of the property only that in 
the valuers opinion the property was not suitable security because the service charges were 
too high in relation to other properties within the locality. The valuer felt the high charges 
would negatively affect the saleability of the property. 
As the service charges were known well before the valuer was instructed to attend the, Miss 
G feels NatWest should have decided then at that point that the property was not suitable.
NatWest thought they hadnt done anything wrong and explained that their process was to 
rely upon the valuer to determine whether the property was suitable security for the 
mortgage. They said that whilst the service charges were discussed with the MA, a MA is not 
qualified to say whether the property would be suitable security, as their role was to assess a 
customers needs and the affordability of any mortgage applied for.
Miss G was unhappy with NatWests final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that NatWest hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Miss G didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two distinct pertinent issues here. The first relates to the MAs role and what he 
told Miss G. She feels she was led to believe that the valuation for the mortgage would 
simply be a tick box exercise. In other words there would be no problem in obtaining the 
mortgage from that point. I dont have any evidence of what was actually said between the 
MA and Miss G, so I have to work on the basis of what is most likely to have happened. 
It is unarguable that there are many parts to the mortgage process. One such part relates to 
the MA assessing an applicants needs and the affordability of any product being applied for. 
In some cases, the product applied for will be unaffordable at which point a MA can tell their 
customer that the application need not proceed further. 
In some cases, as was the case here, it was clear the mortgage was affordable for Miss G 
and the product met her needs. What the MA couldnt do at that point, because he was not 
qualified, was assess whether the property was going to be suitable as security. Only a 
valuer can do that, and NatWest have a panel of independent valuers to do that for them. 
That means in the context of this case that NatWest had to wait for the valuers opinion 
before being able to confirm that they were willing to lend to Miss G on this property. It is 
unlikely that the MA would tell Miss G something that he was not qualified to have an opinion 
on. So, I think it is unlikely that the MA misled Miss G as she suggests.
The second issue which arises is whether NatWest could have decided on the suitability of 
the property as security before obtaining the valuation. As I have indicated above, I dont 
think they could. The reason is because NatWests process is to rely upon the valuer for that 
very point and so the valuation was a necessary part in the process. 
As Miss G was made aware that the valuation fee was not refundable, and there was always 
a possibility that the valuation would not be favourable, I dont see that Miss G has been 
misled. I know Miss G says there were no issues regarding the structural and/or quality of 
the property but she had chosen a valuation for mortgage purposes as is evidenced from the 
title of the valuation report itself. So, the absence of any issues regarding property defects in 
that regard is immaterial. 
I cant therefore say NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding 
this complaint. The offer of mortgage in principle was always subject to a satisfactory 
valuation and Miss G was made aware of that. In this case NatWest determined the 
valuation not to be acceptable and so declined the application for a mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman