DRN-4344319
The complaint
Mr B complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax would not allow him to make a 
purchase. 
What happened
Mr B says he tried to make a purchase on a third party website on 31 October 2022, but he 
was unable to do so, and he received no message to his mobile phone. He says he phoned 
Halifax who told him to keep trying, but there was no success, so the call handler told Mr B 
there was nothing he could do. Mr B says later that day, he spoke to a Halifax call handler 
for an hour, and again he wasnt able to receive a message to his phone. Mr B made a 
complaint to Halifax. 
Halifax did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B brought his complaint to our service, and he 
said he received no response to his complaint from Halifax. Our investigator did not uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. He said Halifax provided us evidence that they sent responses to Mr Bs 
complaint on three different occasions. He said Halifax have provided evidence that the 
attempted transactions werent declined by them, and the transaction was authorised later in 
the day.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said there was no proof Halifax responded to his complaint in January 2023, 
and he said there was a racial component of his complaint which hadnt been addressed. He 
said on 23 May 2023 he wrote to Halifax which mentioned the racial component of his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Bs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. It simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
I must make Mr B aware that I can only look into the complaint points he made on his 
original complaint to Halifax. I note that he has said there is a racial component of this 
complaint, but I checked his complaint letter that he forwarded to our service on 10 January 
2023, and his complaint form to our service dated 1 February 2023, but these do not 
mention any racial components to the complaint Im looking at here. Mr B has said that he 
included this on his 23 May 2023 letter to them, but this is after Mr B brought his complaint to 
our service. So I wont be able to look into this as part of this complaint.
Halifax are unable to reproduce the final response letter they said they sent Mr B. And he 
disputes that Halifax sent it three times, with the last date being 3 January 2023. But I was 
glad to see that even if Mr B didnt receive the response from Halifax, that he was able to 
bring his complaint to our service in the relevant timescales for our service to look into his 
complaint. 
I note the strength of feeling that Mr B has about what happened on 31 October 2022 when 
he tried to make a purchase online. And it would have been frustrating when Halifax werent 
able to help him on the phone. Ive looked at the Strong Customer Authentication (SCA) log 
of the attempted purchases that Mr B tried to make that day. And there are multiple attempts 
for a purchase of £406.46. There is one record showing authentication cancelled. I can see 
this was at 14:05pm and it shows the customer cancelled the authentication attempt. I can 
see that the authentication method was a one time passcode text message, so it does 
appear this was sent. But I cant hold Halifax responsible if this wasnt delivered by his 
phone provider, as this would be outside of Halifaxs control.
It appears that subsequent attempts were declined due to a specific code - which is an 
online shopping transaction declined due to the merchant not submitting correct fraud 
prevention measures required by SCA regulations. So I have no doubt that Mr B wasnt able 
to complete the transaction several times when he attempted to, but due to the decline code, 
this would be outside of Halifaxs control, so Im not persuaded they were responsible for 
what happened here. 
I can see from the SCA log though, that the transaction was successfully authorised at 
17:26pm on 31 October 2022 when the payment was authorised on this attempt, and his 
statement shows this debiting his account the following day. So Im pleased that Mr B was 
able to complete the purchase he wanted to make on the same day, but I can sympathise 
with him that this wasnt as seamless at it usually would be. But for the reasons Ive already 
given, Im satisfied this was not due to Halifaxs actions. So it follows I dont require Halifax 
to do anything further.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman