DRN-3980989
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Extracover Limited refused to provide motor insurance for him. He 
bought a flexible car hire and reward policy for courier drivers. 
What happened
Mr J bought a commercial vehicle policy with Extracover. Extracover provide cover for up to 
30 days at a time under the policy. Extracover provides a Certificate of Enrolment (COE) 
which gives the dates of cover and the courier companies it provides cover for Mr J to drive 
for. 
A courier company contacted Extracover and provide it with a copy of a COE from Mr J. 
After examining the COE, Extracover found it had been altered. So it made the decision not 
to offer Mr J future cover. 
Mr J complained to Extracover. He said he didnt alter the document. But Extracover didnt 
uphold his complaint. So Mr J asked us to look at things for him. 
Our Investigator didnt think Extracover had acted unreasonably. It was entitled to decide not 
to offer cover to Mr J from the information it had. It hadnt recorded a cancellation of the 
policy against Mr J. 
Mr J didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Extracover has provided a copy of the original COE it provided Mr J with and a copy of the 
altered COE. 
As Extracover explained, it provides cover for up to 30 days at a time. The original COE 
shows a date of 30 days for cover. The altered COE shows a period of cover of 13 months. 
The registration number is in capitals on the original COE, but is in part lower and part 
capital letters on the altered COE. 
An insurer is entitled to decide not to offer insurance if it has reasonable grounds to do so. In 
this case, I think Extracover has shown that its decision was reached reasonably. I therefore 
dont think Extracover has done anything wrong. Mr J hasnt provided any alternative 
information to evidence otherwise. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J. But this means Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman