DRN-4416841
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC refuses to refund all the money he lost to an 
investment scammer. 
What happened
In early 2019, Mr S was searching for cryptocurrency investment opportunities online. He 
came across a company Ill refer to as C who offered Bitcoin trading investment 
opportunities. Mr S filled out an online form and was contacted by a representative of C who 
explained how they could offer their expertise to generate profits for him. As Mr S was an 
inexperienced investor, the idea of an expert assisting him sounded appealing, so he 
decided to invest with C.
On 2 February 2019, Mr S used his Barclaycard credit card to pay an initial deposit of 
£257.91 to his trading account with C. After seeing good returns, Mr S was contacted by 
another representative of C who advised theyd be able to make him more profits if he 
deposited more money. On 11 March 2019, Mr S made a further Barclaycard credit card 
payment of £1,500 (plus a transaction fee of £44.85). Mr S paid further funds on the same 
day of £18,051 via an international bank transfer (using his Barclays current account). 
One of Cs representatives (who was trading on Mr S behalf) placed trades that lost a 
substantial amount of Mr S trading profits. Mr S was encouraged to put more money onto 
his trading account to help recover it. He declined and tried to recover the account himself to 
no avail. 
Mr S tried to withdraw the funds he had left in the account but was unable to as he didnt 
meet Cs terms for withdrawal. It was at this point that Mr S realised hed been scammed. 
Mr S contacted Barclays for assistance with recovering his payments in 2019.
Barclays reviewed Mr S international bank transfer and sent a scam notification to the 
beneficiary bank but was unable to recover any funds. After some time, Mr S complained 
formally about Barclays failure to protect him from falling victim to this scam. Barclays 
agreed it could have done more to prevent Mr S loss and offered to refund 50% of the loss 
plus interest. 
Unhappy with the outcome Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things. She didnt think Barclays could have dissuaded Mr S from 
investing as hed completed his own due diligence checks and there was no credible 
adverse information about C at the time. She felt the offer from Barclays was more than fair. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said he was very grateful for Barclays offer but he feels he couldnt 
have known about the intricacies of this type of fraud. He said this money was his life 
savings and he would have listened to a warning from his trusted bank of 20 years. 
The payments made via Mr S Barclaycard were dealt with separately by Barclaycard (who 
are a separate entity to Barclays). Our investigator wrote to both parties highlighting that this 
matter wasnt referred to this service until January 2023 (more than six months after the date 
of Barclaycards final response) and so, this service didnt have the jurisdiction to consider 
the disputed credit card payments. Neither party disputed this point, so my decision will only 
focus on Mr S disputed international bank transfer from his Barclays current account. 
The complaint was passed to me for determination and on 30 September 2023, I issued a 
provisional decision upholding this complaint. For completeness, I repeat my provisional 
findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked into things, Ive reached a different outcome to that of our Investigator. I 
intend to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Its common ground that Mr S authorised the scam payment in question here. He was tricked 
by the scammers into instructing Barclays to make the payment. I accept this was an 
authorised payment even though Mr S was tricked. So, although he didnt intend the money 
to go to scammers, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Barclays has accepted that it ought to have intervened when the payment was made. It also 
feels it could have helped in preventing the scam. It however held that Mr S didnt do enough 
to protect himself. 
I agree that the payment was out of character for Mr S. Ive not seen that he made a 
payment of this magnitude in the statements Ive reviewed, so I agree that Barclays should 
have paused the payment so that it could have had a conversation with Mr S to check that 
all was well.  
Ive thought about how this conversation would have likely gone. I think Barclays would have 
queried the purpose of the payment. I have no reason to doubt that Mr S would have 
explained that he was investing in cryptocurrency with C and that hed found them online. I 
think hed have explained that he had an account manager who was guiding him through his 
trades and hed made good profits so far. 
With this information, I think Barclays would have reasonably had concerns. Barclays had 
more information at its disposal about cryptocurrency fraud. This was because of credible 
warnings about this type of fraud that it ought to have been reasonably aware of; as a 
financial professional. It also would have been familiar with its own customer experiences 
which it had more insight of, than the average consumer. I think it could have shared its 
customers experiences with crypto fraud and it could have explained that merchants provide 
sophisticated websites that look legitimate but can provide fake data to make it seem like the 
customer is earning profits but its no more than a simulation. It could have also explained 
that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing substantial funds. Given that these funds were Mr S life savings, Im inclined to agree that hed have most likely listened 
to a warning from his trusted bank. 
Even if Mr S didnt realise this was a scam at the point of a warning, I think Mr S would have 
carried out more pointed research around the operation of crypto fraud and would have likely 
uncovered the various credible warnings about this type of scam. I dont think there needed 
to have been specific warnings about C for Mr S to have taken a meaningful warning from 
Barclays seriously. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr S actions contributed to his losses. Despite regulatory 
safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take responsibility for their 
decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000).
I dont think that Mr S contributed to his losses. He says he carried out research on C and 
didnt find any negative reviews or adverse information at the point of his investment. Ive 
also seen that he invested a small sum to start and watched his account perform for a few 
weeks before deciding to invest larger sums, so I think he was cautious. He was an 
inexperienced investor and was persuaded by Cs professional website and representatives 
that appeared to be knowledgeable. I think this was a sophisticated scam and I think it would 
have taken a trusted financial professional (like Barclays) to assist in uncovering what had 
the hallmarks of a common crypto scam. So, I dont think Barclays rationale for holding Mr S 
50% liable is reasonable in this particular case.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S replied accepting my provisional decision. Barclays didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S accepted my provisional decision and Barclays provided no response, I see no 
reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
My final decision is, I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should;
refund the remaining loss totalling £9,025.50; and
pay 8% simple interest, per year, on this amount from the date of the payment to the 
date the settlement is paid (less any lawfully deductible interest). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman