DRN-2028172
The complaint
Mr L complains Leeds Building Society (LBS) gave misleading when his mortgage was 
coming to an end. Hes unhappy it applied an Early Repayment Charge when he re-
mortgaged.
What happened
Mr L took out a mortgage in joint names with LBS in 2015 on a deal that ran to the end of 
July 2020. In 2017 he took out further borrowing on the mortgage, which ran to the end of 
June 2019. Later in 2017 he completed a transfer of equity so the mortgage account was in 
his sole name. LBS sent Mr L new offer letters for both. These said in the event Mr L 
redeemed the loan or transferred to a new mortgage product, an early repayment charge 
would apply until the end of June 2019 (for the additional borrowing) and July 2020 (for the 
main mortgage). 
In May 2019, Mr L received a letter telling him his mortgage deal was coming to an end. It 
included the overall outstanding mortgage balance and monthly payment. It said he could 
transfer to a new product straight away, or once the deal came to an end the account would 
be transferred to LBS Standard Variable Rate. LBS have since confirmed this letter was 
only about Mr Ls further borrowing, and not the main mortgage account  although this 
wasnt specified in the letter. 
Mr L decided to re-mortgage all his mortgage accounts to another lender and instructed 
solicitors. LBS provided a redemption statement which confirmed an ERC of over £2,400 
applied for early redemption. Mr Ls re-mortgage was completed in October 2019, with the 
ERC being applied. 
Mr L said he was under the impression the letter he received in May 2019 was for all his 
mortgage accounts, and he wouldnt have re-mortgaged if he had realised it wasnt. He 
asked LBS to refund the ERC. 
LBS agreed the letter couldve been clearer and fed this back to the relevant department 
within the business. However, it said Mr L received annual statements each year which 
confirmed the expiry of the main mortgage and further borrowing accounts. So, Mr L 
shouldve been aware that the main mortgage account wasnt coming to an end when they 
wrote to him in May 2019.  And in any case, the ERC was made clear before the re-
mortgage was complete and so the letter in May 2019 made no difference to the outcome.
An investigator found that Mr Ls main motivation for re-mortgaging was to take out further 
borrowing to complete urgent repairs on his property. So, he didnt think the ERC should be 
refunded. But he thought the letter from LBS wasnt clear and didnt meet Mr Ls 
expectations. He recommended LBS pay £100 to compensate Mr L for what had happened. 
LBS disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls main mortgage account say an ERC applies if he 
redeems the mortgage before the end of July 2020. I can see Mr L was also informed of this 
on the annual mortgage statements he was sent each year, which included a breakdown of 
each mortgage account. 
Mr L redeemed his mortgage in October 2019, which means LBS were fair to apply the ERC 
under the mortgage terms and conditions. And Mr L had previously been informed of this in 
the mortgage statements and when he first took the mortgage account. So, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask LBS to refund this. 
The letter Mr L received in May 2019 isnt clear in so far as it states his mortgage is coming 
to end. In fact, only the additional lending part was due to end, but the main mortgage had 
more than a year to run. The letter is easily read, as Mr L did, that the mortgage was coming 
to an end. And so I can understand why he thought there wouldnt be any ERC to pay.
Im not satisfied this was the sole reason for Mr L re-mortgaging though. Hes provided us a 
timeline that clearly demonstrates he wasnt contemplating a re-mortgage until September 
2019 to finance urgent repairs required to his home. So, while I think the May letter was 
unclear, Im not persuaded it prompted Mr L to re-mortgage when he did. 
Ive carefully considered the impact this had on Mr L. I can see the content of the May letter 
has caused Mr L a great deal of confusion and I do think it was unclear and misleading. But 
Im not persuaded it was the cause of Mr L re-mortgaging. And I bear in mind that in the re-
mortgage process Mr Ls conveyancer asked LBS for a redemption statement, stating Mr L 
had given authority to request same. And the redemption statement clearly detailed the 
amount of ERC that he was liable for. 
Having considered this very carefully I am satisfied that LBS did something wrong  its May 
letter was unclear and misleading. Ive thought about the impact on Mr L  I am satisfied the 
letter caused unnecessary confusion and the inconvenience that came with having to 
correspond about the lack of clarity. LBS think an apology and feedback is enough, but I 
disagree. The letter concerned a significant stage in the mortgage process  a decision 
about whether to continue with the deal being offered, seek a new one with the current 
lender or take the step to go elsewhere. So, in my view accuracy is paramount so that fully 
informed decisions can be made. And Im cognisant the Regulator requires communications 
from regulated firms to be clear, fair and not misleading.  LBS failed here and that had an 
impact on Mr L as Ive described.
Putting things right
Having fully considered the circumstances of this complaint and the inconvenience caused 
to Mr L as a result, LBS should pay him £100 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Leeds Building Society to pay Mr L £100 for the 
inconvenience caused.
LBS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr L accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman