DRN-2683367
The complaint
Mr R complains that Extracover Limited settled a cyclists claim on his commercial motor 
insurance policy without a full investigation and without informing him of the outcome. Hes 
unhappy that this has affected his No Claims Discount (NCD) and premium at renewal.
What happened
Mr R was involved in an incident with a cyclist, but no collision took place. Mr R told 
Extracover about it for information only. The cyclist made a claim against Mr Rs policy for 
damage to his bike. Extracover made one unsuccessful attempts to obtain a police report 
and to contact a witness. It then settled the cyclists claim on a without prejudice basis. Mr R 
only discovered this when his policy came up for renewal and his NCD was affected. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Extracover 
had made its decision to settle the claim without enough evidence. He thought it should have 
done more to contact the two available witnesses. And he thought it should have given Mr R 
an opportunity to defend the claim and told him the outcome. 
So he thought Extracover should remove the fault claim, restore Mr Rs NCD and recalculate 
his premium and give him a refund of the difference, with interest. And he thought it should 
pay Mr R £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its lack of communication.
Extracover replied that it had made its decision to settle based on the two versions of events 
and its previous experience. But it agreed that it should have communicated better with Mr R 
and it agreed to pay him £150 compensation for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Extracover said that Mr R was turning left across a cycle lane and this caused the cyclist to 
brake and fall off his bike, damaging it. The police attended, but the cyclist didnt need first 
aid. Extracover said the onus was on Mr R to check his mirrors and take care. And so it held 
Mr R at fault. But Mr R said he hadnt been given a chance to give his full account of what 
happened and that Extracover hadnt contacted an independent witness. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. 
Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made 
the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr R the same as someone else in his position. 
Extracover is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr R to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr R has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. 
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are 
entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party 
claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
I can see that the cyclist sent an email to Extracover making a claim against Mr R. In this 
email, he gave details of the police reference number, and the name of an independent 
witness whose details were in the police report. The cyclist provided photographs which 
showed that he was slightly hurt, and his bike was damaged. He said he wasnt making a 
personal injury claim. His claim for damage to his bike was for £95. 
Extracover made an application for the police report, but this wasnt received. So it didnt 
contact the named eye witness. It said it tried to contact a witness, Mr Rs passenger, but 
there was no response. It settled the cyclists claim by paying him £450, the amount hed 
bought the bike for. From what I can see, this was a commercial decision it took to avoid 
further costs. 
But I dont think this was fair or reasonable. I think Extracover didnt sufficiently investigate 
the claim before making its decision to settle it. There had been no collision, so what had to 
be established was whether Mr Rs actions caused the cyclist to fall from his bike. 
To investigate this fully, I think Extracover should have followed up the request for the police 
report and then the eye witness. I think it should have made more than one attempt to 
contact Mr Rs passenger. I think it should have given Mr R a chance to defend the claim by 
providing his own photographs and statement. I think it could also have taken legal advice 
about the likely outcome if the matter went to court. Instead, Extracover made presumptions 
about what had occurred based on the cyclists version of events and the road layout. 
So I think Extracover unfairly held Mr R liable for the incident and unfairly recorded a fault 
claim against him. I think it should now restore Mr Rs position. 
Extracover has already agreed that it failed to communicate with Mr R about the claim and 
its agreed to pay him the recommended £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in similar 
circumstances. So Ill not consider that further.
Putting things right
I require Extracover Limited to do the following:
1. Remove the fault claim from Mr Rs record and restore Mr Rs NCD.
2. Recalculate Mr Rs premium and refund him any difference, adding interest at the rate of 
8% simple per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
3. Pay Mr R £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor 
communication. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Extracover Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman