DRN-3568848
The complaint
Mr F complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as RSA handled 
his claim under his motor insurance policy
What happened
RSAs car was damaged by a pothole in the road. RSA dealt with his claim but he was 
unhappy because it was recorded as a fault claim on his insurance record and he had to pay 
his policy excess. He felt that the council were responsible for the roads poor condition and  
wanted RSA to recover from them their costs of repairing his car and providing a hire car. 
RSA said they couldnt recover these costs because the council didnt accept responsibility 
for the pothole and RSA would have had to take them to court. But RSA got legal advice that 
they didnt have a reasonable chance of being successful in court. 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
RSA had exercised their rights under the policy reasonably. Mr F disagreed and so Ive been 
asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained, under Mr Fs policy, RSA have the right to take over and 
settle a claim on his behalf. I see that it says that in Mr Fs policy on page 11 section 4 
paragraph 6.  This is a common term in insurance policies and so RSA can do this whether 
Mr F agrees with it or not. Insurers are entitled to make a commercial decision about 
whether it is reasonable for them to defend a claim in court or better for them to settle it. So 
our role is only to decide if RSA have exercised that right in a reasonable manner. 
Its not in dispute that Mr Fs car was damaged by the pothole. This was on 18 January 
2021. I can see from RSAs file that RSA listened to Mr F and contacted the council to make 
a claim.But the council said they were not liable for it because theyd followed the applicable 
law. 
They said they regularly inspected their roads about monthly, their last inspection before Mr 
Fs incident was on 16 December 2020 , and no one had reported any problem with the road 
between then and 18 January 2021, the date of Mr Fs incident. So they didnt know about 
the pothole and so couldnt have done anything to prevent it causing damage. They showed 
RSA their inspection report which covered the period 18 January 2020 until 18 January 
2021. Ive looked at this and it does confirm what RSA say, that they inspected the road 
about monthly and there were no defects reported before Mr Fs incident. I know that Mr F is 
suspicious of this report because he said it took the council over a year to produce it rather 
than send it right away after the incident. But I think this is more likely to be attributable to 
delay on the councils part and, while unfortunate, I dont think thats RSAs fault. Theres no 
persuasive evidence to suggest that the council may have fabricated that report evidence, if 
thats what Mr F means. 
 
Mr F was also unhappy that the council blamed the pothole on another company which had 
previously worked on the road. He felt that the council were trying to deflect blame, but again 
theres nothing persuasive to suggest that. Its clear from RSAs file that the council did write 
to the other company about that. However the other company denied liability too, for much 
the same reason as the council had, that the council had inspected the road regularly and 
neither they nor the company were aware of the pothole issue before Mr Fs incident.  
 
RSA took legal advice on their prospects of their successfully suing the council for their 
outlays, which were about £1,000. Their lawyers looked at what the council said, and the law 
and the evidence. The advised that RSA had no reasonable prospect of successfully suing. 
So RSA decided not to sue the council or the other company. Mr F disagreed as he didnt 
see how RSA could know that they wouldnt be successful unless they tried. But court 
proceedings can be long and costly, and there is no guarantee of success. Insurers and 
lawyers have experience of this and so we think its fair for insurers to decide if it is likely to 
be economic to sue - theyre not required to sue at any cost. The policy allows them to make 
a commercial decision and we dont think that unfair, particularly as they relied on legal 
advice first. 
I can see that Mr F feels upset about having what he calls a black mark against his 
insurance record, although this incident happened through no fault of his own. However it is 
normal insurance practice where an insurer cannot recover their claim costs from anyone, 
for that to be recorded as fault on insurance databases, and it doesnt mean that he is to 
blame. 
I understand that Mr F has found this experience frustrating and feels that RSA didnt defend 
his interests properly. But I have seen that they listened to him, they investigated and 
contacted the council and the other company, they followed things up and challenged what 
they were told. They then took legal advice on the matter before deciding what to do. Mr F 
felt this took too long, and I do think that it took some time before RSA gave Mr F their final 
decision on the claim. But I think that was due to delay on the part of the other parties and 
not RSAs actions. And while it was ongoing, RSA did explain to Mr F what they were doing 
and what stage they were at. So I think that RSA acted reasonably and in line with their 
policy and I dont require them to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
