DRN-3070824
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly placed a fraud marker against his name, 
with CIFAS, the UKs fraud database.
What happened
Mr G had two accounts with HSBC. On 16 May 2019, £1,670 was paid into Mr Gs savings 
account. This payment was then transferred to Mr Gs current account. Following this, three 
payments were made using Mr Gs mobile banking facility, to an individual I will refer to as 
Mr B. And a fourth attempted to another individual Ill refer to as T. Each of the four 
payments were referenced Holiday.
The payment to T triggered HSBC;s fraud detection system for additional checks. So, the 
bank sent a text message to Mr Gs mobile phone asking him to get in touch and verify the 
payment. Mr G called HSBC and after going through some security questions he verified the 
four payments as genuine and were for a holiday. Mr G told the bank that T was his friend. 
He told the bank that he recognised the payments to Mr B, and these were also for a 
holiday.
Due to concerns about the payment to T, HSBC blocked Mr Gs account and asked him to 
go into a branch with ID to reset his telephone and online banking. Mr G visited a branch on 
17 May 2019 and confirmed that hed been expecting the £1,670 that had been paid into his 
account, and it was from a friend. HSBC then removed the blocks from Mr Gs account. 
Following this a number of ATM withdrawals were made from Mr Gs account.
HSBC received a notification from another bank that the £1,670 that had been paid into 
Mr Gs account was fraudulent. HSBC recovered £500 of the funds from Mr Gs account  
the rest had been spent. Following this HSBC closed Mr Gs account and recorded a CIFAS 
marker against him. At the time Mr G wasnt concerned about HSBCs actions. However, 
around a year later Mr G needed to open a new bank account to have his wages paid but 
couldnt due to the marker. So, he complained to HSBC and asked them to remove the 
marker. HSBC declined his request, so he brought is complaint to our service. 
Mr G says he had no idea the funds were fraudulent. He initially said that hed given his bank 
details to a friend who hed agreed to trade some game console coins of around £20. Mr G 
says his friend then told him that his relative had accidentally overpaid him by £1,650  so 
hed received £1,670 instead of just £20. He said his friend told him his relative would go to a 
branch with Mr G to withdraw the money. Mr G says he went to a branch, but the bank 
wouldnt let him withdraw any money. He said he told his friends relative, but he didnt 
respond. And his friend told him not to worry about anything, but not to tell anyone about 
what had happened. 
Mr G also said that he hadnt made any of the transactions which were made using the 
fraudulent funds and doesnt know Mr B or T. He said hed had his bank card on him at all 
times and never disclosed his PIN to anyone else. He says he was elsewhere at the time of 
the ATM transactions and believes that his bank card must have been cloned. So, HSBC 
should remove the marker. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. She said that the bar for recording a 
CIFAS marker is a high one. And shed considered Mr Gs explanation of what hed said had 
happened, but she didnt think his explanation that hed received the fraudulent funds by 
accident was plausible. She also noted that Mr G hadnt said hed lost his card or that his 
mobile banking had been compromised, and that hed confirmed the transactions as genuine 
in a phone call with HSBC. And that Mr G had changed his story about what had happened. 
So, overall,  she thought it was more likely than not that Mr G had authorised the disputed 
transactions. So, she said HSBC had acted fairly when it recorded the CIFAS marker.
In response, Mr G said hed been placed under duress and felt pressured by his friends 
relative when he went into a branch to withdraw the funds. He maintained that he never 
made any of the disputed transactions and that he was elsewhere when the ATM 
withdrawals were made. He said HSBC should have done more to stop them. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC says it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr G received fraudulent funds into his 
account and spent them. So, I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made 
fairly. HSBC needs to have more than mere suspicion or concern. It has to show it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or 
attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the police.
 
What this means in practice is that bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Gs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
So, I need to decide whether HSBC had sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof 
and load a marker against Mr G. Having looked at all the evidence Im satisfied they have, 
and I say this because:
Ive seen evidence from HSBC that another bank notified them that the £1,670 paid 
into Mr Gs account on 16 May 2019, was fraudulent. And his account was used to 
pass it on.
Mr G has changed his account of the key events, which are significant details that go 
to the heart of this complaint. And is contrary to the evidence. This makes it very 
difficult for me to place much weight on what hes said. 
Mr G initially told us he gave his bank details to his friend so that he could receive a 
payment of £20 in exchange for games console coins. And his friends relative paid in 
too much money  an extra £1,650 to be exact, by accident. But he hasnt provided 
any evidence to support this explanation such as any communication between his 
friend and his relative. If this explanation was true, I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for Mr G to alert HSBC and try and arrange for the money to be sent 
back. This didnt happen. Instead the money was spent. 
At the time Mr G told HSBC he was expecting the £1,670 and had only opened his 
savings account in order to receive the funds.  From looking at Mr Gs savings 
account statement, as far as I can see the account wasnt used very much at all prior 
to the fraudulent funds being paid in and had a balance of less than £40. I note too that Mr G didnt respond to HSBCs letter, or question why his accounts were being 
closed, which would make sense if he intended to use the accounts for genuine 
purposes. And he only did so when he discovered the CIFAS marker. This suggests 
to me that Mr G did in fact open the savings account in order to act as a money mule.
Mr G has also said that he didnt make any of the transactions that resulted in the 
fraudulent funds being spent. Hes said he was elsewhere when the ATM 
withdrawals were made. So, says his bank card must have been cloned. 
I dont think Mr Gs card was cloned. I say this because the banks technical evidence 
shows it was Mr Gs genuine card and PIN that was used to authenticate each of the 
ATM withdrawals. This means that whoever made the transactions needed to be in 
possession of both Mr Gs bank card and his PIN.
Mr G also hasnt provided a plausible explanation for how someone else was able to 
become aware of his PIN. Hes said he never disclosed it to anyone else, always 
kept his bank card on him. And was still in possession of his bank card when the 
ATM transactions were carried out. 
I know Mr G says he never carried out the transactions and has referred to CCTV 
evidence - however, whilst Mr G might not have appeared in the footage, it doesnt 
rule out the possibility that he allowed someone else to use his card. 
Ive also kept in mind that the ATM withdrawals which led to the account being 
drained took place after HSBC blocked Mr Gs online and telephone banking. I cant 
see how an unknown third party wouldve been aware of this information. And that in 
order to gain access to the remaining fraudulent funds in Mr Gs account that theyd 
have to revert to using Mr Gs bank card to make cash withdrawals. 
On 16 May 2019, four transactions (including one which was attempted) were made 
using Mr Gs mobile banking. The technical evidence provided by HSBC shows that 
these were made using the same device Mr G used to make undisputed 
transactions. Mr G hasnt provided a plausible explanation for how an unknown third 
party was able to gain access to his mobile banking information which was needed to 
make the online transfers to Mr B and T. 
Given the way the transactions involved were made, and that Mr G says he never 
gave away his security details, it isnt realistically possible for anyone to have made 
them without his permission.
When Mr G brought his complaint to us, he said hed never heard of Mr B or T. This 
is contrary to what he told HSBC when he called the bank in response to a text 
message it had sent to his mobile to confirm the attempted transaction to T. 
Ive listened to the call, and Mr G confirmed that the payments to Mr B and T were 
genuine. He told HSBC they were his friends and he was making the payments for a 
holiday.
After being provided with the call recording by the investigator, Mr G accepts that he 
made the call, but, says he only did so under duress. I think this information is at 
odds with what he told HSBC  both when he went to the branch and when he called 
the bank. I havent seen any evidence that shows Mr G wasnt an unwitting or willing 
participant in what happened. 
In summary, for the reasons, Ive explained, Im satisfied that HSBC had grounds to believe 
that Mr G was involved in the dispersal of fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence 
it had. I think it more likely than not that Mr G that Mr G knew rather more about the account 
activity than hes told us and the bank. So, I think it was fair for HSBC to register the CIFAS 
marker.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman