DRN-1247569
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited, trading as Cabot 
Financial (Europe) Limited, and their actions when they took over the management of his 
existing debt. 
What happened
In July 2017, Cabot bought Mr Hs existing debt he held on two credit card accounts, which I 
will refer to as account A and account B. Initially, these accounts were managed by a third 
party who Ill call W.
On 5 April 2019, Cabot wrote to Mr H explaining that the managements of both accounts 
were being taken back and theyd be managing them directly. So, they asked Mr H to 
contact them directly to arrange new payment plans for both accounts. For account A, they 
advised Mr H he could pay a reduced lump sum to close the account. For account B, they 
proposed a new increased monthly payment.
Mr Hs monthly payments were due on the 14th of each month. He was away from home 
around the time these letters were sent so he didnt receive them until after the payment 
date had passed. So, Aprils payments were made to W.
On 22 April, Cabot wrote to Mr H again for both accounts, asking Mr H to contact them to 
arrange a payment plan. On 24 April, W wrote to Mr H to explain his payments had been 
transferred to Cabot. On 26 April, Cabot sent Mr H further letters asking him to contact them 
to ensure his monthly payments were received.
Mr Hs payments for both accounts transferred by W were processed by Cabot in May.
Mr H wrote to Cabot to complain. He thought theyd acted unreasonably by giving him only 
nine days to arrange a new payment plan, and not setting a clear and fair time scale for him 
to respond. So, he thought Cabot had acted unfairly by sending the subsequent letters on 22 
and 26 April which he felt were threatening and defamatory. He also complained about 
Cabot e-mailing him without his permission. He wanted an apology and compensation to 
recognise the trouble and upset Cabots actions caused.
Cabot responded upholding the complaint. They apologised for sending the chaser letters to 
Mr H and explained thered been a delay in receiving the payments from W. But they thought 
their original letters offered reasonable solutions to help Mr H become debt free sooner so 
thought theyd acted fairly by making him aware of these. 
They also explained the lender who supplied account A had sent Mr Hs email address as a 
valid form of contact when they bought the account so had acted within GDPR when sending 
him an e-mail. But they had since removed Mr Hs e-mail from his account to ensure no 
further e-mails were sent. Mr H was unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Cabot had acted 
fairly by providing Mr H options to reduce his debt in a faster time frame. He thought Cabots 
apology was a reasonable response to the letters they sent when his payment hadnt been received. And that theyd made it reasonably clear to Mr H how he could contact them to 
discuss repayment options moving forward. 
He also explained Mr Hs complaint about a potential GDPR breach would need to be 
referred to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). So, he didnt think they needed to 
take any further action.
Mr H didnt agree with this view. He didnt think Cabots response was a genuine apology. 
He maintained that Cabot hadnt provided him with a reasonable time frame or final date to 
contact them and arrange a new payment plan. He also maintained that the wording of the 
letters sent by Cabot tried to pressure him into agreeing a more expensive plan without them 
taking steps to understand his financial situation. So, he didnt think Cabot had acted in line 
with the Standards of Lending Practice he felt they were obliged to follow. 
Because of this, Mr H felt he should be compensated for the stress hed been caused. As Mr 
H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Reasonable notice
One of Mr Hs main concerns in his response to the investigators view centres around his 
belief that Cabot didnt give him reasonable notice to set up a new payment plan before his 
existing payment was due.
Ive seen the letters Cabot sent Mr H explaining the accounts were being transferred back to 
them. These were sent nine days before Mr Hs existing payment to W was due. As Mr H 
was away from home around that time, I cant be sure when they arrived. But I do think they 
were read by Mr H after the payments had been made to W. I can understand why this 
would be frustrating for Mr H and would create anxiety as to whether the payments would be 
processed.
I appreciate a relatively short time period was provided and its unfortunate that it coincided 
with Mr H being away from home. But, there isnt a set amount of time Cabot have to 
provide. And, I dont think Cabot couldve been aware that Mr H was away around that time 
so were unable to know that Mr H wouldnt have been able to read the letters
Ive seen W received the payments that were taken for the month of April and transferred 
these to Cabot. W confirmed this in a letter sent to Mr H on 24 April. But there was a delay in 
these payments being received and processed meaning Cabot sent chaser letters to Mr H 
on 22 and 26 April.  I understand that this wouldve been frustrating for Mr H.
Cabot have recognised this and apologised for the letters being sent. Ive seen Mr Hs 
comments regarding the sincerity of the apology, but I think the wording Cabot used was fair 
and expressed their regret at the letters being sent.
Im also aware that Cabot werent contacted to arrange a payment plan, so they werent 
made aware the payments had been made to W. I think its likely that if theyd known this, they wouldve attempted to retrieve these from W and in turn wouldnt have sent the chaser 
letters to Mr W. As the payments have since been processed and there has been no 
financial impact on Mr H, I think the apology Cabot offered is a reasonable response.
Tone of correspondence
Mr H also raised concerns about the wording of the letters Cabot sent. Mr H has said he 
doesnt think the wording was clear or open which doesnt fall in line with the Standards of 
Lending Practice. Hes explained that the letters he received didnt specify the actions he 
needed to take if he didnt want to take the options offered by Cabot and that the new 
account details were hidden on the second page of the letters.
Ive looked at both letters sent on 5 April in detail. For account A, Cabot offered a reduced 
payment to close the account. Underneath this offer it states If you cant take up this offer, 
no problem, contact us today to set up your plan before providing a contact number and 
website address on the same page.
For account B, Cabot propose an increased monthly payment from £1 a month to £5 a 
month. Before detailing this offer, they explain Before you contact us to set up your plan, we 
want to make you aware of an alternative plan that can reduce the time youre paying and 
they again provide a contact number and website address. Both letters also included a 
postal address on the second page as another method of communication.
So, I think Cabot made it reasonably clear in both letters that the offers they put forward to 
Mr H were options that he could choose to accept. I dont think either letter forcibly 
pressured Mr H into accepting an offer that would be unaffordable.
Both letters gave Mr H the option to contact them to discuss an alternative payment plan and 
the contact methods were made reasonably clear. Its not my role to dictate where Cabot 
should place certain pieces of information within a letter if I think its made clear enough for a 
customer to see. I think Cabot have done so on this occasion. So, I think the wording was 
both clear and open which falls in line with the Standard of Lending Practice.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook also explains that Firms must set out options for 
increasing repayments for customers to consider to help reduce the amount of time it takes 
a consumer to pay off their existing debt. So, I think Cabot have acted fairly by putting the 
offers for both accounts to Mr H for consideration. Cabot have also explained they will be 
open to arranging a new payment plan taking into consideration Mr Hs circumstances 
following the conclusion of this complaint.
Mr H has also commented on the wording of the chaser letters sent on 22 and 26 April. Ive 
again looked at these in detail. 
On 22 April, the letters sent for both accounts state If your current plan still suits your 
situation, were happy to continue with it so again, I dont think they applied unreasonable 
pressure to Mr H.
The letters sent on 26 April explain Cabot were experiencing delays in receiving payment for 
the accounts. But they stress the importance of arranging a payment plan so the payments 
can be received on time. Whilst I understand Mr H was unhappy with Cabot using the plural 
delays even though only one payment had been missed, I dont think the wording of the 
letters were unreasonable. I think they explained fairly that a new payment plan needed to 
be arranged and communicated their contact options clearly.Because of the above, I dont think Cabot need to take any further action regarding this 
aspect of the complaint.
Communicating by e-mail
As our investigator explained, were unable in this office to decide whether there has been a 
data breach regarding your e-mail address. This would be an issue for the ICO. That being 
said, Ive seen Cabot have confirmed that your e-mail address has been removed from their 
system to ensure you receive no further contact through that platform.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Cabot Credit 
Management Group Limited, trading as Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman