DRN-2635819
The complaint
Mr d complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
Black Horse Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He further complains that the agreement 
was misrepresented. He wants any negative equity to be removed and compensation.
What happened
Mr d is represented in this complaint by his father. But for ease of reading Ill refer just to Mr 
d.
Mr d tells us that in November 2019 he acquired an almost new vehicle (43 miles recorded) 
from a local dealer Ill call MB. As part of the deal Mr d part-exchanged his current vehicle. 
In March 2020, he states that his new vehicle suffered a catastrophic episode in which it 
caught fire and was destroyed. Mr d reports that his health was affected in several respects 
by this incident.
He said that Black Horse cancelled the finance agreement but it didnt refund the deposit of 
£2,000 which he said had been paid towards the vehicle. And it had maintained there was 
negative equity of £2,469 still owing from the previous vehicle. Mr d says that this had never 
been discussed and hed not been told this was to be included in the later finance 
agreement. 
Black Horse told us that it had upheld Mr ds complaint about the vehicle not being of 
satisfactory quality. And that it had agreed to terminate the agreement and pay £500 for 
distress and inconvenience. But it didnt accept that thered been any misrepresentation. It 
said that when Mr d had part-exchanged his previous vehicle thered been outstanding 
finance to be settled of £4,469. Mr d had paid £2,000 to reduce this and the remaining 
£2,469 had been included in the new regulated agreement. And that still needed to be paid.
Our investigator issued two views. In those views he responded to a number of specific 
issues raised by Mr d. But he didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He 
found that Black Horse had dealt fairly with the quality issue regarding the vehicle. And had 
terminated the agreement and paid £500 compensation to Mr d. But he didnt think thered 
been any misrepresentation of the agreement. He said the negative equity arose from the 
earlier agreement which had financed the exchanged vehicle  not directly from the 
agreement that had been terminated following the incident. He further advised that this 
service couldnt make awards for any lack of amenity (personal injury) experienced by Mr d 
which arose from that incident.
Mr d responded with a detailed explanation of why he disagreed. And as he remained 
dissatisfied with the investigators response an ombudsmans been asked to make the final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the extremely distressing circumstances which surround this complaint. And I 
empathise with Mr d about the ongoing effects that this has had on his health and 
employment.
I think its fair to characterise Mr ds complaint as comprising two main elements. Firstly, that 
of the vehicle not being of satisfactory quality when supplied. Theres also the issue of 
alleged misrepresentation in respect of the price of the vehicle and negative equity from a 
previous vehicle being included in the later finance agreement.
I dont apply the law  directly - but I do take it into account. As this is a hire purchase 
agreement the Consumer Credit Act of 1974 (CCA) is relevant law. Section 56 CCA explains 
that finance providers are liable for what is said by a credit broker (MB) or a supplier before 
the consumer takes out the credit agreement. So Black Horse is potentially liable if there 
was any misrepresentation relating to the vehicle or the finance agreement by MB.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Black Horse agreed to terminate the agreement due to the vehicle not being of satisfactory 
quality. And its paid compensation to Mr d. Im aware Mr d feels he should also receive 
compensation for the effects the incident had on his health. But as our investigator 
confirmed, this service isnt able to make awards relating to personal injury. Instead, Ill 
concentrate on the remaining issue of misrepresentation.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a customer to enter an 
agreement and to suffer a loss as the result of the misrepresentation. In limited 
circumstances an omission might also amount to a misrepresentation. If the effect was to 
create a false impression.
Here theres a dispute as to exactly what was discussed prior to the finance agreement 
being incepted. And how this translated into what was included in the agreement.
Where information is incomplete or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr d agreed the purchase price of the vehicle he was acquiring and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest hes been asked to pay more than was agreed.
He also explains that he wasnt told about any negative equity being carried forward onto the 
new finance agreement. And that consequently the price of the newly acquired vehicle had 
been misrepresented and the deposit hed paid of £2,000 hadnt been included.
I accept that the way in which some financial agreements are set out can sometimes be 
difficult to understand. But Ill say from the outset that I dont find that there was any 
misrepresentation. Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.Its not disputed that as part of the negotiations which led to Mr d acquiring his new vehicle, 
he part-exchanged his previous vehicle. In my view, its not plausible to think that the price to 
be offered on that latter vehicle wasnt discussed. The key components of any part-
exchange deal are the cost of the new vehicle, the offer price for the exchange vehicle and 
the net cost to the consumer of the swop. 
Ive seen a vehicle order form dated 7 November 2019. That form appears to be signed by 
Mr d and contains information about the new vehicle and previous finance agreement. 
The form states:
On the road price                                         £36,380.00
Less Part-exchange                                     £14,400.89 
Add part-exchange settlement figure           £18,869.89
Less cash input (deposit)                             £ 2,000.00
Balance due from Finance Company           £38,849.00
The previous vehicle was subject to a finance agreement. So Mr d knew or ought reasonably 
to have known that this agreement would need to be settled. As the price he obtained for the 
exchange vehicle didnt cover the outstanding finance, this had to be paid by some other 
means. And this would typically be by a separate cash settlement, and / or - as happened 
here - the sum being carried forward and included in a new agreement. Its a regular feature 
of finance agreements, particularly those relating to motor vehicles, that settlements due 
from a previous agreement are carried forward. 
The sum owing on the previous agreement was £4,469 which was reduced upon the 
payment of £2,000. So whilst this latter sum wasnt used as a deposit on the new vehicle, it 
was credited towards the balance due on the previous agreement. So Im unable to agree 
with Mr d when he says it disappeared. 
Mr d accepts that he signed the hire purchase agreement based on a sum, before interest, 
of £38,849. Ive seen a copy of this dated 15 November 2019. And the agreement does 
indicate that the cost of the vehicle is £38,849. With no separate mention of negative equity.
I agree that the format in which finance agreements are presented might sometimes be 
clearer. But Mr d was aware that - following the negotiations in respect of acquiring a new 
vehicle and including the part-exchange of his then current vehicle - he was entering an 
agreement the net result of which was that he was seeking credit in the sum of £38,849. I 
dont accept that hes incurred any loss as the amount of credit stated on the finance 
agreement is £38,849.
Its suggested that Black Horse had later agreed to settle Mr ds claim in relation to the 
negative equity. But Ive not been provided with a recording of the phone call in which this is 
said to have occurred. In the absence of the relevant call or other documentary confirmation, 
Im unable to conclude that Black Horse agreed to this.
Ill deal briefly with some of the other issues which were raised by Mr d in his response to our 
investigators views. Mr d thought some further sanctions should be applied against Black 
Horse because of how it had acted here. Our investigator correctly replied that this service is not the industry regulator and has no powers of this nature. That was a correct response and 
Im unable to add to it.
Mr d also raised a number of points which were based on his interpretation of the law. This 
included the legal effect of some of the documents provided. Ive already indicated that I 
dont apply the law, so its not for me to determine if any particular document is or is not 
legally valid or if it can be enforced. Only a court can make such a decision.
I consider the information, including any documentation, with which Ive been provided. And I 
give such weight to each element as I consider appropriate. I reach my decision on the basis 
of what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
In summary, I find that Black Horse has provided an appropriate resolution in respect of the 
supplied vehicle not being of satisfactory quality. I consider that the termination of the 
agreement and compensation of £500 is fair and reasonable. 
Theres insufficient information to conclude that there was a misrepresentation in relation to 
the price of that vehicle or the hire purchase agreement through which it was financed. In my 
opinion, Mr d knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he was required to settle the 
previous finance agreement. And that the balance from this was carried forward to the later 
regulated agreement.
I shant be asking Black Horse to do anything else.  Accordingly, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the above reasons my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr d to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman