DRN-4069463
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with how QIC Europe Ltd handled a claim she made on her buildings 
insurance policy and says it took too long to decline the claim.  
What happened
QIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. its the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the agent appointed by QIC, which QIC accepts its accountable for. Any 
reference to QIC includes the actions of its agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary 
here.
Miss Gs property is insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by QIC. 
In July 2021, Miss G contacted QIC to make a claim on the policy as her 
conservatory was pulling away from the house and was showing signs of damage. 
QIC investigated the claim and undertook various site visits over the coming months. 
This included, amongst other things, a CCTV survey of the drains and a survey of 
local vegetation to establish if these were the cause of the damage. 
After this, QIC said it was fully reviewing the claim and planned to undertake a further 
visit to ensure everything had been assessed. It said it contacted Miss G in June 
2022 and she let it know there had been problems previously and she had registered 
a claim in 2019 but didnt go ahead with it.
QIC said shed let it know that during the dry summer months the wall had expanded 
and then moved back in winter. Miss Gs builder at the time had undertaken some 
remedial work although seemed unsure of the cause of the movement.
QIC said there was no damage to the main house and the conservatory damage was 
as a result of differential movement. It concluded the cause of the damage was 
inadequate conservatory foundations and it declined the claim as this was excluded 
under the policy. Miss G complained but QIC maintained its position on the claim 
decline but apologised for the length of time the claim took, although it said it had 
been fully investigating throughout.
Miss G broadly accepted the decline of the claim but was unhappy with how long QIC 
took to let her know and she brought a complaint about this to our Service. Our 
Investigator considered the evidence and concluded the claim had taken longer than 
it should have and said QIC should pay £200 compensation. But he didnt think there 
was enough evidence to show the delays had altered the extent of the repairs 
required. Miss G disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G seems to have accepted the decline of the claim and so the focus of my 
decision is on whether the time QIC took to decline the claim was reasonable. 
QIC says it was investigating the cause of the damage across the whole time under 
review and while I accept that it did consider a number of different possible causes 
and this inherently would take time, Im not persuaded the claim decline should have 
taken as long as it did. 
Ive looked carefully through the evidence and I can see there were some avoidable 
delays. For example a report on local vegetation was undertaken and provided to 
QIC in February 2022 but not actioned further for several months after that.
Overall, Im not satisfied QIC provided its decline decision as quickly as it should 
have done and because of this, its let Miss G down and this caused her distress and 
inconvenience. And Ill be keeping this in mind when considering the award I make. 
Miss G says that while she was waiting for the claim decision, the damage to the 
conservatory got worse and the repairs will cost more and she considers QIC 
responsible for this. She says the engineer had initially said it could be fixed by using 
vertical expanding strips. Following the claim decline, Miss G arranged for a 
conservatory installation contractor to look at the damage and she says they 
concluded the conservatory would need to be completely rebuilt which would cost 
significantly more. 
It seems this information was given to Miss G verbally, and Ive not been given any 
supporting evidence to confirm why this complete rebuild would now be necessary or 
indeed how much it would cost. Our Investigator invited Miss G to provide further 
evidence after he sent his view but no more was submitted. 
So, Im not persuaded theres enough expert evidence to show that, if QIC had 
reached the claim decision earlier, the repairs required would have differed to the 
extent Miss G claims. Overall, Im not satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for me 
to direct QIC to do anything more in this regard.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, I think QIC caused Miss G distress and 
inconvenience through its poor complaint handling. Ive thought carefully about this 
and, keeping in mind this Services general approach to awards, have decided QIC 
should pay Miss G £200 in acknowledgement of the shortcomings in its service.
I acknowledge Miss G is unlikely to consider this sufficient, but Im satisfied its fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd to pay Miss G 
£200 for the impact of its poor complaint handling.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Miss G accepts my decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of the payment at 8% a year 
simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman