DRN-4124065
The complaint
Mr W complains that a broker working for Connells Limited didnt act fast enough to secure 
for him a mortgage with favourable rates. He said hes ended up paying much more each 
month because of this.
What happened
Mr W was moving house, so he started the process of applying for a mortgage through 
Connells. He told us that, although he was clear on the mortgage he wanted, Connells 
broker didnt secure that mortgage with his preferred lender. So when interest rates went up, 
and his preferred lender stopped offering that rate, Mr W didnt get the deal he wanted.
Mr W said he was paying around £1,000 more per month on the mortgage on his new home
because of this. He also anticipated increased costs when he had to remortgage, which
would now happen much earlier. He wanted Connells to cover these extra costs. Mr W said,
based on the interest rates he anticipated having to pay in late 2024, he thought Connells
should pay between £90,000 and £124,000 in compensation.
Mr W sent us an email hed sent to his broker, saying that he wanted to lock in the interest
rate theyd discussed, of 1.24%. This email isnt dated, but it seems to have been sent after
the initial discussions with the broker, on 1 November 2021, and after Mr W sent the
requested documents on 2 November, and before their scheduled meeting on 8 November.
Mr W also told our service that hed spoken to the broker over the phone, and said he would
be going ahead with his preferred lender unless the broker found a better rate.
Connells said its broker had an initial discussion with Mr W, and emailed him a rate that
might be available, but no formal recommendation had been made. Before Mr W could have
his mortgage appointment, Mr Ws preferred lender withdrew this rate. Connells said its
broker had found Mr W a similar rate, but it understood Mr W had decided not to go ahead.
Connells said its broker couldnt submit an application until a formal recommendation was
made. And it was satisfied that the broker had found an alternative lender with a similar rate
for Mr W.
When this case came to our service, Connells also asked its broker for his recollection of the
process. He said that Mr Ws existing mortgage had a sizeable early repayment charge
(ERC) so they needed to have a discussion, to see if he would be better off porting his
existing mortgage, and not paying this charge, rather than taking out the new mortgage.
The broker said hed offered Mr W an appointment, to have that discussion, on Wednesday
3 November, or Thursday, Friday or Saturday of that week. He showed us his diary, to
demonstrate he had availability at the time. But he said Mr W couldnt attend until the next
week, on Monday 8 November. The broker also said hed found Mr W a different mortgage
product, which actually had slightly lower monthly payments. But the broker said this was
never discussed with Mr W, because as soon as he told Mr W that the first rate theyd
discussed had been pulled by his preferred lender, Mr W decided not to use the brokers
services.
Mr W sent us details of the mortgage he did eventually take. He said he decided to port his
existing mortgage, and take a little more borrowing from his pre-existing lender. Mr W said
he now calculated the cost to him of doing this, instead of the mortgage he wanted with the
lender discussed with Connells, would be around £70,000.
Mr W actually sent us two mortgage offers from his pre-existing lender. He said he needed
to get a second offer, because the first offer he got from his pre-existing lender was only
valid for six months, and it expired before he completed the purchase of his new property.
Mr W said he realised the same might have happened with any offer from his preferred
lender, as discussed with Connells in early November 2021. He told us he completed his
property purchase at the end of June 2022, but he thought a decision in principle (DIP)
from his preferred lender would have been valid for 60 to 90 days. Assuming that was then
followed by a mortgage offer which was valid for six months, Mr W said that would have
taken him well beyond the completion date.
Mr W said hed spoken to his preferred lender directly, after the rate he wanted was
withdrawn. That lender told him that if the broker had obtained a DIP for him, then that might
have been honoured.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Connells wasnt
responsible for Mr Ws preferred lender pulling its rate from the market. The mortgage
illustrations Connells had sent to Mr W were valid only on the day they were produced.
Connells couldnt go ahead with a full application for Mr W before it had made a
recommendation. And it couldnt do that without a discussion with Mr W, to see if he would
be better off applying for a new loan, and paying the repayment charges on his pre-existing
mortgage. Additionally, our investigator said that it was Mr Ws decision to delay this
discussion until 8 November, He was offered appointments between 3 and 6 November.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed explicitly instructed Connells to proceed with the mortgage
application on 2 November 2021, and he said there was nothing in its email correspondence
which suggested this process would be delayed or required any further input from him. He
said hed even chased on 4 November to ensure the rate he wanted was locked in.
Mr W said given that hed sent all the documents, and asked Connells to go ahead, he
wanted to know how this hadnt happened. He said he understood hed have to pay the ERC
with his pre-existing lender, hed already discussed that with Connells.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said that even if the broker had completed a DIP
with Mr Ws preferred lender on 2 November 2021, this wouldnt have secured the interest
rate with that lender. A lender could still pull interest rates from the market at any time 
which unfortunately is what happened in this case.
Our investigator also said that Mr W did need to complete a full application, and for that he
needed to go through the interview with the broker which was scheduled (at Mr Ws request)
for 8 November, although earlier appointments were offered to him. There was nothing
Connells broker could do about the fact that the rate had been pulled by this time. He did
have another mortgage product to recommend to Mr W, but that apparently wasnt
discussed with him, as Mr W didnt want to go ahead.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed only shared written evidence, but Connells was relying on
phone conversations, which couldnt be corroborated. He said it wasnt true that he was
offered a meeting on 3 to 6 November, as Connells had claimed. And he said hed told
Connells about the deal he wanted, it wasnt something that Connells had sourced for him.Hed told Connells "if you can beat that great, then otherwise let's just go with that". So he
said hed expected Connells to apply for this mortgage on his behalf. Hed sent all the
documents Connells asked for, and followed up with an email to check the rate was locked
in. But it wasnt.
Mr W said if hed applied directly to his preferred lender, then he would have got the rate he
wanted. And not getting this would significantly impact him financially over the next four to
five years.
Our investigator said that the advised application process doesnt work like this. Mr W could
have obtained the mortgage directly from the first lender without advice. But hed requested
advice from Connells, and the rate was then pulled before this could be given.
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Unfortunately, I think there would be a significant number of hurdles for Mr W to get 
over, before I could fairly and reasonably uphold this complaint. Id need to decide that 
Mr W had made a decision which justified the broker in applying for a DIP (although Mr 
Ws recollection of his phone conversations suggests he was open to other options, if a 
better deal could be secured) and that this DIP should have been secured before a full 
application interview. And that the lender would then have honoured the rate in the DIP 
after pulling this rate from the market (which Mr W has only ever suggested was a 
possibility). Also, Id need to decide that Mr W would have got an offer from this lender, 
and would have accepted the offer, choosing to pay just under £27,000 in upfront costs 
to clear the ERC on his existing mortgage.
But I havent reached final conclusions on all of those issues. Thats because, even if Mr 
W could get over those hurdles, I still think its unlikely that Mr W would ever have taken 
up any resulting mortgage offer from his preferred lender, because of the length of time 
between his discussions with Connells, and his eventual purchase.
Mr W has argued that, if Connells had acted as it ought to have done, hed have 
obtained a DIP from his preferred lender, at the rate he wanted, in November. He says 
he would then have converted this to an actual offer 60 to 90 days later, meaning the 
mortgage offer would still have been valid when he eventually completed on his property 
in late June 2022. 
But I dont think thats whats most likely to have happened here. I think Mr W would 
have wanted to obtain the security of an actual mortgage offer, which couldnt be 
withdrawn, promptly in November 2021. I think this because thats what Mr W actually 
did do, when he decided not to go ahead with any application through Connells  he 
spoke to his pre-existing lender and obtained an offer, in late November, which was 
valid for six months.
We know Mr W was confident he could move within the following six months  he made
other decisions based on this. But we also know he wasnt able to do so, and his offer 
from his pre-existing lender unfortunately expired before he could complete his 
purchase.So I dont think that, even if Mr W could get over the other hurdles to his argument, I 
could fairly and reasonably ask Connells to make the sort of payment to him that hes 
seeking in this case. Thats because I think that, even if Connells had secured for Mr W 
the rate he wanted, any resulting mortgage offer would have been obtained by late 
November at the latest. It would still have been valid for no more than six months. So it 
would have expired before he bought his home. And with the rise in interest rates, I 
dont think its at all likely that Mr Ws preferred lender would have agreed to extend the 
offer beyond that six months. I think its likely that this lender would have taken the same 
stance his pre-existing lender did, and not extended an offer made at a much lower rate 
than was then available.
For those reasons, I dont think Connells has to make the payment that Mr W has
suggested. I know that Mr W will be very disappointed, but my provisional view is that 
his complaint shouldnt be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman