DRN-3780727
The complaint
Mrs S and the estate of Mr S, complain about the fall in the value of an investment bond and 
the poor service Mrs Ss representative has received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva).
Mrs S and the estate of Mr S, are represented in this matter. 
What happened
I understand that Mrs S and the late Mr S took out a FlexiBond in 1999. The bond was set 
up to pay £75 per month, as long as the value of the bond remained over £1,000, for the rest 
of both Mr and Mrs Ss life.
In late 2019 Mr S very sadly passed away. On 8 January 2020, Mrs Ss representative 
notified Aviva that Mr S had died. Aviva wrote to Mrs S on 18 January 2020, asking for sight 
of the original death certificate so that it could update its records.
Unfortunately, shortly afterwards, in February 2020, the value of the bond fell below £1,000. 
In line with the terms of the bond, Aviva wrote to Mrs S to explain that due to the fall in the 
value of the bond it was no longer possible for it to pay the regular payments of £75 per 
month. The letter said that Mrs S would need to surrender the bond and provided the 
necessary payment release form for Mrs S to complete. 
On 6 March 2020, Aviva received Mrs Ss instruction to surrender the bond and pay the 
proceeds to her bank account.  However, as Aviva had not had sight of the death certificate 
it was not able to release the money to Mrs S.
On 18 March 2020, it appears that Aviva spoke to another member of Mrs Ss family, and 
she confirmed that she would arrange for the death certificate to be sent to Aviva. For 
whatever reason the certificate was not sent to Aviva, and it was therefore unable to update 
its records or pay the surrender value of the bond to Mrs S.
Mrs Ss representative complained to Aviva. He said he felt the letter it had sent to Mrs S in 
February 2020 was cold and that the payment release form had pages missing.  He also 
queried why the value of the bond had fallen in value quite significantly. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said it appreciated that this was a difficult time for Mrs S 
and confirmed that once it had received the death certificate it would be able to update its 
records and pay the surrender value of the bond to Mrs S.
Mrs Ss representative wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
Our investigator said he didnt think Aviva had acted incorrectly or treated Mrs S unfairly. 
He noted that Aviva had explained the drop in the value of the bond was due to market 
conditions as stock markets had fallen significantly in early 2020. He also explained that 
Aviva couldnt update its records to reflect that Mrs S was the sole policyholder until a death 
certificate had been provided. The investigator explained that this was why some letters had 
been addressed to Mr and Mrs S. 
The investigator also confirmed that Aviva wouldnt be able to pay the surrender value to Mrs 
S until Aviva had sight of the death certificate for the late Mr S.
In relation to the poor service Mrs Ss representative had received from Aviva, our 
investigator noted that Aviva accepted that it hadnt returned calls to Mrs Ss representative. 
But he explained that this service cannot make awards for distress and inconvenience 
suffered by representatives. 
Mr Ss representative responded to say that Mrs S did not accept our investigators view. He 
said he felt Aviva had failed miserably in its customer service to a recently bereaved family. 
He explained that he felt Aviva should have done much more to assist him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mrs Ss position and that of her representative and I would like to offer 
my sincere condolences for their loss.
I have very carefully considered all that Mrs Ss representative has said and provided in 
connection with this complaint. Having done so, although I do appreciate that he feels the 
service Aviva has provided has been very unsatisfactory, I dont think Aviva has acted 
incorrectly or treated Mrs S unfairly. Ill explain why.
I do understand that in early 2020, when Mrs Ss representative contacted Aviva, he would 
have had a lot of administrative matters to deal with as he had to notify numerous institutions 
that Mr S had passed away, as well as coping with his grief. This is often a very difficult time, 
and we expect businesses to be mindful of the additional worry and upset a delay or error 
can cause a recently bereaved customer.
I can see that the letter Aviva sent in February 2020 might have caused Mrs S and her 
representative concern, particularly as they had expected the payment of £75 per month to 
continue for the rest of Mrs Ss life. However, I cant reasonably find that Aviva acted 
incorrectly when it sent this letter. I think it was important for it to notify Mrs S promptly that 
the payment would not be continuing as the value of the bond had fallen below £1,000. I 
appreciate that Mrs Ss representative found the letter cold. I do understand why he feels 
the letter lacked empathy, but having reviewed the letter I dont think there is anything in it 
that I could reasonably find inappropriate.
I have also carefully considered whether Aviva made sufficient requests for sight of the 
original death certificate for the late Mr S. I appreciate that the letter Aviva sent, dated 18 
January 2020 may have been overlooked, particularly as it would have arrived when Mrs S 
and her family would have had a lot of additional administration to deal with. But I must take 
into account that Avivas records show it also requested sight of the certificate when it spoke 
to another family member on 18 March 2020. It also reiterated that it required sight of the 
certificate in the letter it sent dated 17 July 2020, in response to Mrs Ss complaint. As the 
records show that Aviva made three separate requests for sight of the certificate between 
January and July 2020, I cant reasonably find that it acted unreasonably or unfairly. 
I appreciate that Mrs Ss representative feels very strongly that Aviva should have done 
more to assist him, and I appreciate that its failure to return his calls, despite having promised to do so caused him distress and inconvenience. But, as our investigator 
explained, as Mrs S wasnt impacted by Avivas failure to return the calls, as her 
representative was shielding her from the poor service by dealing with Aviva on her behalf, I 
cant order Aviva to pay any compensation to Mrs S - and I dont have the power to order it 
to pay compensation to her representative. 
I do understand that this is not the decision Mrs S and her representative were hoping for. I 
appreciate they feel Aviva should be censured for its poor service. However, I dont have the 
power to order a business to change its processes or take disciplinary action against a 
business. That is the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). If 
Mrs S or her representative wish to pursue their wider concerns about Avivas service, they 
may wish to raise this with the FCA.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I am not able to uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman