DRN-2940300
The complaint
Mr H complained that Tandem Bank Limited failed to offer alternative repayment options 
when they told him they were going to cancel his credit card account with them. 
What happened
Mr H held a credit card under Tandems Tandem Membership package. The package was 
subject to a monthly fee of £5.99 and included an interest free credit card and a loyalty 
interest rate on his Tandem account.
Tandem emailed Mr H on 3 September 2020 about his Tandem Membership. They said that 
his credit card would be closing, and he would need to repay his balance by 3 February 
2021. But Mr H wasnt in a position to repay the amount owed by that date. So, he contacted 
Tandem.
Mr H told Tandem that he couldnt repay what he owed by 3 February 2021 and asked them 
what other options were available. Tandem suggested that he could transfer the outstanding 
balance to another credit card provider or arrange a personal loan.  
Tandem sent further emails to remind Mr H that he needed to repay the outstanding balance 
by 3 February 2021. Each time, Mr H contacted Tandem using their online chat service. He 
suggested agreeing a Payment Plan to help him repay what he owed. But Tandem werent 
able to do that. Tandem said they didnt know what options would be available, but they 
would contact him once things were clearer.
On 4 February 2021, Tandem emailed Mr H and said that he could apply for an interest free 
loan to repay the amount he owed. This was provided by another company. Mr Hs 
application was agreed, the loan was set up and his outstanding credit card balance was 
cleared.
But Mr H remained unhappy. He said that Tandems failure to offer a solution or alternative 
before 4 February had caused him unnecessary distress and concern. Throughout the 
period, hed been worried that failure to repay what was owed would lead to a default and an 
adverse impact on his credit file. So, he complained to Tandem.
Tandem responded to Mr Hs complaint by email on 17 March 2021. They apologised if Mr H 
felt hed received conflicting information. But they didnt agree that theyd treated Mr H 
unfairly. Mr H wasnt happy with their response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. He didnt think that Tandem needed to do 
anything more here. Mr H disagreed, He said that Tandem didnt attempt to help him prior to 
3 February 2021. He believed that Tandem had a responsibility to treat him fairly and theyd 
failed to do that here. So, he asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 3 September 2020, Tandem wrote to Mr H to explain the changes they were making to 
their Tandem Membership. Their email said that the Tandem Cashback Credit Card would 
be closing and that hed need to repay his balance in full by 3 February 2021. They also said 
he wouldnt be able to use the card after 2 November 2020.
Tandems decision to close their credit card offering was a business one. It isnt something 
that this service would seek to challenge. It was their choice. But it is important that any 
changes are made in line with their terms and conditions and any impact upon Mr H is 
managed fairly. Mr H has accepted this, and his complaint is not aimed at Tandems 
decision. Mr Hs complaint relates to what he believes is Tandems failure to provide 
alternative solutions for repaying what he owed and the resultant distress this caused.
Tandems emails said, In case you need help with repaying your balance, please contact us 
and we can discuss options. Mr H said that he contacted Tandem and told them that he 
wouldnt be able to repay what he owed by the final date of 3 February 2021. He said that 
their only suggestions were to arrange a balance transfer or a personal loan with another 
provider. But Mr H wasnt able to do this. 
Mr H also said that he contacted Tandem each time he received an email to explain his 
concerns. He was worried that failure to repay by 3 February 2021 would lead to a default.
Mr H said that he chose to communicate with Tandem through their online chat service. 
Unfortunately, hes no longer able to access these chat records. But Tandem have provided 
this service with copies of chat conversations between December 2020 and February 2021.
A chat exchange dated 21 December 2020 shows that Mr H asked Tandem, What happens 
if I dont repay by yourdate?. Tandem told Mr H As my colleaguetold you in 
September, you will be able to continue to pay after February. Its just that from 3 February 
your interest could go upIf you have any financial circumstances which would make paying 
back by this time impossible, please let us know. Equally, once we inform you of the interest 
rate increase you can let us know at that point if you think its unaffordable.
There were further chat exchanges where Mr H told Tandem of his concerns. Tandem said 
We understand that not all of our customers are able to pay off the balance, however, Im 
still unable to confirm what the next steps are. Apologies for this. Tandem will be in touch.
In a chat exchange on 2 February 2021, Tandem said, this will not cause a default 
hereWe will make sure the company we transfer your balance to will treat you fairly. They 
will work with you to find the right amount you can pay each month and seek to put you on a 
relevant payment planyou will not be treated like you are in collections and will not be 
defaulted as long as you are making the payments.
Ultimately, Mr H feels that Tandems emails contradicted what he was told during the chat 
exchanges. I do understand why Mr H feels this way. Template email communications are 
designed to be sent to a large number of customers. But, on each occasion, they 
recommended speaking to Tandem about any concerns. Thats what Mr H did here. 
I can also understand why Mr H felt frustrated as Tandem werent able to provide an 
immediate solution. This was clearly unfortunate, but at no point did his account default. I am 
comfortable that it was made clear that this was still being worked on and Tandem tried to 
reassure Mr H. The situation resulted from a change in Tandems account offering and Mr H 
was informed correctly under their terms and conditions. Tandem would only be obliged to 
explore other options once the deadline date had been reached.
Ultimately, Tandem were able to organise an interest free loan option through another 
company, which Mr H was happy to accept.  So, Mr H didnt suffer financially here. 
I realise that Mr H will be disappointed, but I dont agree that Tandem have treated him 
unfairly here. There is nothing to suggest that Tandems actions caused Mr H any financial 
difficulties or that they would commence recovery proceedings. I believe they continued to 
reassure him and ensure that he wasnt negatively impacted once the repayment date was 
reached. So, on balance, I dont believe it would be fair to ask them to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman