DRN-2422833
The complaint
Mr M complains that Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) pursued him for debts that arent his. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr M received a letter about an outstanding debt in relation to someone who has a 
very similar name. Mr M contacted Arrow to say it was chasing the wrong person and it 
agreed to contact the original lender to clarify the details of the debt. The process took 
several months and Mr M complained. 
Arrow responded on 28 February 2020 and said the credit reference agencies had 
incorrectly linked Mr Ms identity with someone else. Arrow said it would update its accounts 
to ensure it wouldnt use Mr Ms address any more and told him to contact the credit 
reference agencies. Arrow offered Mr M £50 compensation.
On 11 March 2020 Arrow wrote to Mr M about a different debt, again for someone with a 
similar name. Mr M complained again and referred his case to this service.  Mr M sent us a 
copy of his credit file that shows Arrow has a debt registered at his address.
An investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint and upheld it. They asked Arrow to take various 
steps to ensure the problem wasnt repeated and increased the total compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused from £50 to £250. Mr M has confirmed he will accept. 
Our investigator issued their findings on 26 October 2020. No response from Arrow was 
received despite reminders sent on 9 November 2020, 16 November 2020 and 24 
November 2020. On 10 December 2020 the investigator contacted Arrow and said that, 
because it hadnt responded, the case would be referred for appeal. A further copy of the 
investigators findings was sent to Arrow. I contacted Arrow on 18 January 2021 and asked it 
to respond to the investigators view. I explained that if no response was received, I would 
proceed to issue the final decision. As Arrow hasnt responded to the investigators findings 
despite reminders, Mr Ms case has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator said, on 28 February 2020 Arrow told Mr M it would remove his details 
from its systems to stop contact about debts that arent his. But under two weeks later Arrow 
wrote to him about another debt causing Mr M to complain further. I can understand why Mr 
M remains dissatisfied. 
All parties agree that Mr M isnt responsible for the debts in question. Arrow says the credit 
reference agencies linked Mr Ms details to the other individual. But no evidence of that has 
been provided and Mr M has sent us a copy of his credit file that shows no other entries for 
the individual in question. I agree Arrow needs to take steps to stop reporting debts on Mr 
Ms credit file. 
Our investigator said it was important for Arrow to stop contacting Mr M about someone 
elses debts and I agree. The findings recommended Arrow removes Mr Ms address from its 
systems, stop writing to him and cease reporting the accounts at his address. The findings 
also said Arrow should contact the credit reference agencies and request removal of the 
incorrect item from Mr Ms credit file, along with any links to the other individual. Arrow hasnt 
responded to say any of the above remedies arent possible. I agree that Arrow needs to 
take an active role in trying to remove the information it has reported on Mr Ms credit file. 
And I think the steps the investigator has asked Arrow to take are reasonable.
The investigator also asked Arrow to increase the total award from £50 to £250. Given the 
length of time the matter has gone on and continued contact Mr M received, I can 
understand why he is upset. I agree that a figure of £250 more fairly reflects the impact of 
this situation on Mr M so Im going to endorse the investigators award. 
The complaint was upheld on 26 October 2020 and we asked Arrow to respond two weeks 
later. Several further requests for a response have been sent to Arrow, along with 
confirmation that the complaint was being passed to an ombudsman. I dont think its fair on 
Mr M to hold the case up further and, as Ive said above, Im satisfied the settlement 
recommended by the investigator is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this case. As a 
result, Im going to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- Remove Mr Ms address from its systems
- Stop contacting Mr M in pursuit of its customer
- Stop reporting the account in question on Mr Ms credit file
- Contact the credit reference agencies to ensure removal the incorrectly reported item 
from Mr Ms credit file
- Contact the credit reference agencies and request all links between Mr M and its 
customer be removed
- Pay Mr M a total of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation already paid)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman