DRN-4196455
The complaint
Mr S complains about Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) not renewing his 
motor insurance policy. 
This decision concerns Hastings as the insurance broker responsible for arranging and 
administering Mr Ss policy. It doesnt concern the insurer of the policy.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy taken out through Hastings, which hed had for several 
years. In March 2023, shortly before his policy was due for renewal, Hastings contacted Mr 
S to say they couldnt renew his policy. They said theyd searched their panel of insurers to 
find a renewal price for his policy, but none of them would offer one. So, Mr Ss policy would 
end at the beginning of April 2023. Hastings didnt give a reason for not offering to renew the 
policy, but suggested Mr S check price comparison websites to see what options might be 
available for him to take out cover. 
As his circumstances hadnt changed and he hadnt made any claims in the year, Mr S was 
unhappy at Hastings not offering to renew his policy or providing a reason why they wouldnt. 
As Hastings wouldnt renew his policy, Mr Ss sister (the registered owner of the vehicle) 
took out a new policy. But as she couldnt use the No Claims Discount (NCD) Mr S had built 
up through his policy through Hastings, the new policy premium was over £700 (compared to 
the premium of just under £300 Mr S had previously paid). So, Mr S complained to Hastings. 
Hastings didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said they werent always 
able to continue to offer cover when a policy came up for renewal. They said insurers set 
standards on what risks they were  or werent  willing to cover. And these standards were 
reviewed on a continuous basis. So, sometimes a renewal wouldnt be offered, even where a 
policyholders details hadnt changed. When preparing renewal notices, Hastings did this at 
least 28 days before the renewal date, so policyholders had time to decide whether to renew 
their policy or  if a renewal wasnt offered  time to take out a new policy. Hastings also 
said they couldnt offer to renew the policy, even if Mr S was willing to pay a higher premium.
Mr S then complained to this service. He couldnt see why Hastings had refused to renew his 
policy, and they wouldnt tell him why he wasnt offered a renewal. Taking out insurance 
elsewhere meant a much higher premium (over £400 more than hed previously paid and a 
higher premium was likely to continue in the future). Mr S wanted a full explanation of why 
Hastings wouldnt renew his policy and a quote (based on his nine years NCD) of what a 
reasonable premium would be. He also wanted compensation for the higher premium on the 
new policy taken out (around £400 more than the premium under the policy with Hastings).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied Hastings checked with their 
panel of insurers, but none would offer cover for Mr S. While Mr S had insured through 
Hastings for several years, they werent obliged to provide a policy for Mr S. The investigator 
said insurers set their own criteria about what risks and events they were willing to cover, 
which might change on a regular basis. But again, they werent obliged to offer a policy to Mr 
S. Nor were Hastings obliged to ask their panel of insurers why they wouldnt offer cover to 
Mr S. Mr S had said he didnt want to access price comparison websites as he didnt want to 
receive unwanted calls or emails. But that was his choice, as was his sisters choice to take 
out a policy at higher cost. So, Hastings werent responsible for the higher cost.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He didnt think Hastings had acted fairly or reasonably towards him, as a 
policyholder for up to 15 years with them. While hed previously had to challenge renewal 
premium increases, more recently premium increase had been less, which hed accepted. 
He thought Hastings should either provide him with a quote or say why they couldnt. And 
this wouldnt affect Hastings assessment of risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Hastings have acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issue in Mr Ss complaint is whether Hastings have acted fairly and reasonably in 
not providing a renewal quote (from their panel of insurers) or a reason why they couldnt 
provide a quote. Mr S says this isnt fair or reasonable (even if it didnt contravene any legal 
requirements). Consequently, he (his sister) have had to take out cover elsewhere at a 
significantly higher cost. Hastings say they cant always offer to renew a policy if their panel 
of insurers arent prepared to provide a quote. And that insurers set (and change) standards 
which mean they can decide not to offer cover  even where the policyholders 
circumstances havent changed, and they havent made a claim.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the information and evidence available 
from Mr S and Hastings. Ive concluded Hastings havent acted unfairly or unreasonably. I 
know this will disappoint Mr S, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
The first point Ive considered is that Hastings are an insurance broker, who arrange and 
administer motor insurance policies on behalf of the insurer (who underwrite the policy). 
Under this arrangement, a policyholder (when taking out a policy) enters into two contracts. 
The first contract is between the policyholder and the insurer (the name of which appears on 
the policyholders certificate of motor insurance). Under this contract, the insurer is the 
company that provides the policyholders motor insurance. The second contract is between 
the policyholder and Hastings, who arrange and administer the policy. As such, Hastings will 
arrange the renewal (or cancellation) of the policy.
At renewal, Hastings will obtain quotes from the panel of insurers they use to provide motor 
insurance policies. But it is the decision of those insurers on whether to offer a policy (either 
at renewal or as new business). It isnt the decision of Hastings, as the broker. In this case, 
when Hastings approached their panel to obtain renewal quotes, none were willing to 
provide a quote. Ive no reason to doubt what Hastings have said about their approaching 
their panel of insurers and none being willing to quote. So, I cant hold Hastings responsible 
for the responses from their panel of insurers.
I recognise Mr Ss frustration that, having had a policy arranged through Hastings for many 
years, they werent able to offer renewal of his policy when it became due in 2023. The date 
of the letter in which Hastings told Mr S about the non-renewal of his policy is 28 days before 
the expiry of his policy. I think thats a reasonable notice period in which Mr S would have 
been able to look for alternative cover elsewhere (either through price comparison websites, 
other brokers or through direct contact with insurers). Mr S says he wasnt willing to use 
price comparison websites because of the risk of unwanted calls or emails. However, thats 
Mr Ss choice, which again I cant hold Hastings responsible. While his sister was able to arrange cover, she wouldnt have been able to utilise the nine years NCD Mr S had built up 
under his policy (only Mr S would have been able to do so, and Hastingss letter confirmed 
his NCD entitlement). This is what Id expect Hastings to do, so the decision of Mr S not to 
use price comparison websites (and his sisters taking out a new policy) arent things I can 
reasonably hold Hastings responsible for.
The other main element of Mr Ss complaint is that Hastings didnt provide him with a reason 
(a full explanation) of why they werent able to offer renewal of his policy. While I can 
understand this being frustrating to Mr S, given his circumstances hadnt changed and he 
hadnt made a claim, Hastings arent obliged (nor are the insurers on their panel) to provide 
a reason why they werent willing to provide a quote for renewal. Its standard practice for 
insurers to regularly review their assessment of risks under a policy. These will take account 
of many factors, including the number and values of claims (both generally and in specific 
localities, as well as for particular vehicle types and models). 
These factors will be distinct from the specific personal circumstances of a policyholder 
(including their location, claims history, any motoring or other offences). This information will 
be specific to an insurer and is commercially sensitive. So, it isnt something Hastings (or the 
insurers) are obliged to provide. So, I cant say Hastings (or the insurers) have acted 
unreasonably in not disclosing to Mr S why they didnt provide a renewal quote.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman