DRN-3294765
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Grove and Dean Ltd, a motor insurance broker. It took a 
cancellation fee from Mr D shortly after he had applied for a motor insurance policy with it, 
before the policy had begun and because it had been unable to validate the cover.
What happened
Mr D used a price comparison website to find cover, and, having completed some details, he 
was forwarded to Grove and Dean. Mr D was asked to complete more details including 
giving Grove and Dean a contact telephone number. Mr D says he didnt do this as he 
doesnt have a telephone. The acceptance page of the application said that even within the 
first 14 days, if the policy was cancelled, thered be a £55 cancellation fee. 
Mr D agreed to the policy and paid Grove and Dean £85 for the years cover. The payment 
confirmation sent by Grove and Dean included a warning for Mr D to check his contact 
details as it would need to speak with him to confirm the policy. The payment confirmation 
showed a contact telephone number for Mr D of 01000000000.
At some point, according to Mr D, he was emailed by Grove and Dean. But Grove and Dean 
were unable to speak to Mr D. Seemingly, following further email contact by Mr D, and at his 
request, the policy was cancelled. Grove and Dean refunded £30 to Mr D  being the 
premium for the policy which hadnt started yet, less the £55 cancellation fee. It then 
returned a further £25 to Mr D. But wouldnt return the remaining £30 of the £85 hed paid it. 
Mr D felt that was unfair because the policy had never started or even been confirmed by 
Grove and Dean. He said hed lost that £30, and incurred more costs as hed had to stay 
with a more expensive insurer or risk potentially facing a similar problem as that encountered 
with Grove and Dean. He complained to us.
Our investigator felt Mr D had been given fair warning that Grove and Dean would need to 
speak to him and that cancellation within the first 14 days would attract a £55 cancellation 
fee. So he wasnt persuaded Grove and Dean had done anything wrong by cancelling the 
cover or withholding £30 from the premium refund paid to Mr D.
Mr D said that it seemed Grove and Dean were refusing to honour the policy he had paid for 
 so it wasnt fair for it to keep any part of his money. He maintained he hadnt entered a 
telephone number as he doesnt have one  and that the request for a phone number during 
the application only came within an erratic pop-up box which he hadnt seen. He said that if 
a number was so important for Grove and Dean, the application should have failed without 
payment being taken. Mr D said he remained confused over the insistence of or a need for a 
telephone number to be given as Grove and Dean had contacted him by email. 
Mr Ds complaint was passed to me for consideration. I felt Grove and Dean couldnt fairly 
keep any part of the £85 Mr D had paid to it. So I issued a provisional decision explaining 
this; that it should return the remaining £30 to him plus interest. Grove and Dean said it 
accepted my findings. Mr D said he had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
I note that the only evidence Grove and Dean sent this service in defence of it keeping £30 
of Mr Ds money was a copy of its final response letter sent to Mr D. That letter contained in 
it two sample screen shots taken from the general application process. On the basis of that 
evidence alone Grove and Dean says it did enough to tell Mr D during the application 
process that a phone number was required and that a cancellation fee would be charged if 
the policy was cancelled within the first 14 days. I accept that in respect of the cancellation 
fee, Grove and Dean is correct. But Im not persuaded that before the application was 
completed, Mr D was given clear notice that he must provide a telephone number.
There is no suggestion from the screen shots that the telephone number detail must be filled 
in. For example, there is no marker against the request for this information which would 
suggest to the reader it is compulsory information  without which the application will fail. 
And Grove and Dean hasnt shown that leaving this detail blank would cause the application 
to stall or fail. Clearly the payment confirmation contained a contact telephone number. But 
that number seems to me like a default number a system might generate, rather than a 
number a person might create to trick a system. And, considering the screen shots, I think 
Mr D is likely mostly correct in what he says  the information or warning at least about the 
importance of the phone number appears to only be given in a pop-up box. As such, Im not 
persuaded this detail is always and automatically visible to the applicant.
Also from the screen shots I see that the prospective policyholder must mark the application 
to say they agree with the terms and conditions of cover. I havent seen that the terms have 
to be opened and read for agreement to be made. Nor have I seen that they contain a 
requirement for a telephone number to be given. If the application required a clear request 
for that, I might be minded to think of that as a term Mr D had accepted when he agreed to 
the cover  but as I said, the detail of that only appears in a pop-up box. That isnt clear. 
The payment confirmation very clearly stated, several times, that Grove and Dean would 
need to speak to Mr D to confirm the cover. But I think Mr D has a point when he says that, 
by this time, he was already locked in to the policy. And I accept he was in a bit of quandary 
as he didnt have a phone number and hadnt been aware that one was needed to progress 
the policy he had already paid for and which he could now only cancel by losing £55 of the 
£85 hed paid for a whole year of cover. Thats a huge proportion. 
Whilst I note that Grove and Dean later agreed to refund Mr D £25 of that £55, I still dont 
think that is enough in the circumstances here. I can absolutely understand why Grove and 
Dean might choose to complete its policy validation work by phone. And it is allowed to 
choose how it does that type of work. Thats a commercial decision the like of which this 
service wont usually interfere with. But if it wants to do things that way  whilst charging a 
fee for those who cant accommodate its method  I think it has to be really clear about that 
in the application process. As noted above, I think the payment confirmation was really clear 
about this  but that the application before payment was not. I think that, if it had been, Mr D 
wouldnt have accepted the cover. In the circumstances I dont think its fair for Grove and 
Dean to keep any part of the £85 Mr D paid to it. Itll have to refund to him the outstanding 
£30, plus interest.
I know Mr D feels he was unable to change his cover following this incident with Grove and 
Dean. But Im not persuaded I can reasonably blame it, having failed Mr D here, for him losing faith in all insurance providers. So Im not minded to make Grove and Dean 
compensate Mr D for his reported increased cost of insurance.
Grove and Dean has accepted my provisional findings, and Mr D has said nothing in 
objection to them. So Ive no need to change them. They are now the findings of this, my 
final decision. 
Putting things right
I require Grove and Dean to pay Mr D £30, plus 8% simple interest* per year from the date 
cover was paid for until settlement is made.
*If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be 
provided to Mr D for HMRC purposes.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Grove and Dean Ltd to provide the redress set out above at 
putting things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman