DRN-2335019
The complaint
Mrs W complains that she was given misleading information about her suitability for a further 
advance on her mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc and that NatWest refused to 
provide her with information justifying its decline of her application. Mrs W wants an 
explanation from NatWest and compensation as she had to make multiple applications 
which affected her credit score and then had to take out a more expensive loan than she had 
with NatWest
What happened
Mrs W had a mortgage with NatWest for £97,000. In November 2019 she applied for further 
borrowing of £39,000 with NatWest. In a phone meeting with her financial adviser, she was 
told that she was eligible despite her concerns about her husbands poor credit score. But 
later Mrs W got a call from the underwriting team at NatWest to say the application was 
declined. Mrs W says that she was told it was due to NatWests internal credit scoring 
system, but NatWest wouldnt provide further details although Mrs W was aware that she 
had an excellent credit score with the credit reference agency that NatWest used. The 
original NatWest financial adviser couldnt assist her although she suggested taking out a 
personal loan and re-applying after one year. So, Mrs W made a complaint. 
Our investigator noted that after contacting NatWest about the decline that Mrs W was told 
on two occasions to check her credit file for any errors although the credit file didnt disclose 
any adverse information. He felt that although NatWest had a valid reason for declining Mrs 
Ws application this wasnt made clear in the explanation she was given. So, although he felt 
that NatWest decision was valid, its explanation wasnt clear about the grounds of refusal 
and so, to recognise the frustration and inconvenience caused that he recommended that 
NatWest should pay Mrs W £100 compensation. Mrs W disagrees saying in summary that 
£100 is an insufficient reflection on NatWests failures. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has a number of complaints about NatWest. She believes she was initially led down 
the garden path by the financial adviser who thought that her credit was good and the 
application likely to succeed. Mrs W was then told to look to her credit file for reasons for the 
failure of the application despite the credit file scoring excellent. This was against the 
background of a very stressful time for her personally.
Ive seen Mrs Ws credit report from a credit reference agency which has an excellent score 
and states that Mrs W would be a strong candidate for credit. I expect it was against this 
background that the NatWest adviser gave Mrs W an indication that her application would 
likely be successful. That phone appointment seems to have been on 18 November 2019. 
NatWest appears to have processed the application fairly rapidly as there is a note of 
attempted contact with Mrs W on 21 November 2019 as the application had been declined 
due to a failed credit score. Although Mrs W seems to have been given an indication that her 
application would be successful - I note that she began to make her plans based on this - 
clearly the application had to be processed and if Mrs W was given false hope, this wasnt 
prolonged so that Mrs W had then time to explore other options.
The problem was that NatWests internal credit scoring on Mrs W meant that it didnt 
approve the application. That meant that her application was declined. From the evidence 
available it would seem that NatWest processed the application fairly but that its internal 
credit scoring produced a different result than the credit reference agency. We made some 
enquiries as to why that was, and NatWest has provided us with a reasonable explanation 
for why it produced a different result but has asked us to respect the confidentiality of its 
credit scoring system. The problem is that this isnt very enlightening for Mrs W in 
understanding why the difference in the credit scores. I understand that and appreciate that 
it will be a disappointment for her. But I have also to recognise that NatWest as a 
commercial entity is entitled to the confidentiality of how its credit scoring system is 
constructed and the weightings it gives to certain factors rather than others.
This unfortunately resulted in Mrs W being refused a further loan, but the evidence suggests 
that her application was dealt with fairly. The problem is the communication with Mrs W after 
the application failed. As I understand it the application information was processed by an 
underwriter and produced a credit score fail. The system doesnt tell the underwriter the 
reason - only that its failed - and the underwriter speaking to Mrs W told her to check her 
credit file as the most likely explanation was that something was recorded incorrectly on her 
credit file. That was apparently incorrect, but I can understand why the underwriter with the 
information he had would say that and try to be helpful. But it resulted in Mrs W looking at 
her credit file to see an error that wasnt there, rather than being told that Mrs Ws application 
didnt meet NatWests criteria.
Although Mrs Ws application for credit was refused, I cant say that this was unfair. Mrs W 
clearly has a good credit score with the credit reference agencies, but NatWest applied its 
own internal scoring system which it can fairly do, and this led to a decline. But I do accept 
that NatWest should have been clearer about the reasons for the decline which must have 
caused Mrs W a degree of upset and confusion. For that reason, I will be upholding the 
complaint. I appreciate that Mrs W endured an amount of stress at this time and Im sorry to 
learn of the personal trauma she was going through, But I would have expected that to be 
associated with the refusal of the credit which I dont consider unfair as opposed to the 
confusion about the rationale for that decision. So, I believe that the compensation of £100 
suggested by our investigator to be appropriate. 
 
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mrs W £100.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman