DRN-3537632
The complaint
Mr G complains AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined his claim for flood damage.
Any reference to Mr G or AXA includes any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr G moved into his property in August 2020.
Mr G first took out contents insurance through AXA on 25 July 2021 at 4:09pm 
through an online application.
Mr G says that he became aware of a flood shortly after, texting a relative at 4:26 to 
say his property was flooding, with water entering the property at 5:00pm. 
He sought to make a claim under his policy. But AXA declined this, saying on the 
balance of the possibilities it believed the incident occurred prior to the inception of 
the policy. It based this on various comments including block property agents and a 
head porter that said they were contacted by residents around 3:00pm, as well as a 
loss adjuster who said the discovery of water was reported at 4:00pm.
Mr G disagreed, disputing the comments made and saying his property wasnt 
flooded until after the policy was taken out. He provided evidence of his internet 
search history and phone activity which he said supported this.
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
in light of the comments from the three separate witnesses, on the balance of 
probabilities the flood had already occurred prior to the inception of the policy.
Mr G said the three statements were not first-hand witnesses and their input 
originated from a single individuals comments who had not arrived at the property 
until 4:30. 
The Investigator looked again, but didnt change their mind. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Gs policy covers him for certain insured perils that happen after the policy was 
taken out. But not any loss or damage arising from circumstances known to him prior 
to the start of the insurance.
The crux of this dispute is based around when the flood in question took place and 
what Mr G knew about it. With Mr G saying the damage happened less than an hour 
after the policy was taken out, and AXA saying the evidence suggested it happened 
prior to this so hed have known about it when taking the policy out.
So, Ive thought about the evidence and Mr Gs circumstances. 
On its face, I think it was reasonable for AXA to have concerns about the claim given 
Mr G didnt have contents insurance prior to the loss in question, and the alleged 
short timeframe (around quarter of an hour) between the policy being taken out and 
the loss itself. So, it strikes me as reasonable that AXA would seek out further 
evidence to establish what happened.
Mr G has provided a copy of his internet history as well as details of phone records. It 
appears to show Mr G took out the policy online around the time that both he and 
AXA have said. Hes also suggested this history shows he didnt have water entering 
his property until around 16:25 when he was searching for his insurance details and 
subsequently turned off his computer for risk of imminent flood.
I understand his position, but Im not persuaded this history shows more than simply 
when he took out the insurance and when he searched for his insurance details.
The head porter of the property said he was contacted by residents at 3pm and that 
all basement flats were flooded by 4pm. The loss adjuster representing the buildings 
insurer says discovery of water entering basement flats was at 4pm. And the block 
property agents say their records support the comments from the head porter.
AXA also sought input from the council and water authority who confirmed their 
respective agents never attended so they were unable to provide any data. I think it 
was reasonable for AXA to reach out to these parties given the circumstances.
Mr G says all three statements originate from the input of the head porter who gave 
an inaccurate account of the time he arrived. Even if I agreed with Mr Gs comments 
that the porter arrived later than this, which I dont based on what Ive been given, it 
wouldnt persuade me that the porter hadnt been alerted around 3pm of the loss 
from other residents. 
Ive taken into account the possibility this was pure coincidence, but I cant ignore the 
time between taking out the insurance and the flooding took place was less than 17 
minutes, alongside his lack of previous cover in place. And I think in these 
circumstances AXAs conclusion that Mr G wouldve been aware of the flood or 
imminent flooding prior to 4:09 is a reasonable conclusion.
Mr G has gone to lengths to explain why he believes the statements AXA has 
provided shouldnt be relied upon. I have to consider what is most likely on the 
balance of probabilities, and Im satisfied AXA has carried out a thorough 
investigation and fairly relied on statements and available evidence in reaching its 
conclusion. 
So, Im not going to direct AXA to do anything further and I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman