DRN-2940362
The complaint
Mr L complains Bamboo Limited irresponsibly lent to him on multiple occasions.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company. But for ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made directly by him.
What happened
Mr L was approved for the following loans by Bamboo:
Loan Number Date Capital Amount Term Monthly 
Repayments 
(approx..)
One April 2019 £4,000 12 months £412
Two August 2019 £4,355.12 12 months £433
Three November 2019 £2,000 18 months £171
Four February 2020 £2,000 12 months £226
Mr L says these loans were all irresponsibly lent to him. He says Bamboo did not complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks before it approved the loans.
I wrote to both parties to set out my provisional decision. I set my findings out as below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this 
complaint.
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr L. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Bamboo lent required it to carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Ls 
ability to afford the loans and repay them sustainably over their respective terms 
without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost 
of the credit, as well as the borrowers circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Bamboo to just complete proportionate checks  it must also
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending 
decision. This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring 
repayments can be made without the need to borrow further or experience significant 
adverse consequences.
Loan one
Loan one was taken out in April 2019 and was for a capital amount of £4,000. The 
term of the loan was 12 months with repayments of around £410. The record 
purpose of the loan was debt consolidation.
Our investigator felt that loan one had been responsibly lent to Mr L. This was 
because they felt Bamboo had completed reasonable and proportionate checks on 
him before making its decision to lend. Mr L didnt respond to this aspect of the 
investigators view directly; so, I dont know if they agree with this finding or not. 
However, for the sake of completeness Ill state that based on the current information 
Ive seen, Im also satisfied that loan one was lent responsibly.
I agree with our investigator that Bamboo completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks in this instance. This included searching Mr Ls credit file; and completing an 
income and expenditure assessment on him. These showed Mr L had a total debt of 
around £6,500. The report showed that he was managing his finances well; meeting 
repayments on time with no negative markers shown. Mr L had declared he lived with 
family making small contributions to the monthly costs. Bamboo calculated his overall 
outgoings (including both credit and non-credit commitments) of around £1,000. Mr 
Ls declared income of approximately £2,400 was shown to be in line by a third-party 
online tool. Im satisfied these checks were proportionate to the amount being 
borrowed and didnt suggest Bamboo needed to carry out further checks to establish 
Mr Ls affordability.
It follows that as the checks were proportionate and they showed Mr L could 
reasonably afford the necessary repayments; Im currently minded to say Bamboo 
made a reasonable decision to lend to Mr L.
Loan two
Loan two was taken in August 2019; and consolidated loan one. It was for a total of
£4,355.12; and after the consolidation of loan one, it left Mr L with around £1,500 in 
capital. The term remained at 12 months and the repayments increased marginally to 
£430 approximately. 
Having considered the information we have so far; Im minded to say that even 
though Bamboo did not complete proportionate checks on this loan; that further 
checks wouldve likely shown Mr L could afford the necessary repayments.
Bamboo completed the same checks on Mr L for this loan as it did for loan one.
Mr Ls credit report showed by this point Mr Ls overall level of indebtedness had 
increased (largely because of loan one). But it also saw he had taken out a number 
of other credit products in the four months between this loan and loan one. Bamboo 
was also aware loan one was taken out for debt consolidation only four months prior. 
So Im currently minded to say it shouldve done more to understand Mr Ls financial 
situation further. As such it follows that Im currently minded to say Bamboo didnt 
complete proportionate checks in this instance.Mr L has provided our service with copies of his bank statements from the period 
leading up to this loan being approved. I appreciate different searches mayve 
provided different information; but in the absence of further checks being carried out 
by Bamboo; I find this evidence persuasive in showing what further checks likely 
wouldve shown.
Having reviewed this information, Im not persuaded they demonstrate Mr L could not 
afford the repayments needed for this loan. The statements seem to confirm that Mr 
L has not large existing non-credit commitments and seem to be consistent with his 
application form that he contributes small amounts to living costs. The majority of Mr 
Ls spending seems to be non-essential  mainly on leisure activities.
Whilst Mr L does have some existing credit commitments, they are in line with those 
shown on his credit report. The statements suggest he is meeting these 
commitments in line with the expectations and is managing his finances such that he 
remains in a positive balance.
From what the statements demonstrate; had Bamboo seen these Im minded to say it
wouldve calculated the loan was more than likely affordable to Mr L. It follows as 
such, that Im satisfied that Bamboo wouldve therefore provided this loan reasonably 
to Mr L.
Loan three
Loan three was taken in November 2019, and was for a capital amount of £2,000. 
This loan did not consolidate loan two  Mr L had already settled this loan. Bamboo 
has provided evidence that Mr L settled this loan within the 14 day cooling off period 
of it being incepted. It has explained that he paid no additional interest of charges; 
and provided evidence to support this.
Based on this Im currently minded to say that Mr L has not suffered any financial 
loss in relation to this loan. And as such there is nothing that Bamboo needs to do to 
put things right for him.
Loan four
Loan four was taken in February 2020, and was again for a capital amount of £2,000. 
This loan was not refinancing a previous loan; and was less than those which 
Bamboo had lent for loan one or two.
Im currently minded to say that Bamboo completed proportionate checks in this 
instance.
Again it completed a credit file check; and took information for Mr L regarding income 
and expenses. The credit file showed that Mr Ls overall indebtedness had increased; 
but his limit for income to debt ratio had decreased. Again the credit file showed Mr L 
was managing his current credit commitments well with no negative markers.
Considering the relatively low level of capital being borrowed Im not persuaded 
Bamboo needed to do more at this point. And considering it did not show Mr L was 
struggling financially; Im satisfied it was entitled to rely on the information which was 
provided. This information demonstrated Mr L was likely able to afford the necessary 
repayments; and as such Im satisfied Bamboo made a reasonable decision to lend 
to him in this instance. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive also kept in mind that Bamboo provided Mr L with 
four loans. But Im mindful that loan four was taken less than a year after loan one and it was for a significantly lower amount. So it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr L 
might have been taking further loans because the effect previous loans were leaving 
on his finances. And given Mr Ls indebtedness, to Bamboo at least, was reducing, 
Im satisfied that Bamboo didnt lend in circumstances where it ought to realised it 
was increasing Mr Ls indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful.
Overall; Im currently minded to say that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint and Im 
satisfied that Bamboo does not need to do anything further.
I asked both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wished to 
provide. Bamboo responded accepting the decision and making no further comments. Mr L 
did not respond to the decision before the relevant deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr L did not respond to my provisional decision I have no new information to consider. So 
it follows that Im satisfied my provisional decision should remain the same.
That is to say Im satisfied that Bamboo does not need to do anything further in relation to 
this complaint. This is for the reasons outlined above. But in summary, Im satisfied:
Loan one had reasonable and proportionate checks completed. This demonstrated 
that Mr L could likely afford the repayments; and as such Bamboo acted reasonably 
in providing the loan;
Loan two did not have reasonable and proportionate checks completed on it. 
However Im satisfied that further information wouldve shown Mr L couldve likely 
afforded the loan and as such Bamboo wouldve continued to lend;
Mr L did not incur a financial loss for loan three;
Loan four had reasonable and proportionate checks completed on it. These showed 
that Mr L could likely afford the loan and as such Bamboo acted reasonably when 
providing the loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bamboo Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman