DRN-2833148
The complaint
Mr D complains a withdrawal from his ISA was delayed after Scottish Widows Unit Trust 
Managers Limited (Scottish Widows) told him his current account, held with another 
provider, was closed. Hes also unhappy with the service he received from Scottish Widows.
What happened
Mr D contacted Scottish Widows in July 2020 to make a withdrawal of £2,500 from his ISA. 
Scottish Widows attempted to verify the account details provided by Mr D before they 
transferred his funds, but the third party system they use to do this reported the account 
showed as being closed.
Scottish Widows told Mr D they could place his deal that day, but hed need to check if there 
was an issue with his bank before they could transfer his funds to the account details hed 
provided. Alternatively, they said if Mr D provided a copy of a recent bank statement, or if he 
provided a different account to receive the funds, they could proceed with the transfer. Or 
failing that they could issue him a cheque in the post.
Mr D checked with his bank who confirmed there wasnt an issue with his account, so he 
called Scottish Widows back. However, when identifying Mr D, he told them he needed to 
change his address. Scottish Widows updated Mr Ds address on their system, but the third-
party system used to verify his account details still reflected it as being closed. As Scottish 
Widows were still unable to complete a transfer to that account, they re-confirmed the 
alternative options available to him.
Scottish Widows said Mr D could provide a bank statement electronically, but he was 
uncomfortable doing this, so whilst unhappy about the length of time it would take, he opted 
for a cheque to be sent out to him.
Mr D was unhappy, so he raised a complaint. He said hed had to make multiple phone calls 
to Scottish Widows that day, itd been an inconvenience having to visit his bank and that 
being told his account had been closed had caused him distress.
In addition, due to his address having recently been updated, Scottish Widows said they 
required additional identification from Mr D in order to verify his new address, before they 
could send a cheque to him.
Scottish Widows investigated and agreed Mr D had experienced poor customer service and 
recognised theyd caused him undue upset and worry regarding his bank account and 
verification process. By way of an apology and to reimburse him for any costs hed incurred 
Scottish Widows paid Mr D £200.
But Scottish Widows also said theyd acted fairly when being unable to complete Mr Ds 
transfer straightaway as theyd been unable to verify the status of the account and felt theyd 
acted reasonably by giving him the option to provide a copy of his bank statement 
electronically. Scottish Widows also confirmed the timescales advised for the payment to be 
made by cheque were correct so didnt agree theyd done anything wrong regarding this.
Mr D said he felt Scottish Widows payment of £200 was unacceptable and he expected a 
cheque within five days to resolve the matter including an uplift in the compensation amount. 
In the meantime, Mr D also provided a photograph of a letter as verification of his address.
Scottish Widows responded to say they felt the compensation paid was enough and they 
wouldnt look to offer any more. They also confirmed they were unable to accept the address 
verification provided as the photograph blocked the content of the letter and its date so they 
couldnt confirm it was sent within the last six months.
Mr D remained dissatisfied so referred his complaint to our service. He also told Scottish 
Widows he thought the verification checks they required were excessive and that he no 
longer wished to proceed with the withdrawal of his funds. But his request went to a different 
department and following a further attempt by Scottish Widows to complete a verification 
check electronically, the third-party system successfully verified the address and a cheque 
for £2,500 was issued to him.
One of our investigators looked into things saying he thought Scottish Widows had acted 
reasonably when attempting to verify the account details Mr D had provided before 
transferring his funds. He said hed seen that the checks returned by the third-party company 
reported his account showing as closed so he didnt think Scottish Widows had done 
anything wrong.
Our investigator also didnt think, that by offering Mr D the option to send them his bank 
statement electronically, Scottish Widows had done anything wrong and that theyd acted 
fairly by taking steps to verify his new address when electronic checks failed.
Our investigator did acknowledge Mr D was given incorrect information by Scottish Widows 
about their processes and that the situation had caused distress, inconvenience and some 
additional costs, but he felt the compensation paid was fair and he didnt think Scottish 
Widows needed to do anything more.
Mr D disagreed as he didnt think £200 was sufficient. He was told by Scottish Widows his 
account was closed. He said whose fault it was that his account showed like this, was of no 
importance to him, itd caused him undue distress. He said his withdrawal cheque had been 
issued despite him telling Scottish Widows he no longer wanted it and felt our investigator 
shouldve listened to all calls between him and Scottish Widows in order to understand the 
extent of the emotional distress the matter had caused.
Our investigator said Scottish Widows had offered Mr D the opportunity to put the funds back 
into his ISA but hed said he didnt want to as hed lost faith in them. Regarding listening to 
the calls, our investigator said he didnt because he was satisfied the main cause of Mr Ds 
distress, his account showing as being closed, Scottish Widows werent at fault for.
Mr D said he thought Scottish Widows had failed in their due diligence to verify the output of 
the third-party system, whether maintained by them or not. As he remained unhappy the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mr D, Im not upholding his 
complaint and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Before transferring Mr Ds funds to a third-party bank, Scottish Widows ran a check on the 
account details to verify they were a match for him. I would expect a business to do this to 
protect both themselves and their customers funds.
I can see the report Scottish Widows received back from the third-party company used to run 
the checks, showed Mr Ds account as being closed. So, at this point I think it would be 
unreasonable to have expected them to continue with the transfer without further assurance 
the account was able to accept the funds.
Im aware Mr D feels Scottish Widows failed to verify the output of the third-parties system 
regardless of if they maintained it or not. Hes strongly of the opinion that where the fault lies 
is of no importance to him, it was Scottish Widows who told him his account was closed and 
its him thats been impacted. 
Id agree its Mr D thats been inconvenienced and I dont doubt it the matter caused him 
distress, I do think Scottish Widows couldve handled the matter more delicately and theyve 
recognised this. But I dont agree they were at fault for his account appearing as closed on 
the report.
Scottish Widows dont have access to other companies databases, so its important when 
carrying out their due diligence they use third-party companies such as credit reference 
agencies to run checks to verify address or account details such as in instances like this. I 
think its reasonable for them to rely on the data they receive and when they decide 
necessary, to request additional verification before proceeding.
I understand, by not being able to proceed immediately, this mustve been frustrating. But I 
can see Scottish Widows gave Mr D alternative options to allow the transfer to proceed, on 
multiple occasions throughout their conversations.
Mr D says he felt uncomfortable emailing a copy of his bank statement, hes entitled to feel 
this way and I can see he didnt do this. Scottish Widows also gave him the option to post 
the statement, provide an alternative account or receive the withdrawal in the form of a 
cheque, which he ultimately decided to do. So, Im satisfied they acted fairly and reasonably 
when providing a range of options which would have allowed Mr D to proceed.
I acknowledge Mr D endured further frustration when checks similar to those initially 
completed, proved unable to verify Mr Ds address in order for his withdrawal cheque to be 
sent out. Scottish Widows have explained verifying Mr Ds address was necessary due to it 
just having been updated. Again, Id expect them to take steps to verify a new address 
before sending something such as a large cheque out in the post, and I can see they 
requested the additional documentation on multiple occasions before the third-partys reports 
updated and they were able to complete the electronic verification they required to proceed. 
By this point Im aware Mr D had requested his withdrawal to be cancelled however his 
request wasnt noted before a cheque was issued to him. Because of this, Scottish Widows 
have said Mr D can return the funds to them and theyd put his account back into the 
position it wouldve been in had his request to cancel the withdrawal been actioned 
straightaway.  Scottish Widows have confirmed no funds were returned to them and Mr D 
has since cashed the cheque, but if he does still wish to return the money, he can do so by 
contacting them directly.
Scottish Widows did pay Mr D £200 to compensate him for the poor customer service he 
experienced, and any distress caused. It was also to compensate him for any inconvenience 
experienced or expenses incurred as a result of having had to travel to his bank and call 
Scottish Widows multiple times. Im satisfied this amount fairly reflects the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Mr D has said being told his account was closed caused him a great deal of emotional 
distress and listening to his calls between him and Scottish Widows would show the impact on him had not been minimal. I dont doubt the situation impacted Mr D, believing your 
current account had been closed mustve been alarming. 
But for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Scottish Widows werent responsible for his 
account being reported as such. And Im pleased Mr Ds bank were able to confirm there 
were no issues with his account within a matter of hours, which mustve gone some way to 
putting his mind at rest. So, I wont be asking Scottish Widows to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman