DRN-1757424
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that they was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Yorkshire Building Society (YBS), trading as Chelsea Building 
Society, when they took out a mortgage. They say they were not aware they had purchased 
a PPI policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out a mortgage in October 1998 and at the same time they purchased a 
PPI policy. The policy covered Mr O in the event that he wasnt working because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. And in the event of a successful claim, it wouldve paid a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months. The policy cost just over £20 each month.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs O 
disagree, so their complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mr and Mrs Os complaint. And having done so, Ive decided 
to reject Mr and Mrs Os complaint, and Ill explain why.
The mortgage and the PPI were taken out more than 20 years ago and the policy was 
cancelled many years ago when the mortgage was redeemed. So, unsurprisingly neither 
party has been able to provide much information about the sale. And in these situations, I 
have to look at what I think is more likely to have happened based on the paperwork Ive 
seen.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs O have given their honest recollections of the sale but I have to 
accept that after all this time memories can and do fade. And I just dont have any evidence 
whatsoever to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mr and Mrs O didnt have a 
choice in taking it out. Moreover, Ive had sight of the separate PPI application form that Mr 
and Mrs O signed in October 1998, and I can see in this particular case, choices were made 
about the level of cover; the amount of cover; and who to cover.
Ive considered the fact that Mr and Mrs O may not have completed the paperwork 
themselves  but I dont think this is particularly unusual. In many cases, the bank or building 
society representative would complete the papers based on the discussion with the 
customer. It would then be passed to the consumer to read, check and sign. And Ive noted 
that Mr and Mrs O did sign the PPI application form. So with the very limited information I 
have about the conversation that took place, I cant fairly say that Mr and Mrs O werent 
aware of the PPI or that they didnt have a choice about taking it.YBS didnt advise Mr and Mrs O to buy the policy  so I think its most likely that YBS didnt 
recommend the policy. This means YBS just had to make sure Mr and Mrs O had enough 
information about the PPI. And it was for Mr and Mrs O to decide whether or not they 
needed the policy once theyd taken in account any savings or employee sick pay.
I dont know what information YBS gave Mr and Mrs O or how it was presented, so its 
possible they didnt get everything they needed. But Ive looked at their circumstances at the 
time to establish whether any possible information failings mightve made a difference to 
their decision to take the PPI.
I think Mr and Mrs O wouldve been able to benefit from the full range of cover they paid for. 
Mr O wouldnt have been excluded from claiming under any of the main terms or exclusions 
 he was in permanent employment and he told us he was in good health.
Mr and Mrs O says they wouldve received a good level of sick pay from their employers if 
they werent working  but this policy wouldve paid out in addition to their sick pay and for 
longer too. So I think the policy offered a useful benefit to them. And this may have been 
important to them because their home wouldve been at risk if they couldnt keep up the 
repayments. And the policy wouldve allowed them to use any savings they may have had 
for other pressing matters; at what would likely have been a stressful time.
The cost of the policy was reasonable for the cover it provided and it was a regular premium 
one  so if they decided it was no longer affordable or that they no longer needed it  they 
couldve cancelled it without penalty at any point.
Weighing everything up, I think that, whether or not their full information needs about the 
policy were met during the sale, Mr and Mrs O are no worse off as a result. So theres 
nothing YBS needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman