DRN-2362918
The complaint
Ms R complains, on behalf of the estate of Mr B, that Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited (L&G) declined a claim on Mr Bs life assurance policy, cancelled the policy from the 
start and refunded the premiums.
For ease, in this decision I will refer to Ms R when talking about the estate of Mr B and/or its 
representatives. 
What happened
In January 2015 Mr B applied for a 20-year life assurance policy with L&G via a broker 
(company S). Mr B had a telephone conversation with company S and company S filled in 
an online application and sent it to L&G on his behalf. Mr Bs application was accepted and 
went live the same day.
Sadly, in December 2018 Mr B was given a terminal diagnosis and in April 2019 Mr B 
passed away. A claim was made on the policy.
To help its assessment of the claim, L&G requested information from Mr Bs GP. 
After reviewing the evidence received, it became aware that Mr B had hepatitis at the time 
hed applied for the policy. L&G said had it known the details of Mr Bs illness, it wouldnt 
have offered Mr B cover. L&G felt Mr B had misrepresented his circumstances by failing to 
share this information in the application form when he applied for the policy. And so, it 
declined the claim, avoided the policy (cancelled the policy from the start) and refunded the 
premiums.
The question L&G thought Mr B answered incorrectly at the point he confirmed his details is 
listed here, Mr Bs answers are in bold:
Health  Last 2 years
When answering the following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us about a medical 
condition, please tell us anyway. 
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 2 years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
Any condition affecting your gall bladder, liver pancreas, for example hepatitis, fatty 
liver? Yes
Please select from this list. Only select other when you cannot find a match.
Other
Name of the medical condition or illness
Liver Function Test (LFT)
Were these tests or investigations needed for, or because of, something that 
you have already told us about on the application?
No
Have all the tests and investigations been done?
Yes
Was this a routine blood test or part of a routine company or insurance 
medical or well person check?
Yes
Were you told you should attend follow up or that you should receive 
treatment because of any of the results?
No
Have you another condition or illness to tell us about under this heading?
No
L&G said Mr B should have disclosed his hepatitis here, including the fact hed had blood 
tests relating to this recently. It did not think these tests were routine. It noted Mr B had 
spoken with his GP the day before the application was completed about these test results 
and next steps in managing his hepatitis. 
Ms R didnt think the decline of the claim was fair, so she complained. But L&G didnt uphold 
this so Ms R brought her concerns to our service.
Ms R felt that any misrepresentation made by Mr B was innocent as hed disclosed his 
hepatitis to company S. Ms R said that Mr B had declared he had a condition under the 
relevant question and that because he didnt complete the application himself, he wasnt 
aware of the drop down list of options that were then available (hepatitis was a listed 
condition but was not selected).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought L&G had acted reasonably in the 
circumstances. Ms R didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry for Ms Rs loss and would like to pass on my condolences.
Im aware Ms R also has concerns over the actions of company S. However, these concerns 
are being dealt with separately and so I wont be commenting on them here. In this decision I 
will only consider the actions of L&G. 
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the industry 
guidance that was in place at the time L&G made its decision. This is called, 
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims 
For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products 
April 2013. I will refer to this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If the 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately, it sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application were clear and specific and 
whether an agent (ie. a broker or advisor) was acting for the consumer. The code also says 
consideration should also be given as to whether the customer had the opportunity to check 
their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately prominent.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Where the misrepresentation is 
considered deliberate (the consumer knew it was untrue or misleading) an insurer can avoid the policy and keep the premiums, providing the misrepresentation led to a different 
underwriting outcome. The code also notes that avoiding a policy should be confined to the 
most serious cases of misrepresentation.
Where a misrepresentation is careless, for an insurer to avoid the policy and return the 
premiums, CIDRA says the misrepresentation/s would have to have resulted in the 
application being declined. 
was there a misrepresentation?
L&G wasnt told about Mr Bs hepatitis. And it thinks it should have been. It thought this was 
a misrepresentation by Mr B. So, Ive thought about the circumstances surrounding Mr Bs 
application.
When Mr B applied for the policy, he used a broker. And I know Ms R has raised concerns 
about how these questions were relayed. So, I dont think it would be fair to simply look at 
the initial application when assessing whether Mr B took reasonable care here. 
After the application was submitted, L&G wrote to Mr B asking him to check his details. Mr B 
was provided with a personal details document which included the questions and answers 
submitted as part of his application. He was then asked to sign a form to confirm the 
information was correct or provide details of any amendments if not.
The form advised Mr B If the answers on your application are not correct, are incomplete, or 
are out of date it may mean that a claim will be declined and the policy or policies cancelled. 
It warned him to read the personal details document carefully. And Mr B ticked a box to 
confirm his details were correct.
The personal details document began with a section entitled IMPORTANT CUSTOMER 
INFORMATION and this told Mr B to read the information carefully and check the answers 
hed given. Further warnings were then given under the declaration section at the end of the 
document. For example, Mr B was advised, You must read CAREFULLY the answers YOU 
HAVE GIVEN TO THE QUESTIONS before accepting the following Declaration. It warned, 
Please also remember that if you do not answer the questions fully and accurately it 
may mean that a claim will be declined and the policy cancelled.
Given this, Im satisfied that at this point Mr B had direct access to his application, the 
questions asked and his answers. And I think he was given sufficient advice about the 
importance of checking his answers.
Next, Ive considered the questions Mr B was asked and the information provided. 
Mr Bs medical records also show that the day before he applied for the policy, he spoke with 
his GP about his hepatitis and recent blood tests hed had in relation to this. So, he had seen 
a doctor, nurse or other health professional in the last two years related to his hepatitis.
And the condition or illness hed seen medical professionals for was hepatitis not LFT  a 
LFT was simply one of the tests hed had. 
Mr B is no longer with us, and so Im not able to ask him why he didnt include this 
information in his application. 
I recognise Ms R has said Mr B had relied on advice given to him by company S, and that it 
told him he didnt need to declare his hepatitis. But Im not considering the actions of 
company S in this decision. And at the point Mr B was sent his application details by L&G, 
he was personally asked to review the questions and his answers for accuracy. The warning 
at the beginning of the question also said: if youre unsure whether to tell us about a medical condition, please tell us anyway. Taking all of this into account, I think its fair for L&G to say 
Mr B ought to have known hepatitis was relevant to this question as it was listed as an 
example illness. 
Ms R also told us Mr B couldnt see the list of options for conditions under this question and 
so he wouldnt have been aware hepatitis was on this list. Ultimately, Ms R feels any errors 
made by Mr B were innocent. 
Whilst the code refers to innocent misrepresentations, CIDRA doesnt and CIDRA is the 
relevant law here. Under CIDRA, inaccurate information can only be considered a 
misrepresentation if the consumer failed to take reasonable care. But I think Ms Rs point 
here is that she thinks Mr B did take reasonable care.
I agree that Mr B wasnt shown the list of options referred to in this question. So, I dont think 
L&G should expect him to have known hepatitis was one of the options available for 
selection. But the question immediately following this asked him to Name the medical 
condition or illness and the answer given was LFT, not hepatitis. And I think a reasonable 
consumer reading this question would understand that it was asking about the condition 
referred to in the previous question. I say this noting that these follow up questions were 
arranged on the page under the heading question concerning conditions affecting gall 
bladder, liver and pancreas. I also agree with L&G that a liver function test is not a condition 
or illness. But even if Mr B thought the liver function test ought to have been disclosed here 
too, I note he was later asked the question Have you another condition or illness to tell us 
about under this heading?. And Mr B again confirmed his answer was no. So, I do think 
that Mr B had the opportunity to disclose his hepatitis under one of these two questions. 
And I think its reasonable for L&G to say he ought to have done so. 
Taking all of this into account, I think L&Gs conclusion that Mr B failed to take reasonable 
care with his answers here is reasonable and I think this omission can be fairly categorised 
as a misrepresentation. 
was it fair for L&G to avoid the policy?
In its response to Ms Rs complaint, L&G has referred to this misrepresentation as being 
both deliberate and careless. So, its not clear to me which categorisation its ultimately 
applied here. 
I dont think L&G can reasonably conclude this was deliberate. L&G has accepted Mr B told 
his broker about his hepatitis. Taking into account the circumstances of Mr Bs application, in 
particular the involvement of an agent, and that Mr B hasnt been able to explain why he 
gave the answer he did, I think a fairer categorisation would be careless.
Where there has been a careless misrepresentation, L&G should look at what it would have 
done had it had all of the information available to it at that time. L&G has said it wouldnt 
have offered Mr B cover had it known about his condition. And I have seen underwriting 
evidence which supports this. So, I think L&G acted reasonably in avoiding the policy and 
refunding the premiums.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman