DRN-3346968
The complaint
Ms E is unhappy with Inter Partner Assistance SA because it automatically renewed her 
policy without her permission. 
What happened
Ms E had a travel insurance policy with IPA which she initially purchased in October 2019. 
The policy auto-renewed itself the following year and Ms E said this was done without her 
consent. She asked IPA to refund the premium it took, however, it declined to do that. Ms E 
would like her money back and the policy cancelled. Shed also like reassurance that this 
wont happen again. 
IPA said that Ms E, when she originally purchased the policy, agreed to the auto-renewal 
which is why this happened. It explained that Ms E was contacted before the policy was 
renewed and was given the option to cancel before this happened. IPA also said that it sent 
Ms E copies of the new policy documents, which also gave her a 14-day cooling off period in 
which to cancel. And that because it heard nothing from Ms E, the policy was renewed 
automatically. IPA said that it wont refund the premiums because its simply followed the 
original agreement.
Our investigator agreed that IPA hadnt done anything wrong. She explained that IPA had 
adhered to the policy terms and that the auto-renewal was made clear at the time of 
purchase. She was also persuaded that IPA gave Ms E ample opportunity to decline the 
auto-renewal by contacting in advance. She didnt think IPA needed to do anything more in 
respect of this complaint. 
Ms E disagreed. She said that there was no agreement for it to take money from her 
account. Ms E explained that she didnt need the policy as the world was in lockdown owing 
to the COVID-19 pandemic. Shed like IPA to refund her premiums. And so, its for me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator. Ms E agreed to a continuous payment authority 
when she initially took the policy out in October 2019. I accept that she may not have 
realised that was the case, however, thats not IPAs fault. I find the policy clear on this point 
and therefore theres nothing more for IPA to do in respect of Ms Es complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The policy terms say;
Automatic renewals on annual multi trip policies
By purchasing this policy you have provided us with the consent to set up a continuous
payment authority. This means we are authorised to automatically renew your policy and
apply for renewal payments from your account every year, even if your card has expired,
until you instruct us to stop.
We will contact you by email at least 21 days before the end of your period of insurance.
If you still meet our eligibility criteria, we will seek to automatically renew your policy by
using the latest details you provided to us. You will also be provided with a renewal
invitation which you should check to ensure all your details are still correct and relevant.
Your renewal invitation will have information on how you can make changes to your
details or tell us if you do not wish to renew your insurance before your renewal date. If
we are unable to renew your policy by using the latest details provided to us, we will
email you to confirm that your policy has not been renewed and no further cover will be
provided after the expiry of your policy
I think these terms are clear and were made clear to Ms E when she initially took the policy. 
This was a non-advised sale, meaning that it was Ms Es responsibility to ensure that the 
policy was suitable for her needs. By taking the policy, she agreed to IPA automatically 
renewing it once expired. IPAs terms explained how itd do this, including details about the 
continuous payment authority. Therefore, Im satisfied it was Ms Es responsibility to cancel 
the policy, should she no longer need it.
Ive also seen evidence that IPA contacted Ms E by email to explain that the renewal was 
happening on 11 September 2020  three weeks before the renewal was due to take place, 
giving her enough time to make contact and cancel the policy. Further, once the renewal had 
taken place she was contacted again, with the new policy documents, which provided Ms E 
with 14 days in which to cancel the policy should she not want to continue with the cover. 
Ive not seen any evidence of Ms E contacting IPA during that time to cancel the policy. 
Ms E referenced that shed experienced a similar problem with IPA previously and that she 
told it not to take money from her bank account following that. I should say that I understand 
the argument shes attempting to make here, but I dont find it persuasive because its 
related to an earlier time that she purchased an insurance policy from IPA and then 
cancelled it. Ms E since bought this policy that shes complaining about in October 2019 and 
so Im satisfied this argument is not connected to the policy at the heart of this complaint. 
IPA has acted in accordance with the policy terms and the agreement for a continuous 
payment authority for a policy that renews automatically. Its for these reasons that I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman