DRN-2712422
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd trading as Monzo (Monzo) didnt reimburse the 
money he lost after paying for an item he did not receive. 
What happened
Mr H says he saw an advertisement for an iPhone 11 Pro Max on a well-known online 
marketplace. The advert said that two phones were for sale because the poster of the 
adverts partners business wasnt going well. Mr H expressed an interest in one of the 
phones and was given the sellers mobile number to contact him directly. Mr H contacted the 
seller by text and found out the phone was being sold for £450. Mr H said hed buy one later 
that week and contacted the seller again at the end of the week and agreed to buy one of 
the phones. 
Mr H asked the seller if he could pay by PayPal and the seller responded that he only had 
business PayPal which he couldnt use for personal sales. Mr H and the seller then 
discussed whether Mr H could pick the phone up, but this wasnt realistic because of the 
distance involved so the seller suggested that Mr H transfer the funds. Mr H was reluctant to 
do so, saying hed been scammed before and wouldnt risk it. He said that if the seller set up 
a PayPal account or used someone elses hed be happy to buy the phone. The seller said 
he had no faith in PayPal other than for business use and suggested that if Mr H changed 
his mind, he should contact him again. 
Mr H then explored if he could pay through the online marketplace the phone was advertised 
on. The seller referred to an error message on the site and offered to send a copy of his 
driving license and a certificate of incorporation of his business. At this point Mr H used 
Monzos live chat to ask if hed be covered if he transferred funds and something went 
wrong. Mr H then confirmed to the seller he had seen the same error message on the 
marketplace site and asked if the seller had any other ideas instead of a bank transfer or if 
there was anywhere he could pick the phone up from. The seller said Mr H might be better to 
leave the sale. Mr H asked if the seller would set up a personal PayPal account and said he 
would pay the fee for this. The seller didnt wish to do so, saying he didnt want to wait for the 
funds and suggested Mr H keep looking for a phone. At this point Mr H asked the seller to 
send him his driving license and certificate of incorporation. 
Mr H says he checked the company named on the certificate of incorporation and found it 
was a legitimate business and the driving license was in the name of the seller. He then 
made the £450 payment to the seller around half an hour after his live chat query with 
Monzo and before he received a response. The following day Monzo confirmed that Mr H 
wouldnt have the same protection as he would if he used a card. 
When Mr H didnt receive the phone and the seller stopped responding to his texts, he 
realised hed been the victim of a scam and contacted Monzo on 27 April 2020 to report it. 
Monzo didnt agree to refund Mr H, as it felt that he hadnt taken steps to check who he was 
paying and what he was paying for. Our investigator reached the same conclusion and Mr H 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles set 
out in it. The Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Monzo says one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It says Mr H made the payment without having a reasonable 
basis for believing it was a genuine payment. Monzo says Mr H ought to have done more 
checks to make sure the payee was legitimate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Mr H under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect Mr H from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr H was tricked into making the payment. But this isnt enough 
for Mr H to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of 
care on Mr H too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 The customer has been grossly negligent 
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mr 
H and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transaction Mr H made are enough to support its position that he failed to 
meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment he made. I dont think 
he had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods or that the 
person he transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why. 
The advert Mr H responded to didnt mention whether the phone was new or used and this 
wasnt explored in Mr Hs texts to the seller. The seller confirmed the price was £450. When 
Mr H contacted Monzo before his payment he referred to a brand new iPhone. So for 
completeness, Ive looked at the price of new and second-hand models of the iPhone Mr H 
was buying, which was released in September 2019 and was the newest model available at 
the time. My research, a year on from Mr Hs transaction, shows that a new phone of the 
model he was buying costs over £1,300 and used/refurbished phones are being offered for 
sale from around £750. When the investigator looked in to the cost of the model of iPhone Mr H was buying she found one with a cracked screen for £550. Its likely that the phone Mr 
H sought to buy will have cost more in April 2020, soon after it was released. 
Im aware that online marketplaces are an increasingly common way for private sellers to 
sell items they no longer want, use or need. Its possible that a private seller looking to make 
a quick sale might be more open to negotiate on the price or to sell an item for less than it 
might typically be worth. So I accept that people can and do find good deals online. 
But price can be one indicator that there is potentially something untoward about the seller 
or the proposed deal. It seems unlikely to me that a genuine seller would be offering the 
model of phone Mr H sought to buy for £450, whether new or used  even taking into 
account the story the fraudsters partner provided about his business struggling. However, 
as Ive explained, I do accept its possible. But given the low advertised price I think Mr H 
ought fairly and reasonably to have made additional enquiries prior to transferring the 
money. 
It seems to me that Mr H did have some reservation about paying by bank transfer and so 
its likely he did have some concerns about the legitimacy of the sale  whether or not this is 
due to the lower than expected advertised price of the phone is unknown. 
Having reviewed Mr Hs bank statements for the period before the scam its clear he used 
PayPal on a regular basis, so its likely he was aware of the buyer protection this method of 
payment afforded, which is perhaps why PayPal was Mr Hs first suggestion. But the seller 
explained he only had PayPal for business and so couldnt use this method. Mr H then 
explored picking the phone up in person. The seller confirmed where he lived and said Mr H 
could pay in to his account and hed send the phone. Mr H responded by saying,
Dont be offended but Ive been scammed via bank transfer before so wouldnt risk it, if you 
set up a PayPal account or use someone elses Id be more than happy to buy it if you can 
post Monday.
The seller didnt agree to using PayPal and suggested that Mr H contact him if he changed 
his mind. Mr H replied,
Could I pay through [online marketplace] where I saw the phone advertised? Just so Im 
covered?
But it appears there were problems with making a payment using this site, as both the seller 
and Mr H referred to them in their text exchange. The seller offered to send Mr H a copy of 
his driving license and certificate of incorporation. 
Despite the seller offering to send Mr H a copy of his driving license and certificate of 
incorporation, Mr H then contacted Monzo to see if hed have protection if he made a bank 
transfer. So it seems that its more likely than not Mr H had some concerns about the 
legitimacy of the sale. Mr H wrote,
Hi. Im looking to transfer some money to someones [sic] for a brand new iPhone, would I 
be covered if something went wrong?
Mr H then asked the seller,
do you have any other ideas instead of bank transfer? Or anywhere else I could pick the 
phone up from?
The seller confirmed he didnt have other ideas and suggested Mr H might be better to leave 
it. Whilst Mr H says he hasnt been scammed before (despite telling the fraudster he had been) 
and there is no evidence that a previous scam was reported to Monzo, its clear Mr H tried 
very hard to avoid paying by bank transfer. Im persuaded he did so because he had 
concerns about whether the phone and the seller were legitimate and recognised there was 
a risk associated with paying for the phone by bank transfer. When the seller suggested that 
Mr H leave the sale, Mr H went on to ask if the seller could create a personal PayPal 
account and even offered to pay the fee. After Mr H had explored all payment methods but 
before he received a response from Monzo he chose to do a bank transfer
The seller didnt put any pressure on Mr H to make a quick payment and tried to walk away 
from the arrangement several times when Mr H explored different methods of payment. But I 
consider that Mr H wanted to buy the phone and in making the transfer took the risk that he 
wasnt protected if anything went wrong. 
The Code allows Monzo not to refund if it establishes Mr H didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing the transaction was genuine. I think it has done so in this case. For the reasons 
Ive explained, Im persuaded Mr H knew there was a risk associated with the purchase. It 
seems to me Mr H had genuine concerns he might not be dealing with a legitimate seller or 
that the payment was for genuine goods. Mr H preferred a number of other payment options 
in order to protect himself and while he made those suggestions to the seller, I think the 
sellers reluctance to take up any of those suggestions ought to have caused Mr H concern 
rather than provide him with any reassurance.  
In reaching this conclusion I have taken into account that Mr H saw the sellers driving 
licence showing his name and address and also a certificate of incorporation for his 
business, which he checked was registered with Companies House. But I dont consider that 
seeing these documents went far enough in all the circumstances of this complaint. Im also 
mindful Mr H made enquiries with Monzo after the fraudster had offered to send him these 
documents, so Im persuaded Mr H recognised that this documentation wasnt enough to 
prove the sale was legitimate. In addition, the evidence provided showed that the person 
selling the phones was a director of a company, and the fact the advert said the phones 
were being sold because of difficulties faced by a business, leads me to question why the 
seller wouldnt use his business PayPal account. Ive also considered the fact that the advert 
for the phone was placed by someone who had 20 five-star reviews and had sold five items. 
But the ratings didnt apply to the sellers partner who was selling the phone. 
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr H? 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a 
payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide Effective Warnings to their 
customers. The Code also says that the assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or 
not should involve consideration of whether compliance with that standard would have had a 
material effect on preventing the scam. 
In the particular circumstances of this case I dont think Monzo shouldve provided Mr H with 
an effective warning. Mr H was making a payment of £450 to a new payee. Making 
payments to a new payee can indicate that there is a greater risk of the payment being 
fraudulent than if the payment is made to an existing payee  but at the same time its 
important to recognise that most payments to new payees are legitimate and not a cause for 
concern. So Ive thought about whether there was anything else about the payment that 
ought to have alerted Monzo to a scam risk. Other than the fact the payment of £450 was 
being sent to a new payee it was unremarkable. For example, it wasnt significantly out of 
keeping with how Mr H tended to operate his account, the payment didnt clear the balance of his account, and there wasnt anything about the recipient account that I think Monzo 
ought to have been concerned about either. 
Im also mindful that when Mr H made these payments, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered whether the 
payment Mr H made was unusual or suspicious. But for the same reasons Ive set out 
above, the payment Mr H was making was unremarkable so I dont think it stood out enough 
for Monzo to have been concerned that Mr H might have been at risk of financial harm from 
fraud at the time he made it. Mr H had made legitimate payments for similar amounts before. 
Ive also considered Monzos actions once it was made aware of the scam. Mr H reported 
the scam on 27 April 2020 but Monzo didnt contact the receiving bank until 8 May 2020. I 
consider that Monzo should have done so before this, but that even if it had it wouldnt have 
made a difference. I say that because the receiving bank has confirmed that all funds were 
used up on 25 April 2020, before the scam was reported. 
Overall
I consider Mr H didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was making a payment for a 
genuine phone and/or the seller of the phone was legitimate. Im sorry to have to disappoint 
Mr H, but I cant fairly say Monzo should have done more or that it should refund the money 
that he has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman