DRN-3131969
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA did not notice unusual activity on 
her account. She would like a refund of the transactions.
What happened
Mrs A didnt recognise payments, totalling £4,853.92, made to an online gaming service 
from her PayPal account. The online gaming service refunded her £1,144.86 as these 
payments were still pending. Mrs A has disputed the remaining payments with PayPal.
Mrs A had given permission for her 7-year-old son to use her mobile device and this 
allowed him to download free games, but she says she never authorised him to spend 
money on in-app purchases. She discovered multiple transactions between 20 
November 2019 and 27 November 2019. Mrs A feels PayPal should have noticed that 
the pattern of transactions didnt match her usual spending.
PayPal refused to refund the transactions, as it says Mrs A entered into a billing 
agreement with the online gaming service and this was linked to her account. In addition, 
PayPal said its terms and conditions for billing agreements meant it isnt obliged to check 
the transactions.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Whilst she said the payments were authenticated 
and Mrs A had given apparent authority for her son to make the payments, she felt 
PayPal should have identified the transactions as unusual and stepped in to verify the 
payments with Mrs A.
PayPal disagreed. It said:
There is no evidence Mrs A exercised any degree of supervision or that she 
applied parental controls.
Mrs A had authorised a billing agreement and LIPP (log in with PayPal) and 
would have been aware no log in would be required to authorise a payment.
Regular payments to the online gaming provider started on 30 October 2019 
and Mrs A contacted PayPal on 29 November 2019; meaning she had allowed 
her son to use her device for four weeks.
Mrs A should have checked her sons activity and reviewed the email 
notifications it sent her. Therefore, Mrs A failed to exercise reasonable care in 
maintaining the security of her account.
It is not obliged to verify to confirm the amount the recipient presents to it 
for the purpose of processing payments made under the billing agreement.
All the payments would have appeared on Mrs As bank statements and she 
received email notifications for each payment instantly after purchase.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 September 2021, explaining why I was thinking of 
reaching the same outcome as the investigator, but I expanded on some of the reasoning.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, I 
have set this out below.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant 
law; guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Its not in dispute that the payments in this case were authenticated. Mrs A entered into a 
billing agreement with a third-party online gaming service and this was used to 
authenticate the payments. And whilst Mrs A may not have been aware of the 
transactions until she received her statement, I think she also consented to these 
payments. I say this because she gave authority for her son to use the device and she 
gave consent for payments to be taken by a third-party on that device without any 
spending controls.
But as the investigator said in her view, that isnt to say there wasnt more PayPal could 
have done. PayPal has a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, to follow good 
industry practice and take steps to keep the customers accounts safe.
As a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider PayPal should have taken 
proactive steps to look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or 
out of character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
This means that there are circumstances, where PayPal should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether PayPal acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mrs A, or whether it should have done more than it did. To help me decide what 
happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well as what both PayPal 
and Mrs A have told us.
The disputed transactions happen between 20 November 2019 and 27 November 2019. 
So, PayPal is incorrect in saying Mrs A allowed her son to use the device unchecked for 
four weeks; the activity created by her son actually took place over 7 days. Transactions 
prior to 20 November 2019 are not in dispute and represent Mrs As normal activity on the 
account. PayPal acknowledges the activity on the account included several days when 
the payment volume increased. I think it should have noticed this and intervened.
In the 12 months prior to the disputed transactions, a total of £682 was spent with the 
online gaming service; spread over around 100 transactions. The maximum transactions 
made in a single day was 3 and the highest value spent in a single transaction was 
£14.99. This contrasts significantly with the 78 transactions in one week when the total amount spent was £4,853.92 and transactions escalated to 23 in a single day. The largest 
value for a single transaction was £104.99.
I think PayPal should have noticed activity was taking place which wasnt in line with 
how Mrs A usually used her account. I think the transactions should have triggered 
PayPal to contact the customer to verify the transactions; in my view it has a duty to 
follow good industry practice and to protect customers from potential fraud.
I dont think PayPal ought to have picked up on this immediately  a pattern would need 
to emerge. But by the sixth transaction on 20 November 2019, I think PayPal should have 
taken steps to verify the activity with Mrs A. I say this because this is the third transaction 
for £99.99 within the space of five minutes and the second transaction for £99.99 within 
the same minute. As I mentioned above, the highest Mrs A had spent in one transaction 
in the previous 12 months was £14.99. So PayPal should have been alert to this unusual 
activity by the sixth transaction and should have taken steps to verify the activity with 
Mrs A.
If PayPal had taken steps to verify the activity with Mrs A it would have discovered she 
was unaware of the transactions and PayPal could have prevented the ones that 
followed.
I appreciated PayPal says it is not obliged to verify to confirm the amount the recipient 
presents to it for the purpose of processing payments made under the billing agreement, 
but I think that is a different matter to verifying the payments following unusual activity.
Ive thought about PayPals arguments about its email notifications and that the 
transactions appeared on Mrs As bank statements  this was quite a short period of time 
 7 days. Mrs A told us she checks her email once or twice a week, but she says she 
didnt receive any email notifications for these transactions. Mrs A says she used to get 
text notifications from PayPal but didnt get any of these for the transactions in question. 
The evidence from PayPal shows receipts for payments were delivered to Mrs As email 
address  so I think they would have been sent. It is possible these went to a junk folder 
and I understand Mrs A no longer has access to junk emails going back that far. Overall, 
and on balance, Im persuaded that if Mrs A had seen these emails, she would have 
raised the matter sooner.
Ive thought carefully about what PayPals responsibilities were, but another key issue is 
whether Mrs A acted reasonably and exercised reasonable care taking into account all 
the circumstances of the case. So, I have also considered whether Mrs A should bear 
some responsibility for the losses by way of contributory negligence.
Mrs A handed over a device to her son on which she had authorised a billing agreement. 
Mrs A told us this was the only device linked to app store purchases and whilst she says 
she had never bought anything herself from the app store, she had understood the device 
to require a password before a purchase could be made. However, it now transpires that 
her husband, who Mrs A says also used her device and made all of the previous in app 
purchases, had unknown to Mrs A, clicked a button to save the password. Overall, I have 
decided there was no contributory negligence on this occasion. Whilst there may have 
been some failings by Mrs A, I dont think they are significant enough to conclude she has 
been negligent in this case.
Overall, I am satisfied that PayPal should have identified the transactions as unusual and 
stepped in verify the payments with Mrs A. If it had, I am satisfied Mrs A would have 
raised the matter over the disputed transactions sooner and prevented any further 
disputed transactions occurring. 
Putting things right
PayPal should put things right for Mrs A as follows:
Refund the disputed transactions from (and including) the sixth transaction 
on 20 November 2019 to (and including) 27 November 2019.
less the transactions that have already been refunded by the online gaming 
service provider
add 8% simple interest to each refunded transaction from the date of the 
transaction until the date of settlement
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and I require PayPal 
Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to put things right for Mrs A as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman