DRN-3483647
The complaint
Mr G complains about the settlement hes been paid by Aviva Insurance Limited for a 
personal belongings claim he made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
In September 2021, Mr G was abroad when his briefcase containing a number of items was 
stolen. These items included: a laptop; headphones and a tablet. He made a claim for his 
stolen personal possessions on his travel insurance policy.
Aviva accepted and settled Mr Gs claim. But it didnt pay the full value of Mr Gs laptop, 
headphones and tablet, which fell within the policy definition of valuables. Thats because 
Aviva said the maximum benefit it would pay for all valuables was £400. So it paid Mr G 
£400 in total for his laptop, headphones and tablet.
Mr G was unhappy with the settlement hed been paid, and he asked us to look into his 
complaint. He felt the policy terms were ambiguous as to the cover they provided.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy clearly set 
out the applicable policy valuables limit and that Mr Gs items fell within Avivas definition of 
valuable items. So she concluded that Aviva had fairly settled Mr Gs claim in line with the 
policy terms.
Mr G disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He felt that the policy 
could be interpreted in two ways - £400 for any individual valuable, item, pair etc. or £400 in 
aggregate for valuables, with £400 for individual items. He thought the fact that Aviva had 
included the words individual item, pair or set in the wording meant that the policy would 
pay £400 for each individual item. He felt the policy had been drafted in an ambiguous way 
and that therefore, in line with legal doctrine, it should be interpreted in the manner most 
favourable to the party who hadnt drafted the contract. As such, he concluded that the policy 
terms should be interpreted in his favour. He considered that Aviva should redraft the 
contract to ensure it was clear. And he felt that Aviva should pay him £1500 in total for his 
overall claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
policy terms and the circumstances of Mr Gs claim, to decide whether Aviva treated him 
fairly.
The key issue for me to decide in this case is whether the policy terms  which form the 
contract between Mr G and Aviva  have been drafted in an ambiguous way. So Ive 
carefully considered the contract terms and how they applied to Mr Gs claim. 
Pages 17, 18 and 19 of Mr Gs policy set out a Table of Benefits. This table lists the main 
features and benefits of the policy, as well as the applicable policy limits. This includes a 
specific section called Your Belongings and says that the limit per person, per trip is £1500, 
with a limit of £400 for valuables, an individual item, a pair or set.
Next, Ive turned to the Your Belongings section of the policy. This includes the following 
term:
The most well pay for
 Your belongings is £1,500 per person; this includes £400 maximum for any valuables, 
individual item, pair or set.
Valuables is defined as: Valuables  means jewellery, costume jewellery, watches, items 
made of or containing precious metals or stones, binoculars, handheld games consoles and 
equipment, mobile phones, mp3 players, photographic or video equipment, e-readers, 
laptops, tablets and any accessories designed to be used with any of these including 
headphones.
It's common ground that Mr Gs claim included a laptop, a tablet and headphones. As such 
then, I think Aviva was reasonably entitled to rely on its valuables definition to conclude that 
these items were valuable items. Accordingly, I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to assess 
the claim for these items in line with the valuables limit.
Mr G feels strongly that the policy wording is unclear and ambiguous. So he feels that in line 
with contract doctrine, the terms should be interpreted in his favour. Ive thought carefully 
about this. But I dont agree that the term Ive set out above is unclear or ambiguous as to 
the valuables cover Aviva provides. The maximum limit of £1500 is separated from the rest 
of the clause by a semi-colon, which makes it clear that this is an overall personal 
belongings limit. This is followed by the words this includes  which makes clear that the 
items which follow are not independent of the overall limit, may comprise different items and 
will be taken together when calculating settlement. 
And key, in my view, is the fact that any valuables, individual items, pair or set are each 
clearly demarked as separate clauses by the comma in between each constituent 
word/phrase. I think its clear that these sub-clauses are meant to be read independently of 
one another and I dont think I could fairly interpret the term in such a way as to find that 
Aviva has provided cover of £400 for each individual valuable item, pair or set. I note too the 
use of the words any valuables. The use of the plural here doesnt suggest that Aviva 
intended to cover individual valuable items  rather it indicates than any valuables would be 
covered up to a maximum of £400 in total. On this basis then, Im satisfied that the term is 
drafted in a clear and unambiguous way. So I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could direct Aviva to calculate settlement based on a £400 limit per individual 
valuable item.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Gs position, as I appreciate hes been left out of pocket, 
I find that Aviva has fairly settled his claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman