DRN-4210272
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Zopa Bank Limited approved gambling transactions from her credit 
card. 
What happened
Mrs L opened a credit card with Zopa in 2021. Mrs L has explained that since that time she 
has used her credit card for gambling purposes in addition to regular spending. 
Earlier this year, Mrs L contacted Zopa and attempted to raise a claim to recover the 
gambling payments shed made from her credit card. But Zopa said Mrs Ls transactions 
didnt meet the requirements for chargeback claims and didnt offer to refund her payments. 
Mrs L raised a complaint and Zopa issued a final response on 22 March 2023. 
Zopas final response didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. An investigator at this service looked 
at Mrs Ls case. They thought Zopa had dealt with Mrs Ls case fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mrs L asked to appeal and said the gambling transactions had all been 
processed by merchants abroad. Mrs L added that shed had to borrow money as a result of 
gambling and that she was in a debt management plan. As Mrs L asked to appeal her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
In its final response, Zopa explained that Mrs Ls claims didnt meet the requirements for a 
successful chargeback recovery. I understand why Mrs L wants Zopa to consider a refund. 
But the chargeback process is run by the relevant card schemes, not Zopa. For a successful 
chargeback claim to be made, it would need to meet the scheme rules. In Mrs Ls live chat 
with Zopa, she confirmed the transactions were all approved by her. Whilst I understand 
Zopas decision may feel unfair to Mrs L, Im satisfied that its unlikely a chargeback claim 
made on the basis that the payments she authorised would be successful. I havent been 
persuaded that Zopa made a mistake or acted unfairly by declining to take the chargeback 
claims further. 
Mrs L has pointed to regulations that banned gambling companies from accepting credit card 
payments. But the rules apply to the gambling businesses. So, Ive focused on the controls 
Zopa had in place to check whether credit cards are being used for gambling purposes. 
I recently contacted Zopa and asked it to supply confirmation of the Merchant Category 
Codes used to approve payments Mrs L made to the businesses in question. A Merchant 
Category Code is the code a merchant uses when processing a credit card payment that 
classifies what its for. 
I can confirm that none of the payments Mrs L made were categorised as gambling by the 
businesses when claiming them. Various Merchant Category Codes were used including 
furniture/furnishings, video games arcades, marketplaces, travel agency operators and 
electronics stores. I appreciate the codes the merchants used may not have reflected the 
nature of the services provided as Mrs Ls told us she was gambling. But Im satisfied the 
information given to Zopa didnt include Merchant Category Codes that wouldve shown 
Mrs Ls credit card was being used for gambling. 
In response to the investigator, Mrs L said that whilst other Merchant Category Codes were 
used, Zopa shouldve been aware as she was paying oversees businesses. But theres 
nothing stopping Mrs L using her credit card to pay businesses outside the UK. And its the 
Merchant Category Code that shows Zopa what a business is requesting a credit card 
payment for. So, whist I understand Mrs L was paying oversees businesses, I havent been 
persuaded that was sufficient to show Zopa she was using her credit card for gambling. 
As Zopa wasnt aware that the payments Mrs L has raised were being debited for gambling 
purposes, Im unable to agree it acted unfairly or made a mistake when approving them. 
And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied Zopa fairly declined Mrs Ls chargeback 
claims. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L but as Im satisfied Zopa dealt with her complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman