DRN-4396018
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the service received from Marshmallow Insurance Limited when 
making a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. In summary Mr T made a claim under his motor insurance policy when the 
catalytic converter was stolen from his car. He complained about the very poor service he 
received, and Marshmallow accepted it fell short of its usual standards. It offered 
compensation. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt feel the compensation of £300 offered was 
sufficient, he recommended that compensation be £375. He felt that Mr T was also entitled 
to a loss of use payment for the time without his car in the sum of £450 with interest added.
Mr T accepted the investigators recommendation, but Marshmallow didnt. It made an 
alternative offer of for loss of use of £180, as well as increasing the overall compensation to 
£450 - £630 in total.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. Marshmallow accepts that it didnt handle this claim as well as it should have 
done and has offered to pay compensation to reflect this. Ive looked carefully at this 
together with the loss of use payment to see if Mr T has been treated fairly.
Mr Ts policy provides that an excess is payable in the event of a claim, so I dont find 
that Marshmallow was wrong when it said this was payable. Likewise as his car was 
written off, Marshmallow was entitled to retain the annual premium.
Marshmallow has accepted that the service it provided to Mr T was less than he 
could expect. I agree. The limited communication, delays and overall poor service 
arent challenged. I accept that this would have been time consuming, inconvenient 
and very stressful for Mr T and I agree compensation is due. I acknowledge that it 
impacted his mental health. I find the sum of £375 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Whilst Marshmallow has now increased its offer of compensation, it has done so 
because it doesnt agree with the loss of use settlement proposed by our investigator. 
I find that recommendation was fair  Ill explain why. 
Marshmallow accept that Mr T was offered a hire car on 13 December 2022. This 
was three weeks after he submitted his claim. But it says that this was outside its 
normal process as the policy term is that customers are eligible for a courtesy vehicle 
from the date their car is allocated to a garage. This was on 9 January 2023. So 
Marshmallow felt the loss of use payment was due from that date. However, because 
the request for a hire car, rather than a courtesy vehicle, wasnt actioned, it felt an 
overall compensation increase was more appropriate. I understand Marshmallows 
reasoning, but I dont agree it is fair in the circumstances.
I say this because Marshmallow deemed it reasonable to offer a car on 13 December 
2022 and I think that was fair. However, Mr T wasnt provided with a car. Ultimately 
the engineer assessed his car as being a total loss on 27 January 2023, 45 days 
later. Mr T had made it clear from the start of his claim that he would have been able 
to get the repair done himself, but because of the cost he decided to put the claim 
through his insurance. Thereby started the long drawn-out claim that the parties are 
familiar with. Im satisfied that being without a car caused Mr T difficulties getting into 
work, inconvenience and expense. So although Mr Ts car wasnt actually with the 
approved repairer until 9 January 2023, Im persuaded that 45 days loss of use it fair 
and reasonable. At £10 per day this is a total of £450. I dont find there was anything 
more that Mr T could have done to mitigate the inconvenience he suffered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Marshmallow Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr T £375 in compensation
Pay Mr T £450 for loss of use
Add interest add interest to the £450 at an annual rate of 8% simple from 27 January 
2023 until the date of settlement
If Marshmallow Insurance Limited consider theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr T how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr T a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman