DRN-2083354
The complaint
Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. The policy was added to 
Mr Ms credit card account when he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms told us he wasnt asked about an insurance policy when he applied for the credit 
card, and he says the PPI was added without his knowledge. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms 
signed application for the credit card. It includes a section clearly headed Optional 
Features. One of the optional features listed is Payment Protection Plan (PPI). Theres 
a box to tick if the applicant wished to take the cover. And theres a tick in the box to 
indicate that Mr M wished to take PPI. I think Lloyds made Mr M aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it  although I can understand why he may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
Lloyds no longer has a record of how the credit card and PPI were sold. Mr Ms told us 
he applied for the card at a meeting with Lloyds. Ive assumed thats right, and that 
Lloyds would have recommended the PPI to Mr M. This means it had a responsibility to 
check that the cover was right for him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based 
on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time.
Mr Ms told us he thinks hed have been entitled to statutory sick pay from his employer 
at the time. The PPI policy would have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition 
to any payments Mr M received from his employer. So he could have used to those to 
meet other day-to-day expenses. Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could 
have been useful to Mr M  particularly as it seems likely that his sick pay was limited, 
and hes told us that aside from any payments from his employer, he didnt have any 
savings or other means he could have used to make his monthly credit card repayments 
if hed been off sick or made redundant.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr M chose to take out the policy. So 
he appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten this 
now. Based on what Mr Ms told us about his circumstances at the time, he wasnt 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. The policy was competitively 
priced. And since Mr M was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time 
without further cost if he decided he no longer wanted it.
Taking everything into account, I think it unlikely Mr M would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have taken 
out the policy.
Ive taken account of all Mr Ms comments, including what hes said about having always 
been told that loan applications might be rejected without PPI, and that he might not get the 
credit card without the insurance. But theres nothing on the application form to suggest that 
the likelihood of any application being accepted would be improved if he took out PPI. And 
I cant fairly conclude that anyone at Lloyds told him it would, based purely on Mr Ms 
recollection of events so long ago. Ive also borne in mind that Mr Ms told us he wasnt 
asked about insurance, and the PPI was added to the account without his knowledge. 
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Lloyds said anything to give Mr M the 
impression that his chances of a successful application would be improved by taking PPI. So 
this doesnt change my conclusion. I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman