DRN-3798974
The complaint
Mr B and Miss K are unhappy Covea Insurance plc didnt renew their pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Miss K took out pet insurance in 2018 through a business which Covea is 
responsible for (all references to Covea include its agents). The policy covered their dog and 
was taken out online. During the application process Mr B called Covea to query the cover it 
was offering. 
Mr B and Miss K renewed the policy in subsequent years but in January 2022 Covea told 
them it wouldnt be offering renewal as it had decided to withdraw from the market. It advised 
them to seek cover elsewhere. Mr B and Miss K were unhappy as they believed theyd 
purchased lifetime cover for their dog which would continue for as long as they continued to 
pay the premiums. And, as their dog now had a pre-existing condition, this was unlikely to be 
covered by any alternative policy they now took out. Covea said it didnt have to offer a 
renewal and could cancel at any time with 14 days notice; in this case it had tried to give a 
minimum of two months notice to allow Mr B and Miss K time to find alternative cover.
Our investigator accepted Covea was entitled to stop offering cover. But she noted an
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) described the policy as a lifetime
product. She thought it was misleading to suggest the policy offered lifetime cover when 
that wasnt the case. And having listened to the call Mr B made to Covea during the sales 
process she was satisfied hed been told their dog would continue to be covered as long as 
Mr B and Miss K renewed their policy. She thought if theyd been correctly informed that 
ongoing cover was conditional on Covea offering renewal its likely theyd have sought cover 
with an alternative provider which did offer lifetime cover. And theyd then have ongoing 
cover for their dogs pre-existing condition. 
In order to put things right she thought Covea should pay Mr B and Miss K £10,000 to 
recognise the future cost of that treatment (and reimburse any costs theyd already paid from 
the date the policy finished until that payment was made). And she said Covea should pay 
£300 to recognise the distress and inconvenience it had caused them. 
Covea didnt agree. In summary it said:
This was an annual policy and didnt provide any guarantee of cover for longer than the 
period of insurance. That was common to other policies within the insurance sector 
described as lifetime cover and Mr B and Miss K wouldnt have been able to find an 
alternative policy that would have covered their dog for its lifetime. 
The annual nature of the policy was clearly set out in the documentation provided to 
Mr B and Miss K and there was nothing to suggest otherwise elsewhere in the sales 
journey. Ongoing cover was only provided if it offered (and a consumer accepted) 
renewal terms. During the phone call between Mr B and the adviser it was correctly 
explained this was a lifetime time policy and their dog would only continue to be covered 
if they renewed. 
It reiterated why the decision not to offer renewal had been taken. And, as it wasnt able 
to offer renewal terms, it couldnt be assumed Mr B and Miss K would have accepted any 
terms that were offered. Any renewal would likely have been at significantly increased 
cost due to the overall performance of these policies (which is what led to the decision to 
withdraw cover). And Mr B and Miss K had already expressed concern about the high 
cost of the policy premiums. 
It didnt agree any payment should be made to Mr B and Miss K. But it also disagreed 
with how that amount had been calculated. It said that was based on assumptions, 
including about possible treatment plans and how long their dog was likely to live. If 
those assumptions turned out to be incorrect they would financially gain from the 
payment which went against basic principles of insurance. 
It also said theyd only have been able to claim for treatment covered by their policy and 
so any payment should take into account exclusions and limitations that might apply. 
And it queried how an allowance for premiums that would have been paid had been 
calculated given the cost of this policy would have gone up significantly if renewal had 
been offered. It thought Mr B and Miss K should only be reimbursed for a loss theyd 
actually incurred. 
Mr B and Miss K didnt agree either. They thought the settlement figure should be 
significantly higher. They highlighted previous arguments theyd made in support of that 
position and provided some additional information. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any medical conditions a pet had or had
received treatment for when the policy was taken out or renewed. So ongoing or recurring
medical conditions wont be covered. But some pet insurance policies will continue to cover
any medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each
year.
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. And if an
insurer decides to stop offering cover we wouldnt generally say its fair existing consumers
should be left with no cover for a pre-existing condition their pet might have developed and
which would otherwise have been covered by the lifetime policy. Thats because the policy
will normally have been marketed to a consumer as a product which will continue to provide
cover for as long as a consumer continues to pay the premiums.
Covea says this policy didnt provide any guarantee of cover for longer than the period of 
insurance. Its also explained why it could no longer offer this product. And the policy 
document says: 
This is an annual policy which means that each policy year you can claim for the cost of 
treatments that are covered by this policy until the veterinary fee limit is reached. If we offer 
and you accept our renewal invitation, your veterinary fee limit will be reinstated and covered 
treatment payments can continue to be paid for a further period of insurance.
Covea hasnt provided details of information that Mr B and Miss K would have seen as part 
of the sale of this policy. But I know the information normally provided when these policies were sold included statements such as The policy is for a 12 month period  future periods 
of insurance cannot be guaranteed. 
Ive also looked at the IPID information our investigator referred to. However, its not clear to 
me this was information Mr B and Miss K saw as part of their initial sales journey. The IPID 
containing that wording is from after they took out their policy. And an earlier version which I 
think would have been in force at the point of sale doesnt contain that wording. Taken in 
isolation I think the written information Covea provided as part of the sales journey did 
explain ongoing cover was subject to a decision to offer renewal which wasnt guaranteed. 
But that wasnt the only information Mr B and Miss K had. During the sales process Mr B 
called Covea to query the nature of the cover it was offering. In that call the adviser 
confirmed this was a lifetime policy and so any condition their dog had would be covered in 
the following policy years. Mr B queried if that meant there would be cover as long as we 
maintain the insurance with yourselves. In response the adviser said as long as you renew 
then we can cover any conditions your pet had in the first year, yeah. And she went on to 
draw a distinction between lifetime cover like this and 12 month policies which she described 
as value policies. 
Covea believes the adviser correctly explained cover would only continue to be provided if 
Mr B and Miss K renewed. But what the adviser didnt say was that cover was subject to 
Covea offering renewal. A distinction was also drawn between this product and 12 month 
value policies. So Mr B and Miss K would reasonably have thought this was a lifetime 
policy which would continue to provide cover for as long as they paid the premiums. And 
theyd specifically rung to query the nature of cover they were taking out. I think they would 
have reasonably placed more weight on the assurances given during the call than on the 
written information about the policy. 
So I think there has been a failing by Covea here. I think it did make a commitment to Mr B 
and Miss K that cover would be provided as long as they continued to pay the premiums for 
the policy. It may have done that in error but if it hadnt done so Mr B and Miss K told us they 
would have looked elsewhere for cover that did provide that. And given they specifically 
called Covea to query this point I think thats likely. 
Covea says they wouldnt have been able to find such a policy but I dont agree. I appreciate 
all lifetime policies are annually renewable but other insurers do market them on the basis 
that cover will continue as long as a consumer renews. They use wording such as A lifetime 
policy will cover your pets injuries and illnesses for life, as long as you keep renewing the 
policy every year. I think, but for the failing by Covea, Mr B and Miss K would have such 
cover in place. That means Covea does need to take action to put things right. 
Our investigator recommended it should pay Mr B and Miss K £10,000 to recognise the 
ongoing costs they were likely to incur in treating their dogs pre-existing condition for the 
remainder of its lifetime. I can see thats based on a life expectancy of around 12 years 
which is in line with the average for this type of dog. And as the dog is currently five years 
old that would mean anticipated treatment for a further seven years. In trying to calculate the costs of that treatment I think its reasonable to take into account the 
costs paid under the policy to date which total around £5,700 over the last three years. 
Doing so means that calculation is based on what Mr B and Miss K would have been eligible 
to claim under the policy which, as Covea has pointed out, is subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. But I think its right to anticipate those costs would likely increase going forward 
(Mr B and Miss K have drawn attention to some recent increases in the sums they will need 
to pay).  
I also think its reasonable to take into account the increased premiums that would have 
been paid for this policy if it had remained in force. Covea says Mr B and Miss K might have 
decided not to renew given theyd already expressed concern about the high cost of 
premiums. But having concerns about the cost of the policy isnt the same as deciding 
against taking out the cover. 
However, I do agree with Covea that the cost would have likely significantly increased over 
time to reflect factors including the age of Mr B and Miss Ks dog and their claim history. And 
it is possible that it would ultimately have become unaffordable for them. I also recognise 
that Mr B and Miss K will be receiving compensation as a lump sum. Theyve said that will 
need to be accessible for treatment costs and I agree. But I think its nevertheless fair to 
assume some investment growth on this amount. 
Covea say any payment should only reflect a loss Mr B and Miss K actually incurred. 
However, our rules specifically allow us to award for financial loss (including consequential 
or prospective loss). And in this case, while I recognise there are challenges in calculating 
the prospective loss to Mr B and Miss K, that isnt a reason not to do it. However, I do think 
its reasonable to limit that to the pre-existing condition their dog currently has rather than 
any others it might develop in future (even if they are associated with this one). Its clear 
Mr B and Miss K will incur costs in relation to the existing condition; that isnt the case in 
relation to a condition their dog doesnt yet have. 
I dont agree providing compensation in this way goes against the principles of insurance. 
The issue in this case is what Covea needs to do to put right a failing on its part. Our normal 
approach is that a business should, as far as possible, put the consumer back in the position 
they would have been in but for that failing. Thats what the payment in this case seeks to 
do. 
I accept there are assumptions built into this calculation (for example around the expected 
lifespan of Mr B and Miss Ks dog and what further treatment might be necessary). But I 
think thats unavoidable in this situation. The alternative would be to require Covea to 
continue to cover the pre-existing condition which would tie the two parties into an ongoing 
relationship that neither of them wants. It would also mean Mr B and Miss K had to continue 
making claims, and Covea had to continue administering them, for potentially many years in 
respect of a policy that no longer existed and for which premiums would no longer be paid or 
calculated. I accept making a lump sum payment has its own challenges but I think its fairer 
to both sides to draw a line under things with such a payment.
I recognise its nevertheless difficult to come to an exact figure on what a prospective loss to 
Mr B and Miss K will be. But I have to reach a judgement on what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. Having taken into account the factors Ive outlined 
and having considered the evidence from both sides I think the proposed compensation of 
£10,000 is fair. Putting things right
Covea will need to pay Mr B and Miss K a lump sum of £10,000 to compensate them for 
the future costs theyre likely to incur for their dogs treatment. 
It will also need to cover costs theyve paid to date for their dogs pre-existing condition 
that would have been covered by the policy if it had continued from the date the policy 
ended until the date the lump sum compensation is paid (subject to Mr B and Miss K 
providing proof of having incurred these costs);
And it will need to pay interest on those costs at the rate of 8% simple from the date Mr B 
and Miss K paid them until they are reimbursed by Covea. 
I also think Mr B and Miss K have been caused avoidable distress and inconvenience by 
what got Covea got wrong here. So it will need to pay £300 to recognise the impact of that 
on them. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Covea Insurance plc will need to put things right by 
doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman