DRN-2730770
The complaint
Miss M complains about the service she received when Ageas Insurance Limited attended 
her car under her roadside assistance policy. 
A number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Ageas are 
responsible for it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
On 29 September 2020 Miss Ms car unfortunately broke down. She contacted Ageas 
around 10.30am and asked for help. Miss M was told Ageas would recover her by 12pm, but 
they didnt actually reach her until around 1.30pm  three hours after Miss M had originally 
called. Miss M wasnt happy Ageas didnt use a specific app to locate her.
I understand when Ageas technician arrived, he let Miss M know a winch would be needed 
to be used, and there was an additional charge of £180 for this. Miss M wasnt happy with 
this either as she said she wasnt told about it beforehand and couldnt afford it.
And, when Miss Ms car was recovered, there was some damage caused to the lining 
underneath the bumper which she also wasnt happy with. So, she complained about all of 
these issues.
Ageas said, in relation to the delay, Miss M wasnt on an official public road  she was on an 
off-road to the side of a field, so thought it understandable itd taken some time to find her. 
And the app Miss M had mentioned wasnt one available for commercial use, only for 
individual use, so they couldnt have used that to find her quicker. For the cost of the winch 
Ageas said its mentioned in the terms and conditions theyll charge for the winch in certain 
situations  which did apply to Miss M. So, they wouldnt be refunding the winch cost. In 
relation to the damage caused Ageas asked the technician about this. He said hed told 
Miss M this could happen because one of the wheels of her car had dropped into a tractor 
rut and there was no other way to recover the car. The technician added the damage would 
have been caused by the car being driven into a tractor rut. The technician said Miss M was 
happy to go to her local garage and get this issue fixed  but they werent sure whatd 
happened since.
Overall then, Ageas didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint, so she asked us to look into things. 
Miss M said when contacting us said Ageas hadnt answered Miss M sending them the 
relevant app information for them to locate her  and that they actually did use the app in the 
end to find her. For the road where she was located Miss M said its a commonly used road 
in the area, shed followed diversion signs and other cars onto the road and doesnt 
understand why a local company wasnt used. And in relation to the lining damage Miss M 
says it wasnt explained to her it was a possibility damage would be caused. She said the 
technician told her to go to a garage, didnt follow her to make sure her car was OK and felt 
he was quite bad tempered when he turned up. 
One of our investigators considered things. She thought itd taken too long for Ageas to 
locate Miss M but felt that was because Miss M wasnt on an official road. She didnt think 
Ageas had to use the app as Miss M had suggested. For the winch she felt it was explained 
in the policy terms when this needed to be used and didnt think this had been applied 
unfairly. Our investigator also felt Miss M had been told before the recovery this was 
possible. And for the damage she couldnt see that Ageas technician had any other choice 
given the location of her car  and couldnt see anything to suggest hed acted incorrectly 
which had caused the damage.
Miss M didnt accept this. She said she wasnt told about the cost until after the technician 
had left her in a village with no garage. She added shes not had a bill for this amount, only a 
phone call which could have been from a scammer. She also disputed the policy terms that 
Ageas had relied on and felt this needed to be explained. Miss M added that shed phoned 
before 10.30am, which takes the response time to over four hours  and the fact itd taken 
Ageas half an hour to even respond proves her point even more.
Our investigator asked Ageas about Miss Ms comment that she didnt know about the costs 
before the recovery and asked them to explain why they wouldnt have told her about this. 
Our investigator also passed on Miss Ms comments shed have done something differently if 
she knew how much it was going to cost. Ageas said they dont make any decisions on 
specialist equipment until they arrive on scene. They added given the photos provided we 
must be able to appreciate their difficulties in recovering Miss Ms car, and while they 
understand Miss M may have been short of money, they asked how she was going to 
recover her car if they left the scene.
Overall then, our investigator still felt Miss Ms case shouldnt be upheld, so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Length of time taken to recover Miss M
I do agree that from the initial call it taking three hours for Ageas to reach Miss M, or four 
hours in total from her first call to recovery, is too long. 
But I do need to consider the reasons why it took so long. Miss M has concerns that Ageas 
didnt use a local recovery company, and says they may have found her much quicker. I 
cant know that for certain and its Ageas choice in terms of who they asked to recover 
Miss M. So, I cant say theyve done anything wrong here.
Ageas have said the reason for the recovery is because Miss M was basically in a field that 
isnt a public road  and theyve said its clear Miss M was following a diversion, but 
seemingly didnt follow it correctly.
The depth of the ruts in the road dont appear to be ones usually made just by cars  and it 
seems unlikely to me that a diversion would intentionally be made onto a road such as the 
one Ive seen Miss M broke down on. Whether thats because Miss M made an error, as 
Ageas thinks, or because the company that put up the diversion signs did so incorrectly, I 
cant know. Miss M did say at one point when speaking to Ageas that shed send the bill on 
to the relevant company who put the diversion signs up  which does suggest to me she 
thought thatd been done incorrectly. Either way though, I think this also explains the issues 
Miss M had trying to direct the technician to her location. She didnt know for certain where 
she was when trying to help matters.I have noted her comments about the app which she says Ageas wouldnt use, and then 
eventually took the details of. While I accept its possible this could have sped things up, I 
think the key reason for the issues in finding Miss M were due to the road she seems to have 
ended up on in error. Because of that, I wont be requiring Ageas to do anything further on 
this point.
Being charged for using the winch
I think itll help to explain firstly whether I think its appropriate for the cost of the winch to be 
charged or not  and then clarify how much that charge is.
Miss M thinks the cost of a winch should be included in the overall cost of buying the policy. 
Ageas say its in the policy terms that they may charge extra for specialist equipment such 
as a winch. And the specific policy term theyve relied on says, under whats not covered in 
the policy:
The use of specialist equipment occasionally required because the vehicle is not between 
the kerbs, it has modifications, or nearby obstructions are impeding the usual method of 
recovery
This kind of clause isnt that unusual in these kinds of policies and I think Miss M would find 
it in most roadside assistance policies  so I dont think Ageas have acted incorrectly by 
saying to Miss M it would be a charge theyd apply.
I also dont think Ageas are acting unfairly in looking to apply it either in Miss Ms recovery. 
The photos Ive been provided with show Miss Ms car wasnt between the kerbs which I 
think is the most relevant part of the term Ageas have relied on. It seems likely to me Ageas 
have included this to cover the potential costs of what they might deem non-standard 
recoveries. In this case, Miss Ms car wasnt on a road and the wheel had fallen into a deep 
rut. The technician who attended Miss Ms car said he had no choice but to try and winch it 
first, otherwise he couldnt recover it. Having seen the photos, this doesnt seem an 
unreasonable approach to me.
Miss M is also unhappy she wasnt told about the cost of the winch until after shed been 
recovered. That does seem to have been the case  listening to the call where she was told 
about the cost, she says she doesnt believe today happened. And then she effectively 
seems to end the call. I can understand her frustration, but as Ive explained above the cost 
of the winch isnt included in the policy. And Ageas have said they couldnt tell her about this 
before they reached her. This seems reasonable to me, as theyre unlikely to know if 
specialist equipment such as a winch is going to be required until their technician has 
assessed the situation  which cant always be done until theyre at the scene.
Different figures have also been quoted for the cost it seems. Miss M understood the cost to 
be £180, but the notes Ageas provided to us said the cost showed itd only be £150. Ageas 
have explained the reason for the discrepancy is first of all that the £180 was an estimate  
and later on that the recovery agent had charged Ageas an additional £30 which they didnt 
think they should pass on to Miss M. So, Im satisfied the correct amount for Miss M to pay is 
£150.
Ive noted Miss Ms comments that the policy terms need to be explained, specifically the 
element of between the kerbs as that discriminates against villages for example. But Im 
only looking into her specific complaint to see whether Ageas have acted fairly or not. And, 
for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied on this element of her complaint they 
have.Damage caused to her car
I can understand why Miss M would be frustrated with her car being damaged  especially if 
she wasnt told that might be a possibility. Ageas technician says he did tell her it was a 
possibility  but has also said the only way to recover her car was to approach the recovery 
in the way he did.
I wasnt present at the time, so I cant know for certain what was said. But I have thought 
about the comments from Ageas technician to decide whether what theyve said seems 
reasonable about the way they recovered Miss Ms car.
Theyve said there was damage to the same area of Miss Ms car already due to it dropping 
into the rut. They added that the bottom of the car was on the floor, so they couldnt do 
anything other than use the winch to release it. And because of the position of the recovery, 
while he was winching the car out, he couldnt watch it as it was coming out of the rut.
I think the photos show that the car was in a rut deep enough to require a winch to have to 
be used. With that in mind, Im persuaded that the technician couldnt have done anything 
different to recover Miss Ms car.
That doesnt mean the technician can do whatever they like and not be held accountable  
but Ive not seen anything to suggest theyve acted incorrectly or without due care for 
Miss Ms car. Because of that, I wont be requiring Ageas to repay Miss M any costs shes 
incurred for repairing the damage to her car.
Summary
I have seen what Miss Ms said about her health conditions, and that the purpose of her trip 
that day was to take an animal shed rescued to a sanctuary. I am genuinely sorry to hear of 
the difficulties Miss M had on this day  but I can only require Ageas to take further action if I 
think they did something wrong. I do think Miss M ended up in an extremely unfortunate 
situation, but from the evidence I have I cant see Ageas caused or compounded that 
situation. 
This means Ageas will most likely require payment of the £150. As Miss M has said she 
cant afford it, Id expect Ageas to treat her appropriately when asking for the payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman