DRN-3319927
The complaint
Miss K complains that Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo Loans) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss K has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company 
(CMC). But, for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having 
been with, and from, Miss K herself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Miss K was given a loan by Bamboo in October 2019. She borrowed £3,500 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 36 monthly instalments. A balance remained outstanding 
on the loan when Miss K made her complaint.
Bamboo gathered some information from Miss K before it agreed the loan. It asked 
her for details of her income, and her normal housing costs. It then used some 
industry statistical data to estimate the remainder of Miss Ks expenditure. And it 
checked her credit file to see how much she was paying to other lenders, and how 
shed managed credit in the past.
Miss K was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. She would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was right that 
Bamboo wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Miss Ks financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the 
checks Ive described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that 
Bamboos checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. Or, in some cases, the 
results might lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. And that is what I think should have happened in this case.
Miss Ks credit file showed that she had faced some serious problems managing her 
money in the past. It showed that she had defaulted on at least three accounts. And 
she had two active County Court Judgements showing against her  the latest of 
which was issued just a year before. Overall Miss K had more than £1,500 owing on 
delinquent accounts.
 
I accept that, in more recent times, Miss K appeared to have managed her credit 
much better. But experience often shows that consumers who have faced problems 
managing their money in the past, are more likely to face similar problems in the 
future. So I think it would have been appropriate here for Bamboo to delve a little 
deeper into Miss Ks finances. For example it had used some industry statistical data 
to estimate her expenditure  I think it would have been more appropriate to consider 
Miss Ks actual living costs and thus her true disposable income before making a 
lending decision.
But although I think Bamboo should have gathered some additional information 
before agreeing the loan, that in itself doesnt mean that Miss Ks complaint should 
succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that the additional information would have 
shown Bamboo that Miss K couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So we asked 
Miss Ks for copies of her bank statements, so we could see what better checks 
would have shown Bamboo.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check 
that Bamboo should have carried out. I do think Bamboo needed further evidence to 
support what Miss K said was happening with her finances. And looking at her bank 
statements is one way of achieving that although there are of course many other 
ways that level of detail could be established. But I think that by looking at Miss Ks 
bank statements I would be able to get a good idea of what better checks might have 
shown.
Despite our request Miss K hasnt provided us with copies of her bank statements for 
the period before the loan was agreed. So, I havent been able to get a picture of 
what her financial circumstances were like at the relevant time. That means I cant 
say that, if Bamboo had completed further checks, it wouldve found that Miss K 
couldnt afford to repay the loan.
So based on the information I have seen so far, Im not able to conclude that 
Bamboo shouldnt have agreed to give the loan to Miss K. If Miss K is able to provide 
us with the relevant copies of her bank statements I will of course reconsider my 
decision. But I dont currently think her complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Bamboo and the CMC, on behalf of Miss K, have said that they 
have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So based on the 
available evidence Im not able to conclude that Bamboo shouldnt have given the loan to 
Miss K. I dont think her complaint should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman