DRN-3614136
The complaint
Ms J complains through her representative that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from Everyday Lending, here is a brief table with some details of the 
approved loan.
Loan Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal repayable Date repaid
1 05/08/2019 £3,500 36 
months£170.21 £6,127.56 Live
Our adjudicator issued a short view indicating that she felt that Everyday Lending had 
carried out proportionate checks but thought that the total amount Ms J was going to have to 
pay in the future (including this new loan) for all her credit commitments was too much each 
month. She thought that Everyday Lending had not made a fair lending decision.
Ms J agreed and Everyday Lending did not. The unresolved complaint was passed to me, 
and I issued a provisional decision giving reasons as to why I considered that the complaint 
ought not to be upheld. 
I gave time for both parties to respond and both have acknowledged the provisional decision 
but have sent nothing further to me, either by way of submissions or evidence. And so its 
right that I issue my final decision now. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are: 
Did Everyday Lending, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Ms J would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms J would have been able to do so?   
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Js ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This  assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the  loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms J undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms J. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that ought generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Js complaint. I am planning not to uphold Ms Js complaint, 
and my reasons are given here.
Everyday Lending did do all I would have expected it to do. It obtained a copy of Ms Js 
June 2019 and July 2019 payslips and used the lower net amount of £1,717 as her monthly 
income when carrying out its affordability assessment.
Everyday Lending had spoken to her, it had reviewed her copy bank statements transactions 
and I have been given a copy of those. There was nothing in there which did not appear on 
her credit report. Everyday Lending had reviewed a copy of that set of credit search results 
obtained when Ms J applied to it.
Plus, I have used a more recent personal credit report sent to us from Ms J, dated 
April 2022. That was useful as it showed me that Ms J did exactly what she had told
Everyday Lending she was going to do. 
And that was to obtain the Everyday Lending loan of £3,500 repayable at £170 a month for 
three years and use it to repay a relatively new loan with another lender which was a larger 
loan and for a shorter period with repayments of £399 a month. She was going to ask her 
father to help her pay that off. Her recent credit file shows me that Ms J did do that as the 
other account costing Ms J £399 was closed and settled on 13 August 2019, a few days 
after she took this Everyday Lending loan.So, as Ms Js credit repayments had reduced by taking this Everyday Lending loan, I cant 
see that this could be considered irresponsible, especially when I can see that Everyday 
Lending did all I would have expected it to do before lending to Ms J.
To me it looks to have been Ms Js choice to accept the loan terms and she had a plan as to 
what she was going to do with the Everyday Lending capital. If that suited her then I cant 
see how I can conclude that was Everyday Lendings irresponsible actions.
I planned not to uphold Ms Js complaint and in my provisional decision set out all the same 
findings I have made above. And in the absence of anything further from either party then 
this is my decision  I do not uphold Ms Js complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman