DRN-4413981
The complaint
Mr C complains Skrill Limited (Skrill) blocked his account and then closed it without 
explanation or notice. 
Mr C says this has caused him financial loss, inconvenience and he would like the account 
re-opened. 
What happened
On 5 September 2022, following an internal review, Skrill restricted Mr Cs access to his 
account  which meant he didnt have access to his funds of around £47,000. On 
20 October 2022, Skrill decided to close Mr Cs account with immediate effect and released 
his funds to him. 
Unhappy with Skrills actions, Mr C complained. Skrill did not uphold Mr Cs complaint, and 
in summary said: 
- The actions Skrill took were in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
- It cant give Mr C a more detailed explanation 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. 
Mr C says he used his Skrill account for facilitating investments, something hes been doing 
since he opened it in 2010. And it being closed in this way has meant hes lost out on 
investment opportunities in the region of £1,000. He also says that it will take many weeks 
for him to open a similar account with another provider. 
Mr C feels he hasnt done anything wrong, and that hes prepared to stop using his credit 
card that has a reward scheme for when its being used. But he wants the account 
re-opened. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. They recommended the complaint is 
upheld in part. In short, they found: 
- The account review was carried out in line with Skrills legal and regulatory 
obligations, the terms of the account, and done so fairly 
- Skrill didnt do anything wrong by closing the account without explanation, but it 
should have given Mr C two months notice as per 16.1 of its terms and conditions 
- Mr C has explained how being without the use of his account impacted his ability to 
carry out investments. And opening another account which allowed him to do so took 
weeks to arrange. If Mr C was given the correct notice, he wouldve been able to 
transition to another account without disruption
- Mr C hasnt been able to show he suffered financial loss, so no other compensation 
is being awarded. But Skrills immediate closure would have caused him distress and 
inconvenience  so Skrill should pay Mr C £150 compensation 
Skrill did not agree with what our Investigator said. It maintained that the immediate account 
closure was done in line with its terms and conditions of account. Mr C says his account 
manager at Skrill said he could continue using his credit card, so he finds it outrageous Skrill 
can close his account based on something he was told he was okay to do. Mr C wants the 
account re-opened. 
As there is no agreement, this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses in the UK, like Skrill, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Ive carefully considered Skrills reasons for reviewing and restricting Mr Cs account. Having 
done so, Im satisfied it acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. Im also 
persuaded that it didnt cause any undue delay in doing so.
Skrill is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Skrill closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Skrill and Mr C had to comply with, say that 
it could close the account by giving him at least two months prior notice  section 16.1. And 
in certain circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Id like to assure both parties that Ive carefully reviewed the terms of account, Skrills 
reasons for closing the account immediately, and the information given me. Having done so, 
Im not persuaded Skrill did enough to warrant closing Mr Cs account down in the way it 
has. Based on the evidence Ive seen I think it should have given Mr C two months notice of 
closure. 
Mr C says hes lost out on investment opportunities. But such investments arent guaranteed 
to yield a profit. Nor has Mr C suffered an actual or material loss. Im persuade that Mr C 
was most likely using the account in the way he says he was to facilitate investments. And 
hes shown that he faced obstacles in attempting to open another investment facilitating 
account. 
So Im persuaded having his account closed in the way it was, caused him some distress, 
but mainly inconvenience. This would likely have been avoided if he had been given two 
months notice. So because of that Im satisfied £150 is fair compensation.  
Ive already said that Skrill didnt do anything wrong by closing Mr Cs account  only the 
notice which it gave. So I dont think its required to re-open the account. 
I know Mr C would like an explanation for why Skrill restricted and closed his account. And I 
note he thinks its to do with the use of a reward giving credit card he used to upload funds. But Skrill are under no obligation, that Im aware of, to give him an explanation. 
Id also add that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence 
from regulated financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the 
information Skrill has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Skrill Limited must now pay Mr C 
£150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman