DRN-4021807
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down an unemployment claim 
she made on a flexible policy, which could be used to provide income protection or payment 
protection insurance.
All references to Great Lakes include the actions of its agents.
What happened
In April 2022, Mrs M entered into a settlement agreement with her employer and her 
employment ended on 8 April 2022. She made an unemployment claim on her policy.
Great Lakes turned down Mrs Ms claim. It said the policy didnt cover claims if a 
policyholder had become unemployed voluntarily. It asked for more information from Mrs Ms 
employer about the circumstances in which Mrs Ms employment had ended. Ultimately, as 
Mrs M had entered into a settlement agreement with her employer to end her employment, it 
concluded she wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mrs M was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and she complained.
Great Lakes accepted thered been unreasonable delays in the way it had handled Mrs Ms 
claim and so it offered to pay her £100 compensation. But it maintained its decision not to 
pay her claim. So Mrs M asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He felt the evidence 
indicated that Mrs M had entered into a voluntary agreement with her employer to end her 
employment. So he considered it had been fair for Great Lakes to conclude that the claim 
was excluded by the policy terms.
Mrs M disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to the investigator. She said that the 
policy terms dont exclude settlement agreements. And she felt the policy terms indicated 
that settlement agreements were covered. She said shed told her broker and Great Lakes 
from the start that shed entered into a settlement agreement. She didnt think the 
compensation Great Lakes had offered was fair either, given the monthly premium shed had 
to continue paying while Great Lakes looked into her claim. She said her broker had 
indicated at the start that her claim would be paid, once her pay in lieu of notice had ended. 
She felt that Great Lakes was choosing not to honour her cover.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs M, I think it was fair for Great Lakes 
to turn down her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mrs Ms policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think Great 
Lakes treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mrs M and Great Lakes. The policy says that Great Lakes will pay benefit if a 
policyholder becomes unemployed. However, it also sets out circumstances in which Great 
Lakes wont pay benefit. One of these is:
You have agreed to take voluntary unemployment, resign, or permanently retire.
Great Lakes considers that as Mrs M entered into a settlement agreement with her 
employer, she agreed to take voluntary unemployment. Therefore, it concluded that her 
claim was specifically excluded from cover. Ive carefully considered whether I think this was 
a fair conclusion for Great Lakes to reach.
Ive looked at the terms of the settlement agreement between Mrs M and her employer. 
Briefly, this indicates that the parties had agreed that Mrs Ms employment would end under 
the terms of the agreement. The document indicates too that Mrs M received legal advice 
before signing the agreement and accepting the terms of it. On the face of things then, Mrs 
M voluntarily agreed to leave her job, in line with the terms of the settlement agreement.
I accept that Great Lakes hasnt excluded settlement agreements entirely from the cover it 
provides. But that doesnt mean that it must pay all unemployment claims where a 
settlement agreement has been entered into. Its also reasonably entitled to consider the 
relevant terms and any exclusions to decide whether a claim is covered. In this case, it 
asked for more information from Mrs Ms employer about the circumstances in which her 
employment ended, which I think was a fair and appropriate action for it to take. The 
evidence the employer provided showed that Mrs Ms employment didnt end as a result of 
redundancy. 
In my view, it was reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the evidence both parties provided 
to decide that Mrs M and her employer entered into a mutual agreement to end her 
employment. As such then, I find it was fair for Great Lakes to conclude that Mrs Ms claim 
was specifically excluded by the policy terms and to therefore turn it down.
Its clear that when Mrs M first made a claim and explained that her employment had ended 
due to entering in a settlement agreement, she was told that a claim could be considered. I 
dont doubt that it was frustrating for her when she learned that Great Lakes wouldnt cover 
her claim. However, it appears that she was given this information by her broker in an email 
of 3 May 2022. Great Lakes isnt responsible for any information Mrs Ms broker may have 
provided. But even if it was, I can see that the settlement agreement was signed around four 
weeks before Mrs M was told a claim might be considered. And I think Great Lakes needed 
to assess the relevant paperwork to decide whether or not the claim would be covered. So 
while I accept Mrs Ms expectations may have been raised by what shed been told, I cant 
reasonably direct Great Lakes to pay Mrs Ms claim on the basis of any misinformation she 
might have been given.
Great Lakes accepted that there were some delays in its assessment of Mrs Ms claim, over 
a period of around three months. So it offered Mrs M £100 compensation to reflect its poor 
service. In my view, this was a fair award from Great Lakes to reflect the likely additional 
upset and inconvenience these delays caused Mrs M, on top of the day-to-day 
inconvenience of making a claim. I appreciate Mrs M doesnt feel the compensation was 
sufficient, given she continued to pay her monthly premiums while Great Lakes was assessing her claim. However, the premiums did remain payable, under the policy terms. 
And the compensation is designed to reflect delays in Great Lakes claims handling  it isnt 
intended to provide an effective refund of her premiums. So Im not directing Great Lakes to 
pay anything more. 
In its final response to Mrs Ms complaint, Great Lakes indicated that the compensation 
payment had been sent under separate cover. If Mrs M didnt receive this payment, or any 
cheque has now expired, its open to her to contact Great Lakes to request that the payment 
be reissued.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs Ms position, I dont think that Great Lakes 
has treated her unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman