DRN-3765632
The complaint
Miss M complains about the service given by Inter Partner Assistance SA under her home 
emergency cover. She says their actions caused undue increased costs.  
What happened
Miss M has home emergency cover underwritten by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA).
She reported a leaking radiator and loss of boiler pressure in November and December 
2020. On both occasions an engineer attended, isolated the radiator, tightened the valve and 
restored boiler pressure. 
Miss M then reported the same issue again in July 2021. She says that it was after this that it 
was noted that there had been an ongoing leak since the December 2020 visit. Miss M said 
that by remedial work not having been completed, meant flooring was damaged, which she 
made a claim for under her home insurance policy. She complained to IPA. 
IPA responded to say that they completed the remedial work in July 2021, as a gesture of 
goodwill. But that it wasnt required under the terms of Miss Ms policy. They said that they 
acted fairly in the work that was completed in November and December 2020 and werent 
responsible for damage to the flooring. 
Miss M remained unhappy. She said that they shouldve completed remedial work at the 
time of the earlier visits. She also said that their actions meant the leak mustnt have 
properly been resolved and this caused her to need to make a home insurance claim for her 
damaged flooring. She brought her complaint to our service for an independent review. 
An investigator looked into it and she said that the policy only provided for a temporary repair 
in a home emergency, and that is what she believes was carried out. She didnt find that IPA 
had acted unreasonable or that they had acted negligently and caused further damage. 
Miss M didnt agree and said that she hadnt been told permanent repair was needed on 
either of the first two visits.  As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me 
to reach a decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Miss Ms policy, IPA are responsible for attending and resolving a home emergency 
with emergency repairs. In Miss Ms policy booklet, emergency repairs are defined as Work 
undertaken by an Authorised Contractor to resolve the Emergency by completing a 
Temporary Repair.
Engineers attended on behalf of IPA in November and December 2020 and I believe they 
acted in accordance with the policy. They isolated the issue, tightened the leaking valves 
and restored pressure to the boiler. 
Miss M is unhappy that when the issue was apparent again in July 2021, it was found that 
there had been a leak during this period and this had caused further damage to the flooring. 
Firstly, I note that the engineers appear to have carried out remedial work at this time which 
provided what seems to be a permanent fix for this issue. This was not required under    
Miss Ms policy and IPA have said this was completed as a gesture of goodwill. 
Secondly, Miss M has said that she should have been told that further and permanent 
remedial work was needed, when the engineers visited at the end of 2020. Unfortunately, I 
havent been provided with anything from that time to show whether this was said to Miss M. 
However, Miss M should have been aware from her policy booklet that she was only covered 
for a temporary repair and this was defined as, Repairs and/or work immediately required 
to stop further damage being caused by the Emergency. You will need to replace this with a 
Permanent Repair.
I cant safely conclude that the engineer acted unreasonably when they attended Miss Ms 
property in November and December 2020. Miss M has said herself that they were separate 
issues to different sides of the radiator and each dealt with in each visit. I cant say that on 
either occasion that the engineer knew the work they completed in tightening the valve 
would not resolve the issue. So, I cant hold them responsible for not telling Miss M to 
complete a permanent repair. 
In summary, I believe IPA did as was required under the policy during the visits at the end of 
2020. I also havent seen enough to conclude that the engineers should have known at that 
time, that the fix would not resolve the issue and that permanent repair was required. I 
appreciate this was clear seven months later and that further damage had been caused in 
that time. However, I cant hold IPA responsible for that. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 February 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman