DRN-4360233
The complaint
Miss F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly closed her bank 
account.
What happened
Miss F opened a basic bank account with Halifax in March 2023. Halifax says it carried out a 
review on 16 May 2023 and took the decision to give two months notice of its intention to 
close the account. Halifax sent Miss F a text message and letter confirming its decision.
Miss F and her support worker called Halifax back and asked for further information about its 
decision. During their discussions with Miss F Halifax agreed to consider an appeal and 
indicated it was likely to be successful. But the appeal was declined and Miss Fs account 
was closed on 21 July 2023.
Miss F complained and Halifax issued a final response on 7 August 2023. Halifax apologised 
and said it shouldnt have arranged for Miss Fs account to close and that it would contact 
her to confirm when she could reapply. Halifax added that it had set an expectation that the 
appeal would be successful which had caused confusion. Halifax paid Miss F £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused plus £25 for call costs.
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Fs complaint. They thought Halifax had made 
a reasonable offer to resolve Miss Fs complaint and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss F 
asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the timeline for Miss Fs case. Miss F has explained that when Halifax contacted her 
about its decision to close her account she quickly made contact with the assistance of a 
support worker. They wanted to get an understanding of why Halifax had taken the decision 
and whether there was an appeals process. Halifax accepts it subsequently agreed to 
accept an appeal from Miss F but overstated the chances of success, causing further 
confusion.
Halifax has confirmed it shouldnt have closed Miss Fs account. In its final response, Halifax 
adds that it will confirm when Miss F is able to reapply. I appreciate Miss F may want Halifax 
to reopen the account it closed. But Im satisfied its reasonable for Halifax to take Miss F 
though its application process should she wish to open a new account. Ive taken the 
additional inconvenience into account when deciding how to fairly resolve Miss Fs case.
Ive considered whether the existing settlement is fair. Miss F has explained that there were 
difficulties opening the account in March 2023 because of some disputed information on her 
credit file. I can understand why Miss F feels upset that just two months later Halifax took the 
decision to close the account without being able to explain why. Im satisfied Halifax caused 
further concern to Miss F by the way it represented the appeals process. And I think its fair 
to say Miss F wouldve been particularly frustrated to find out the account closure had been 
processed in error after everything else that had happened. Im not persuaded that £200 
fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Miss F by the way her 
account was handled by Halifax.
Based on the information Ive seen so far I intend to increase the settlement by £200, taking 
the total award to £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused plus £25 for Miss Fs call 
costs. In my view, that figure more reasonably reflects the level of trouble and upset caused 
to Miss F and is a fairer way to resolve her complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Miss F responded to confirm she is willing to 
proceed in line with the provisional decision. Miss F added that her account was immediately 
blocked which meant she wasnt given the two months notice required. Miss F also said that 
Halifax had failed to contact her to discuss applying for another bank account. 
Halifax advised it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Miss F for providing some additional comments. Ive taken what Miss F has 
said into account. Having reviewed Miss Fs case again, I still think her complaint should be 
upheld for the same reasons. 
Miss F has explained she still wants to open an account with Halifax. So Halifax should also 
make arrangements to complete a bank account application with Miss F as soon as is 
convenient. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Fs complaint and direct Bank of Scotland trading as 
Halifax to settle by paying her a total of £425, less any compensation already paid. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or reject 
my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman