DRN-1457191
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) declined a chargeback request 
despite him providing evidence for it to continue with the claim.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr A and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr A said that he paid £456 for a mortgage/property survey report which he says he never 
received and so raised a chargeback claim with Barclays. The merchant said the £456 
payment was non refundable and disputed the claim.
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays didn't escalate the chargeback to Visa to arbitrate, and 
Barclays have said they didnt because they think that Mr A was unlikely to have won. In 
their final response letter Barclays said they had received evidence from the merchant to 
show that the service was non refundable, but accepted that Mr A had not received the 
service he had paid for.
But Barclays did pay Mr A £100 in compensation as it accepted it had not processed 
evidence he submitted.
Mr A was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so brought the complaint to this 
service and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator agreed there had 
poor service. He thought that Barclays should refund Mr A the £456 in order to put things 
right. Barclays didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have taken into 
account both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably. Ive 
looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. Where evidence is not 
complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the light of the evidence 
which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I think is right for 
each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I do think that Barclays are at 
fault. Ill explain why.
The chargeback rules arent set by Barclays. Those rules are set by the card provider, 
whose symbol is on the card. In this case it is Visa. That card provider has an agreement with lots of banks as to how its cards are used. The agreement also covers when Barclays 
can try to make a chargeback for its customers, to try to get the money spent on a card 
back. Those rules are quite strict, and Barclays cant change them. Making a chargeback 
request just means Barclays will ask for the money back. It doesnt mean it will get it. 
The central point to this complaint is whether Mr A received the service he paid for. That was 
the provision of a property survey report to assist in his mortgage application. Mr A says he 
never received it, and Barclays accepted that in the final response letter. I have seen 
evidence of a survey report being carried out, but that of itself does not show it was sent to 
Mr A. For Mr As part he says he chased the merchant for the report on the telephone on 
numerous occasions without success. I have no reason or evidence to contradict Mr As 
account, and there is no evidence to suggest the merchant actually sent the report to Mr A. 
From my reading of the papers the merchants defence to the claim, has been that the 
payment of the £456 was simply non-refundable. In fact Barclays adopted that line when it 
sent Mr A its final response.
So in the circumstances of this case, Barclays arent required to ask the scheme provider for 
the transaction to be reversed, but they can do so if they think its likely to succeed. We 
generally say its good practice for a card provider it to try one if theres a reasonable 
prospect of success. Equally, if Barclays think the chargeback is likely to be rejected by the 
card provider then they dont have to raise it. 
But I think this was a claim which was likely to succeed. Mr A paid for a service and the 
balance of evidence shows he did not receive the report. The defence that the payment was 
non-refundable is flawed since it cannot go to the non-provision of the service. And in this 
case the service paid for wasnt provided  that being the provision of the report to Mr A.  
Putting things right
So I think Barclays should have escalated this chargeback claim to VISA and I agree with 
our investigator that in order to put things right it would be fair, and reasonable, to refund Mr 
A with the £456.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. Barclays has already paid £100 to settle this complaint, and I direct that they shall pay 
a further £456 to Mr A which is in my view fair and reasonable. 
So my final decision is that Barclays should pay Mr A £456.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman