DRN-1415732
Complaint
Miss R says MYJAR Limited (trading as MyJar) irresponsibly lent to her.          
Background
This complaint is about four instalment loans that MyJar provided to Miss R between April 
2014 and July 2014. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Rs complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been 
provided with loan 4. MyJar disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MyJar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MyJar should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
done so, I think that MyJar should reasonably have seen that Miss R was unlikely to have 
been able to sustainably repay loan 4. I say this because the information MyJar itself gathered showed that Miss R didnt have 
sufficient disposable income to be able to sustainably repay this loan. I accept that the loan 
was repaid but that doesnt mean that this was done without Miss R experiencing financial 
difficulty or borrowing further which is what would have had to happen for the loan to have 
been sustainably repaid. 
Miss R had to pay interest and charges on a loan that MyJar shouldnt have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out and MyJar should put things right.
Putting things right  what MyJar needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss R paid on loan 4;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
any adverse information about loan 4 should be removed from Miss Rs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MyJar to take off tax from this interest. MyJar must give 
Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Rs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Miss R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman