DRN-2433999
The complaint
Miss S complained about the way esure Insurance Limited handled a claim she made under 
her car insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2019 Miss Ss car was damaged when another car hit it while it was parked. Esure 
arranged for her car to be repaired. Miss S wasnt happy with the repairs and her car had to 
go back to the repairer on two occasions as further work was needed. In February 2020 
Miss S complained to esure that the claim was still open. She said shed not received 
paperwork sent by esures legal partners and there had been delays caused by the further 
work needed on her car. She also said nothing seemed to have happened for four months 
between October 2019 and February 2020. Esure acknowledged that rectification work had 
been needed on her car and accepted its communication could have been better. So, it gave 
Miss S £200 to compensate her for the service it had provided and later reduced her 
premium by 10%. Miss S accepted this complaint had been resolved. 
In early May 2020 Miss S complained to esure again. She said her claim was still open and 
as a result of the unnecessary delays, shed not been able to switch her car insurance to 
another insurer whose policy was cheaper than esures. She also said shed had to spend 
multiple hours and phone calls trying to establish the status of her claim. Esure replied about 
two weeks later and said her claim was now closed. It apologised for the confusion caused 
and agreed to waive the cancellation fee if Miss S wanted to cancel her policy now. Miss S 
cancelled her policy at the end of May 2020 and esure gave her a pro rata refund. But she 
remained unhappy and approached this service. 
Our investigator thought esure needed to do more to resolve the complaint. Esures legal 
partners had confirmed theyd taken legal action against the third-party driver but theyd 
recovered all the funds and returned those to esure by mid-March. Our investigator couldnt 
see any reason why the claim had been kept open beyond then and she thought the delay of 
over two months in notifying Miss S of the closure of the claim was unnecessary. Our 
investigator thought esure should pay Miss S £100 for the trouble and upset it had caused. 
Miss S agreed with the investigators view but esure didnt. It accepted thered been a delay 
in closing the claim but thought the impact on Miss S had been minimal. It didnt accept 
Miss S wasnt able to switch policies to another insurer earlier and said it only had evidence 
of her making one telephone call between March and May 2020, not the multiple calls 
claimed. Esure said it had already given Miss S £200 and didnt think a further payment of 
£100 was justified. As esure didnt agree with the investigators view, Miss Ss complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Esure accept it delayed in telling Miss S her claim had been closed. It received the 
remaining funds from the other driver in early March 2020 and Ive not seen any reason why 
the claim couldnt have been closed at that point, or soon after. Esure says it closed the 
claim towards the end of April 2020 and while that may be the case, it didnt tell Miss S for 
almost another month. Im satisfied the delay of over two months in closing the claim, and 
telling Miss S it was closed, was unnecessary. 
So, what was the impact of this poor service on Miss S? She says she tried to switch her car 
insurance to another insurer when her esure policy was due to expire in February 2020 but 
she says the third-party insurer told her it wouldnt insure her while her claim remained open. 
She says it also told her very few insurers would do so. Esure has questioned this but I have 
no reason to doubt Miss Ss account of the conversation with the third-party insurer. Miss S 
says she wanted to get the cheapest car insurance policy possible and the evidence 
suggests she could have bought it significantly cheaper from another insurer. So, Im 
satisfied Miss S would have cancelled her policy with esure as early as possible had she 
been able to. 
At the time Miss S complained to esure in May 2020, she says a third-party insurer was 
offering a policy that was about £130 less than esure. Ive also seen evidence that when she 
cancelled her esure policy at the end of May 2020, Miss S bought a new policy which was 
about £230 less than her esure policy. So, on balance, Im satisfied this meant Miss S was 
paying a higher premium between March and May 2020 than she would have done had she 
been able to switch her policy sooner. 
Esure has said its already paid Miss S £200 to resolve her complaint. But that was for her 
first complaint, which was about the delays in repairing her car and for the poor 
communication she set out in her complaint of February 2020. Her second complaint 
focused on the unnecessary delay between March and May 2020 in closing her claim. Esure 
apologised for the confusion it had caused and waived the cancellation fee but I think it 
needs to do more to recognise the impact of that poor service. 
Theres some dispute about the number of calls Miss S made to esure during this period but 
the evidence shows that, at the very least, the delay in telling her the claim had been closed 
caused Miss S some degree of inconvenience and I think esure also needs to do more to 
acknowledge that.
Putting things right
Insurers use a number of different factors to calculate insurance premiums and I cant be 
sure how much Miss S would have saved had she been able to buy a policy with another 
insurer earlier. And if a calculation was possible, it would also need to take account of the 
cancellation fee esure waived and the higher fee Miss S might have had to pay had she 
been able to cancel her policy in March 2020. But taking these issues into consideration I 
still think its fair to say she lost out due to esures delays. And Miss S also had the 
inconvenience of having to contact esure to find out what was going on in this period.
In light of the above, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for esure to pay Miss S £100 for the trouble and upset caused 
by its poor service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve this complaint, esure 
Insurance Limited should pay Miss S £100 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor 
service.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman