DRN-3135638
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Aviva Insurance limited (Aviva) has unfairly declined her claim. 
What happened
Mrs T has a travel insurance policy through her packaged bank account, underwritten by 
Aviva. She is a yoga instructor and had booked a yoga retreat for herself and her students 
abroad for May 2020, for which she had paid a deposit. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 
she had to cancel.
Mrs T made a claim for the loss of deposit but Aviva declined on the basis that the yoga 
retreat was in relation to Mrs Ts business and business travel wasnt covered unless it was 
office-based.
Mrs T complained and said she had called her bank and had been told that she would be 
covered for cancellation. Aviva said it didnt have any record of the calls Mrs T had made. 
Unhappy, Mrs T referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think there was sufficient evidence to 
show that Aviva had done anything wrong. Mrs T disagreed and said she had provided 
copies of her phone bills showing she had called the banks customer services number three 
times. She said if she had been told that she wouldnt be covered, she would have 
purchased alternative travel insurance. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this should be upheld. And largely for the same reasons as 
already explained by the investigator. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy wording, on page 3 says:
Are business trips covered? We will provide cover if you travel outside the UK to 
carry out office-based clerical or administrative duties. You are covered for up to a 
maximum of 31 days in any calendar year. We do not cover any other type of 
business travel, even if you have some leisure time during your trip.
Under general exclusions, the policy excludes:
business travel if your job is not wholly an office-based role and your trip involves 
dealing with members of the public or any tasks other than clerical or administrative 
duties
So based on the above, Mrs Ts trip wouldnt be covered under the policy as the yoga retreat 
was in connection with her self-employed business - which is excluded under the policy 
terms as business travel.
Mrs T says she called her bank through which she had the travel insurance to ask whether 
she would be covered under the policy. And she says she was told that claims for 
cancellation, in her circumstances, would be covered. Unfortunately, the calls arent 
available from the bank and Aviva say they have no record of Mrs Ts calls. So although Mrs 
T has provided evidence of calling the bank, without listening to the calls or seeing any call 
notes, I cant fairly determine what was discussed without knowing the exact questions Mrs 
T had asked, the information she provided and the responses she received. And so I have to 
consider the other evidence available, which in this case, is the policy wording, as set out 
above.
I think the policy terms are clear that the trip Mrs T had planned would be excluded. So Im 
sorry to disappoint Mrs T and I understand her frustrations but I cant fairly ask Aviva to 
cover her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman