DRN-2729310
The complaint
Mr F complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim under his 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
  
What happened
In 2017, Mr F contacted the legal helpline  a benefit provided by his legal expenses policy  
to get advice. He wanted to extend his property but had been told that, due to the close 
proximity of his neighbours trees, hed have to pay an additional cost for engineered 
foundations. Hed spoken to his neighbour about removing the trees, but theyd said no. 
The legal helpline informed Mr F that any claim made on his legal expenses policy was likely 
to be declined. This was because Mr F had told them the encroachment began about 20 
years ago and his policy wasnt taken out until 2014. So they were of the opinion the incident 
giving rise to the claim had begun before the policy started. 
Mr F tried to negotiate with his neighbour, but when this wasnt successful he decided to pay 
the increased price for his extension. Since that time, the neighbour has ceased maintaining 
the trees and theyd grown taller than they were before. Mr F obtained an expert report to 
determine the risk the trees pose to his home. Based on the findings of this report, he 
contacted UKI in 2020 to make a claim.
UKI declined the claim as it said the date of incident didnt occur within the policy period, 
which is a condition of cover. 
Mr F disputes this. He says the trees were planted approximately 30 years ago and posed 
no threat. As they grew, he says he had informal conversations with this neighbour with a 
view to them being maintained to a sustainable height so not to block out light to his 
property. 
He says that it wasnt until he enquired about extending his property that he found out the 
risk the trees posed to his home and the damage being caused by their roots. He says any 
past issues with the trees had been managed as good friends and neighbours by agreeing 
that the neighbour would maintain the trees to a certain height. And its only since he 
extended his property that theyve grown above that. 
Mr F raised a complaint. And he wants UKI to cover his claim going forward.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was satisfied that there was no claim to pursue 
prior to 2017, so he recommended that UKI reconsider the claim under the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. As UKI didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs legal expenses policy says it will provide cover as long 
asthe date of incident is during a period cover was in force. It defines date of incident as 
the date of the incident that leads to a claim. It goes on to say that if more than one 
incident arises at different times from the same cause, the date of incident is the date of the 
first of these incidents.
Its not uncommon for legal expenses policies to restrict cover to incidents that occur during 
the policy period. I dont consider this to be unfair  insurance is meant to cover uncertain 
risks, not inevitable or existing events. So I need to decide when the incident giving rise to 
this claim most likely first occurred and what Mr F was likely to have known when he first 
took out his policy. 
Based on Mr Fs testimony, all conversations with his neighbour regarding the trees appear 
to be informal and neighbourly. I havent seen anything to suggest that an incident had 
occurred which couldve reasonably led to a claim prior to 2017. 
I appreciate UKIs concern that the trees would always have posed a threat to the property. 
But its not enough to say that because the trees were there, a claim could occur. There 
would need to be a specific incident which caused Mr F to become aware there was a 
problem with the trees and that his neighbour hadnt taken action to deal with it.  
UKI hasnt identified a specific incident that it relies on as being the start of the series of 
incidents that led to a claim. Instead, it relies on a vague call note written by the legal 
helpline which indicates the tree roots were already encroaching on Mr Fs property. It says:
PHs NDN has a row of conifers close to the boundary which have roots which are 
already encroaching onto PHs property. PH wishes to build an extension but will 
have to pay £10k for engineered foundations in order to get around potential heave 
problems resulting from the root encroachment. There are cracks in PHs walls 
resulting from the tree branches already but this problem seems to be alleviated by 
reducing the height of the trees. PH ideally would like the NDNs to remove the trees 
altogether. The trees were planted about 30 years ago and the encroachment began 
about 20 years ago.
Whilst the notes say an encroachment had already occurred, and had begun 20 years 
previously, it isnt clear if Mr F said this or whether its the legal helplines opinion based on 
what was said. But more importantly, it doesnt identify when Mr F wouldve reasonably 
become aware of this encroachment and when he wouldve reasonably become aware that 
his neighbour wasnt going to do anything about it. That would be when the incident giving 
rise to a claim wouldve first occurred.
These notes also support Mr Fs testimony that previous problems with the trees had been 
dealt with informally by agreeing a height restriction with his neighbour. So any problem he 
may have had it the past appears to have been resolved and this is a new issue. 
From the information provided, Im not persuaded that UKIs decision to decline the claim 
was fair in the circumstances. I say this because it hasnt been able to demonstrate that the 
date of incident occurred prior to the start of the policy. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. I direct U K Insurance Limited 
to reconsider Mr Fs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman