DRN-3439082
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain because ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERGO) hasnt paid a 
cancellation claim under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to ERGO include the agents it has appointed to administer claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by a company which is now
known as ERGO. The policy was bought through a third-party transport providers website.
Mr and Mrs M were due to travel to a destination in the UK in June 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On
23 March 2020, the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement,
commonly referred to as lockdown, due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. The
government announcement included an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited
list of essential reasons. As a result, on 24 March 2020, the third-party transport provider told
Mr and Mrs M that all flights were being suspended.
Mr and Mrs M deferred their flights to a later date and made a claim under their policy with
ERGO for their non-refundable accommodation costs. ERGO said it wouldnt pay the claim,
because Mr and Mrs Ms policy contained an exclusion for regulations set by the
government.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M complained to ERGO and said information on a website outlined
that Covid-19 cancellation cover would be available for claims arising from flight
cancellations. ERGO maintained its decision to decline the claim, so Mr and Mrs M brought
the matter to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but she didnt uphold Mr and Mrs
Ms complaint. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so their complaint
was referred to me. I made my provisional decision about the complaint earlier this month. In 
it, I said:
The business formerly known as ERV (Europaische Reiseversicherung AG (trading in the
UK as ETI  International Travel Protection), now known as ERGO, is the underwriter
(insurer) who provides this insurance policy. This information is set out on page 1, and on
page 2 under the definition of We/Our/Us/Ourselves, of the terms and conditions of Mr and
Mrs Ms policy.
I can understand why there might be some confusion on Mr and Mrs Ms part about which
business was responsible for providing the benefits under their policy due to how the policy
is branded, and because another business who administers the policy on behalf of ERGO is
repeatedly mentioned in the policy terms and conditions. But, ERGO is the business with
sole responsibility for the decision to accept or decline Mr and Mrs Ms claim under the
contract of insurance they hold with it.
The information which Mr and Mrs M have referred to about extended cancellation cover
was displayed on the website of a company which Ill call T. T is an independent broker,
who offers insurance policies provided by a number of different insurers (including but not
limited to ERGO). T is a separate and distinct business to ERGO and T is also a separate
and distinct business to ERGOs similarly named agent who administers the policy on
ERGOs behalf. T isnt the business who provides the benefits under Mr and Mrs Ms
contract of insurance and ERGO isnt responsible for or bound by any of the information
displayed on Ts website. In any event, I interpret the extended cancellation cover
information which Mr and Mrs M have referred to as being displayed on Ts website as
relating only to policies sold up to and including 16 March 2020 branded by a company
which Ill call DOA. Mr and Mrs Ts policy wasnt a DOA branded policy.
When deciding whether I think Mr and Mrs Ms claim should reasonably be covered under
their policy, Ive only had regard to the contract they entered into with ERGO as set out in
their policy terms and conditions referenced IOS/19  09/18. Any information displayed on
Ts website isnt relevant to whether I think ERGO should pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim. I hope
the explanation Ive set out above has been helpful as to why.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers should
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and
Mrs Ms complaint.
Section 1 of Mr and Mrs Ms policy provides for ERGO to pay for certain non-refundable
expenses if a trip has to be cancelled for one of a list of specific, insured reasons. But Mr
and Mrs Ms trip wasnt cancelled for any of these reasons. Furthermore, Section 1 of the
policy contains a specific exclusion which says:
What is not covered 
3 
(g) regulations set by the government of any country.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ms flights were
cancelled/deferred because of lockdown regulations and travel restrictions imposed by the
UK government.
So, not only is the reason for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ms trip not covered as a listed,
insured event under Section 1 of their policy, I think the circumstances of their claim are
specifically excluded anyway.
Ive also considered the other sections of Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policy  including
Section 2 Travel Delay  but I dont think theres any section of their policy which would
provide a benefit in the circumstances they found themselves in. Section 2 of Mr and Mrs
Ms policy also contains an exclusion relating to the orders or recommendations of regulatory
bodies.
I dont think ERGOs final response letter to Mr and Mrs M accurately addressed the events
that had taken place, and it may have been helpful if ERGO had explained to Mr and Mrs M
from the outset why the information on Ts website wasnt relevant to their claim. However,
overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I dont think their claim is covered under
the terms and conditions of their insurance policy with ERGO and I dont think there are anyreasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask ERGO to accept their claim.
ERGO responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr and 
Mrs M replied to say their contract was never with ERGO, and Ts relationship with ERGO is 
a separate contractual matter between the two businesses. Mr and Mrs T also disagreed 
with my interpretation of the information set out on Ts website. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im genuinely sorry that Mr and Mrs M found my provisional decision unsatisfactory and I 
dont doubt their strength of feeling about what has happened. But what Mr and Mrs M have 
said about the contract they entered into simply isnt correct. Their contract for the provision 
of travel insurance benefits is with ERGO. T isnt responsible for paying their claim and this 
service cant consider a complaint against a business about something which it isnt 
responsible for. 
Im afraid I dont interpret the information displayed on Ts website in that same way that Mr 
and Mrs M do. But, for the reasons Ive already outlined, this information doesnt have any 
impact on my decision that ERGO hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining this 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman