DRN-2718797
The complaint
 Mr W believes Black Horse Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing two Hire Purchase (HP) 
agreements hed applied for.
What happened
 On 23 October 2016, Mr W purchased a static caravan for £18,495. He paid a £10,000 
deposit and took out a HP agreement with Black Horse. The agreement was for £8,495 over 
72 months, with monthly repayments of £155.15. Ill refer to this as Caravan 1 and Loan 1.
On 3 December 2016, Mr W purchased a second static caravan for £24,995. He paid a 
£5,000 deposit and took another HP agreement with Black Horse. This agreement was for 
£19,995 over 120 months, with monthly repayments of £258.48. Ill refer to this as Caravan 2 
and Loan 2.
In November 2018 Mr Ws financial circumstances changed  his business collapsed, and 
he became ill. This impacted his ability to maintain payments to Black Horse. In April 2019, 
he handed the caravans back to the caravan park. These were subsequently repossessed 
by Black Horse. And, due to the arrears, Black Horse defaulted both agreements.
Mr W complained to Black Horse in June 2019 that the loans were unaffordable, and that 
they should never have been approved. Black Horse didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly, 
so Mr W brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, at the time Mr W applied for the loans, they were affordable to 
him. And this was without relying on any income he may have received from renting out the 
caravans. She also said Mr W had maintained payments on both loans until February 2019, 
and she thought this also showed the loans were affordable until this time. So, while Mr Ws 
circumstances had now changed, she didnt think that Black Horse had done anything wrong 
in approving the loans in 2016.
Mr W was also unhappy with the park the caravans were sited on  he didnt think it was as 
advertised; the site fees had been raised; he felt he was being harassed for site fee 
payments; and he wasnt achieving the levels of rental hed been told was possible. The 
investigator explained that these werent something that we could look into, as they related 
to the actions of the park owners, and not Black Horse.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and he said the finance documents he signed 
were forged/false and he believes this renders them null and void. This is because he 
said he was never asked for proof of income, the incomes on the application forms were 
made up by the salesman, and that he was in rented accommodation and didnt have a 
mortgage. Mr W also commented on the actions of the caravan park, which included inflating 
the prices of caravans, and bombarding him with advertising material for caravans.
Mr W provided his personal bank statements from 20 December 2015 to 19 February 2017, 
and from 20 March 2017 to 19 April 2019; his business bank account statements from 20 
December 2015 to 19 December 2018; and a copy of his credit file. He also provided copies 
of his self-assessment tax returns for the tax years 2015/16 and 2016/17, which show hed 
declared incomes of £7,711 and £15,615 respectively.
Based on this information, the investigator revised her view. She said that, although Mr Ws 
income for 2016 wasnt the £35,000 thatd been declared on the application for Loan 1; due 
to the size of the loan, the sizable deposit Mr W put down, and the information on his credit 
file; she thought Black Horse had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. So she 
didnt think theyd acted irresponsibly by approving this loan.
The investigator said Mr W had applied for Loan 2 with Black Horse just over a month after 
Loan 1. This meant his total borrowing was increasing to almost £30,000; and the income 
declared on the Loan 2 application was £24,000 - significantly lower than on the Loan 1 
application. So she thought Black Horse shouldve carried out additional checks to verify his 
income and expenditure, and to ensure this increase in borrowing was affordable.
The investigator considered the bank statements and said that, if Black Horse had asked for 
these at the time, they wouldve seen that Mr W didnt have the disposable income to 
support the payments for Loan 2. So she thought this should never have been agreed. As a 
result, she said Black Horse should cancel the agreement for Loan 2 and refund Mr W his 
deposit, the interest and fees hed paid, plus 8% simple interest.
Mr W still didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the false misrepresentation by the 
caravan park supersedes any information examined in this case and thus cancels the total 
agreements forthwith. 
The investigator didnt agree that there had been misrepresentation because Mr Ws 
intentions were to use Caravan 1 for personal and family holidays and only rent it out when it 
wasnt in use. So she didnt think that Mr W being told that he could achieve £12,000 a year 
full-time rental income was the reason why he brought it. And hed been able to achieve 
around £6,000 a year rent for the time he wasnt using it. She also said the rental didnt form 
part of the agreement with Black Horse, nor could she hold Black Horse responsible for the 
issues Mr W had had with the caravan site over the years.
Mr W said he would only accept the investigators view if his site fees, and certain other 
expenses hed incurred, were also returned. But the investigator explained that the ongoing 
site fees didnt form part of the agreement with Black Horse, so this wasnt something she 
could ask Black Horse to do. Mr W didnt agree with this and said, the site fees are included 
in the finance agreement.
Black Horse also didnt agree with the investigator. They felt theyd carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks when approving Loan 2. They said that the level of income in 
[Loan 2] was lower than [Loan 1], however  this still met our lending requirements [and] it 
would not have been necessary to query this. They also dont think that a change in an 
applicants circumstances is unusual and it is the income at the point of application which is 
most key. Black Horse also say that the income declared was verified by an index of 
average incomes by postcode and profile, and that Mr W signed to say the loan was 
affordable. They also say they consider a false declaration of income to be fraud.
Black Horse say they calculated Mr Ws monthly income to be £1,624 which, after deducting 
his credit commitments of £387, and their assessment of his living costs (£372), this left Mr 
W with £865 disposable income each month with which to pay the £258.48 payment for 
Loan 2.Because neither party accepted the investigators view, this matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr W would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Black Horse make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr W 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Black Horse didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Ws 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Loan 1
The application for Loan 1 had a declared income of £35,000, and I accept that Mr W says 
this wasnt correct. And he considers this makes it a fraudulent application which he thinks 
means the agreement should be cancelled. But its not my role to determine whether any 
fraud took place and, if it did, whether Mr W was aware of this  determining whether fraud 
took place is a matter for the courts. Black Horse were only able to assess the application 
put to them, based on the information they were provided with, which is what they did.
Loan 1 was for £8,495 and Mr W put down a £10,000 deposit  more than 50% of the 
purchase price. Black Horse electronically verified Mr Ws income, and the credit search they 
did at the time showed he was up to date with all of his payments. The credit search also 
showed that Mr W had a mortgage which, from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied was the 
case at the time  he didnt sell his property and move into rented accommodation until 
November 2016, after Loan 1 had been taken out.
Based on the information they had, and the verification theyd done, Black Horse calculated 
Mr Ws mortgage, credit commitments, and living costs to be £797 a month. Given the 
declared income, this gave Mr W £1,450 disposable income each month, from which to pay 
the Loan 1 payment of £155.15.Based on the above, Im satisfied that Black Horse carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks for Loan 1, and I wouldnt expect them to do anything more. So Im also satisfied that 
Black Horse didnt act irresponsibly by approving Loan 1.
Loan 2
The application for Loan 2 was made six weeks later than Loan 1. This was for £19,995, 
which increased Mr Ws total lending with Black Horse to £28,490. The declared income on 
the application form was £24,000 - £11,000 lower than that for Loan 1. Black Horse carried 
out the same checks as they had for Loan 1, and they calculated Mr Ws disposable income 
to be £865 a month, from which to pay the Loan 2 payment of £258.48.
While I appreciate Black Horse have said that it was the income at the time of the application 
that was important; I dont agree that an £11,000 drop in the declared income between 23 
October and 3 December 2016 wasnt something that shouldve been queried, even if the 
lower income did meet their lending criteria. This was a substantial decrease in a short 
period of time, and within a few months Black Horse were being asked to approve lending 
that was more than the income declared on either application. And I feel the indebtedness to 
income ratio alone warranted further investigation.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr W could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
The main additional check Id expect Black Horse to have done is to check Mr Ws income 
and expenditure to ensure their finance was affordable at the point of application, and to see 
that affordability was sustainable throughout the lifetime of the lending.
Mr W has provided his bank statements for the period leading up to both applications. So, in 
the absence of anything else, I think these statements give a good indication of what Black 
Horse would likely have discovered if theyd asked about Mr Ws income and expenditure at 
the time.
The bank statements show Mr W had two sources of income  his business and additional 
employment. While Ive seen Mr W said the additional employment was a seasonal job, 
which brought him in a limited income during the winter months, his bank statements for 
January to December 2016 show that this was a regular income he received each month. So 
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that this was a regular income throughout the year.
The bank statements show that Mr W received an average of £218.05 a month from his 
business; and an average of £829.72 a month from his additional employment. A total of 
£1,047.77 a month.
Ive seen a full copy of Mr Ws credit file from April 2020, which shows his commitments at 
the time of the application for Loan 2. And payments for all of these are showing on his bank 
statements  an average of £269.97 a month for the period June to November 2016. In 
addition to this, Mr W was paying £525 a month rent (from December 2016 onwards) and 
was paying £155.15 a month to Loan 1. And Black Horse had calculated Mr Ws living 
expenses to be £372 a month. So, taking all of these into consideration, Mr Ws monthly 
expenditure was £274.35 a month more than his income. 
So the Loan 2 payment of £258.48 wasnt affordable, and Black Horse shouldnt have 
approved this lending.
Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?I havent seen anything to make me think Black Horse acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
Putting things right
 Even though Mr W didnt take advantage of this on a regular basis, he had year-round 
access/use of Caravan 2 from December 2016 until April 2019. So I think its right that he 
should pay for this access/usage. But, as I dont think the finance shouldve been approved, 
Ive thought about how to put M W back in the position he wouldve been in if this hadnt 
happened. So I think that Black Horse should cancel the agreement. They should also 
refund the payments Mr W made, less an amount for his fair usage. And his credit file should 
reflect that Loan 2 shouldnt have been approved.
Theres no set formula for working out what fair usage should be. So Ive considered the 
amount of interest charged on the agreement overall, Mr Ws usage of Caravan 2, the fact 
that the holiday park was open all year round for owners, and the limited amount of rental 
income Mr W received from letting out Caravan 2 (£300 to £400 in total). Having done so, I 
think that that £175 for each month Mr W had access to Caravan 2 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr W has asked for the site fees to be refunded, as these were included in the finance 
agreements. Ive seen the invoice for Caravan 2 and, included in the £24,995 Mr W paid, 
were pitch fees for the current year £3,295. Its my understanding from the evidence that 
current year meant November 2016 to October 2017.
So, not all of the site fees Mr W was asked to pay were included in the amount being 
financed. And Mr W had use of the caravan until April 2019. So I think its only right that he 
pays the costs associated with this usage  including the site fees. Because of this, I wont 
be asking Black Horse to refund any additional site fees Mr W was required to pay.
So, Black Horse should:
cancel the agreement for Loan 2, with nothing further to pay;
refund everything Mr W had paid, minus a deduction of £175 for every month he was 
in possession of Caravan 2 to account for his fair usage of it; plus 8% simple interest 
yearly on any overpayments Mr W has made, from the date of the overpayment to 
the date of the refund ; and
remove all adverse information relating to Loan 2 from Mr Ws credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Black Horse to take off tax from this interest. Black Horse 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Because my view was different to the recommendation made by the investigator, I gave both 
parties the opportunity to comment on this before I made my decision final.
Black Horse didnt make any comments, but Mr W again said that the sale was 
misrepresented, and he feels that he should receive the £22,449.29 he paid for the caravan, 
site fees, and some of its contents. And I am very surprised as a government body you can 
ignore this fact. Mr W also said that he only stopped in the caravan four times.
I would like to remind Mr W that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an independent 
complaint handling service, acting as an alternative to the courts. As Ive said above, its not 
my role to determine whether any fraud and this is a matter for the courts. If Mr W chooses 
not to accept my decision, then hes free to take alternative court action should he so wish.I appreciate that, for a multitude of reasons, Mr W chose not to use the caravan very often. 
But he had access to Caravan 2 from December 2016 to April 2019 and was able to use it 
for this entire period. So I remain of the view that he should pay for this access/usage.
For the reasons given, Mr Ws comments do not change my view, and Ill be adopting this as 
my final decision.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Black Horse Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman