DRN-3684980
The complaint
Mr T complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday) 
irresponsibly provided him with a loan he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday approved a £2,500 loan for Mr T in April 2016. He was to pay 30 monthly 
instalments of £215.69 and the total to pay was therefore £6,470.70. 
Mr T said they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Everyday disagreed. They said that when they approved the loan they reviewed recent bank 
statements and Mr Ts credit file. They asked him about his personal circumstances and 
checked his income. They estimated his likely expenditure and concluded that he would 
have sufficient disposable income to sustainably afford repayments towards the loan they 
were providing.
Our adjudicator didnt agree and thought it was irresponsible for Everyday to provide the 
credit. The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I think Everyday completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the loan, 
but I think the information it collected should have told them the loan wasnt affordable.
Everyday had been provided with bank statements from Mr T. Those statements 
demonstrated that Mr T was struggling to maintain repayments to his current creditors. 
There were many returned direct debits and his main bank account was in unauthorised 
overdraft by the end of each month. Mr Ts credit file showed thered been a defaulted 
account within the last 36 months and that there had been recent missed payments on a 
couple of accounts.
Whilst it is clear some of the loan was to pay off a £517 credit card bill its not clear what the 
rest of the loan would be used for. Everyday say it was to pay off an overdraft, but Mr T 
didnt have one and I cant find sufficient evidence to suggest the balance of the funds was 
to pay off some of his other debts. On that basis it is difficult to support the assessment of 
disposable income that Everyday made. I think there was evidence Mr T wasnt managing 
his finances well before the loan was approved, and I think the loan Everyday provided 
would have been likely to make his indebtedness worse and it was therefore irresponsible to 
provide it.
Putting things right
As I dont think Everyday should have approved the loan I dont think its fair for it to have 
charged any interest or charges. However, Mr T has had the benefit of the capital he lent so 
I think he should pay that back. Therefore, Everyday should:
Deduct the repayments Mr T made from the amount he was lent.
If this results in Mr T having paid more than he received, any overpayments
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday should attempt to arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr T.
Remove any negative information they may have recorded on Mr Ts credit file 
relating to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, the business must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman