DRN-3938305
The complaint
Mr E complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS LEI) unfairly 
declined a claim he made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E holds legal expenses insurance with DAS LEI. A dispute has arisen with a neighbour 
who had building work carried out at their property. 
In accordance with the Party Wall Act 1996, Mr E and his neighbour entered into an 
agreement with a surveyor (Mr H) to carry out an assessment and make an award. Mr Es 
neighbour paid the surveyors fees.
Mr Es unhappy with Mr Hs conduct and is seeking to take legal action against him, alleging 
professional negligence in his actions and the award. He made a claim to DAS LEI seeking 
cover from his policy to fund this.
DAS LEI declined to cover Mr Es claim as it said the terms and conditions didnt cover the 
agreement he had with Mr H. Mr E complaint to DAS LEI and then our service. Our 
investigator concluded DAS LEI had fairly declined the claim. Mr E didnt agree and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Legal expenses insurance policies such as Mr Es dont cover all scenarios or incidents 
where a policyholder may take legal action. The extent of the policys cover is set out in the 
terms and conditions. The relevant condition in Mr Es policy, its agreed, is under the section 
headed Contract disputes. The terms and conditions set out the cover provided as:
A dispute arising from an agreement which you have entered into in a personal capacity
for:
(a) buying or hiring goods or services
(b) selling goods.
As this is a condition of the policy, the onus is on Mr E to demonstrate that the 
circumstances of his claim against Mr H fall within the cover.
DAS LEI initially said that Mr E hadnt been acting in a personal capacity in respect of the 
agreement with Mr H. It now acknowledges that was an incorrect conclusion, so I dont need 
to explore that any further.
DAS LEIs current position is that the agreement Mr E had with Mr H isnt one which the 
policy extends to cover because he wasnt liable for Mr Hs costs in preparing the award  
and so he didnt purchase or hire Mr Hs services. 
Mr H says its unreasonable for DAS LEI to rely on this, as he had no obligation to pay Mr 
Hs fees because of the provisions of the Party Wall Act. The neighbour was liable for the 
fees.
Im sympathetic to Mr Hs position, but cant agree that disputes arising from the agreement 
he entered into with Mr H fall within the cover on the policy.
In the absence of any further definitions of the words or phrases in the relevant condition, I 
have to take the ordinary and common meaning of them. Im satisfied the accepted meaning 
of hiring or purchasing includes the payment or exchange of something of value in return for 
the services being provided.
Mr E didnt pay Mr H or give something to him in exchange for him carrying out the 
assessment and preparing the award. I cant conclude that he hired or purchased Mr Hs 
services. The agreement between Mr E and Mr H wasnt an agreement for the buying or 
hiring of goods or services.
As thats the case, the agreement between Mr E and Mr H isnt one which falls within the 
policy cover. The policy therefore doesnt provide cover for any legal expenses Mr E incurs 
in taking action against Mr H in respect of his actions in carrying out the assessment and 
preparing the award.
Im aware that Mr E sourced Mr H to carry out the assessment, and that approaching a 
surveyor was recommended initially by DAS LEIs legal helpline. Neither of these things, 
however, indicate that Mr E bought or hired Mr Hs services. He wasnt responsible for the 
fees or any payment for the work done by Mr H. Thats the critical aspect which needs to be 
in place for an agreement to fall within the scope of the policy cover.
Im aware a claim has been made with DAS LEI in respect of the ongoing dispute with Mr Es 
neighbour. Nothing Ive said here has any effect on the cover for that claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited was entitled to decline cover for Mr Es claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman