DRN-3343892
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about an Individual Savings Account (ISA) he has with ReAssure 
Limited. He has complained that he was misinformed when the ISA was sold to him, as he 
was told it would pay off his mortgage after 25 years.
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage in 2001 for £71,000 over a 25-year term. The mortgage was on an 
interest-only basis and an equity ISA was sold as the repayment vehicle. The ISA had a 
target value matching the mortgage amount and included additional life and critical illness 
cover to protect the mortgage. 
Mr M complained to ReAssure in September 2021. ReAssure upheld the complaint. It 
calculated the position Mr M would have been in had he arranged his mortgage on a 
repayment basis. This involved calculating how much Mr M would have paid off a repayment 
mortgage up to the date of calculation in 2021. The costs of each mortgage were also 
compared. The surrender value of the ISA was then deducted from the loss that had been 
established. ReAssure offered Mr M just under £3,000. 
Mr M asked us to look at the offer hed been made, as he wasnt sure it was fair. 
One of our investigators looked at the offer and how it had been calculated. She explained to 
Mr M that the offer had been calculated in line with the regulators guidance for such 
complaints and she was satisfied it was fair. Mr M didnt accept the investigators opinion 
and said he was unhappy that he would still owe over £20,000 on his mortgage with only five 
years remaining on the term. Mr M also highlighted that he had been told that the ISA would 
pay out the amount needed to repay his mortgage. The investigator acknowledged this, but 
confirmed that there was nothing documented from the time that confirmed hed been given 
a guarantee. As Mr M remained unhappy, it was decided that the complaint would be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has said that he was given a guarantee in 2001 that the ISA would pay off his 
mortgage at the end of the term. I understand what he is saying, but quite simply, that isnt 
how the ISA works. The premiums paid to the ISA are invested by the product provider over 
the term and deductions are made for the protection benefits. The amount available at the 
end of the term isnt guaranteed and is dependent on whether the ISA performs well enough. 
As our investigator explained to Mr M, there was nothing from the time of the sale that 
supported Mr M being given a guarantee that the ISA would meet its target value. So I cant 
require ReAssure to clear Mr Ms mortgage either now or at the end of the mortgage term.
As such, ReAssure assessed whether, based on what Mr M told it about his circumstances, 
the ISA was appropriate for him in 2001. It determined that the risk of the ISA not paying out 
enough to repay the mortgage meant that it wasnt suitable for him. In that circumstance, 
ReAssure had to decide what, if Mr M hadnt been sold the ISA, he would have done in 
relation to his mortgage. It concluded that he would have had a repayment mortgage, which 
would have guaranteed the mortgage debt was cleared by the end of the 25 years.
When concerns about the sale of investment backed mortgages started to be made in 
significant numbers in the early 2000s, the regulator at the time set out how redress for 
mis-sold repayment vehicles should be calculated. This involved a comparison of the costs 
involved and the capital position. This is the method ReAssure used to calculate if Mr M had 
suffered a loss. It was established that he had paid around £7,000 less for his mortgage than 
he would have, had he had a repayment mortgage. This gain was not taken into account 
when the overall loss was calculated, which follows the guidance. It was calculated that 
Mr M would have paid off approximately £50,000 off the mortgage if hed had a repayment 
mortgage and from this the value of the ISA was deducted. This resulted in a loss of 
approximately £3,000, which ReAssure offered Mr M.
Overall, I am satisfied that the loss calculation was done using an appropriate method and 
the offer made was what it should have been.  
Mr M has raised a concern that if he accepted the offer and paid that amount and the ISA 
surrender value off the mortgage, he would still owe around £20,000, which would have to 
be paid over the remaining term of approximately five years. This may seem a significant 
amount to still owe on the mortgage when 80% of the term has elapsed. However, in the 
early years of a repayment mortgage, most of the monthly payments are made up of 
interest. As the term progresses, slightly more of the payments represent capital reductions, 
but the majority of the capital is paid off in the later years of the term. 
As such, I am satisfied that the offer ReAssure made Mr M was sufficient to place his 
mortgage in the appropriate financial position.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
30 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman