DRN-2730248
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined to reimburse him for 
holiday accommodation that hed paid for via his credit card but which he subsequently didnt 
use.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr L travelled abroad for a short break. He intended to book his 
accommodation on arrival. Mr L says when he arrived it was around 11.00pm and he used 
an online booking company to reserve a three-night stay in a guesthouse. He used his credit 
card with Nationwide to pay for his booking.
Mr L received confirmation of his booking and this advised that an entry code was required 
to access the premises as the accommodation wasnt a hotel with a reception desk. The 
confirmation email said that Mr L should contact the accommodation owner via a messaging 
app and set out the number to use.
Mr L didnt use the messaging app as he said this form of contact wasnt included in the 
booking website. He had only been asked to provide his email and, as a secondary contact 
method, a mobile number. Mr L says that he didnt receive the necessary door entry code 
and so after half an hour decided to book alternative accommodation.
Mr L travelled to the second place hed booked and checked-in. He says he tried to cancel 
the first booking but received no reply. The following day Mr L says he received an email 
from the first accommodation setting out details of how to book-in. He said this was now too 
late as hed found and paid for an alternative place to stay.
Mr L contacted Nationwide and requested that he was refunded the cost of the first 
accommodation that hed booked as he hadnt been able to use it. 
Nationwide investigated Mr Ls claim firstly under the chargeback scheme and then under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Nationwide declined to reimburse Mr L the cost of the first accommodation under the 
chargeback scheme as it said the accommodation had been available for him to use. It also 
declined to uphold a claim under section 75 as it said the debtor-creditor-supplier chain had 
been broken. This was because Mr L had booked the accommodation through an online 
company who had only dealt with reserving the accommodation and had then passed the 
cost of the service on to the supplier. So, the online company hadnt been the actual provider 
of the service.
Mr L disagreed with Nationwides decision and made a complaint. Nationwide reviewed its 
decision but said that it had handled his claim fairly.
Mr L complained to this service. He was unhappy he had been double-charged for 
accommodation. He didnt think the accommodation should have been advertised as 
available late at night when the entry code wasnt then provided in a timely manner. He said 
the use of the messaging app wasnt part of the booking process nor did it appear in the 
terms and conditions. He queried why his claim had to be considered under section 75. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She said that there 
were only two potential remedies for Mr L to receive a reimbursement for the 
accommodation costs, these were via a chargeback claim or via a section 75 claim.
Our investigator said that the chargeback scheme is voluntary so Nationwide dont have to 
consider this, but here it had, which she thought was fair. The online booking company had 
defended the claim and said the accommodation had been booked and was available for 
him to use. The investigator said she thought that Nationwides decision not to reimburse Mr 
L under this scheme had been fair in the circumstances.
Our investigator said that, in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 gives a consumer an equal right to claim a refund against the supplier of goods or 
services and the provider of credit, if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by the supplier. She said, that here, the service that had been provided by the 
online booking company was to reserve the accommodation selected by Mr L which it had. 
The terms and conditions that Mr L had agreed to when using the online company included 
that it wasnt responsible for the way accommodation was described on its website.
Our investigator said the online company had done what it had agreed to do for Mr L, which 
was book the accommodation and take the payment to pass on to the provider. She said 
there wasnt any breach of contract nor was there any misrepresentation and Nationwides 
decision not to uphold Mr Ls claim had been fair.
Mr L disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said he didnt accept the booking hadnt 
been fraudulent, that he had been unable to establish contact with the accommodation 
provider and the door code had been sent too late for the accommodation to have been 
available for him to use.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr L doesnt think its fair his claim for reimbursement is looked at under section 
75 and/or the chargeback scheme but these are the two remedies that are available if there 
is a problem with the supply of goods and/or services and credit has been used to purchase 
those goods and/or services. These are also regulated activities which means that this 
service is able to consider whether a credit provider has acted fairly when handling a claim 
under these provisions. 
However, here I cant look at the actions of the accommodation provider because under 
section 75 there has been a break in the debtor-creditor-supplier chain. Mr Ls contract was 
with the online booking company to book the accommodation and forward the payment not 
directly with the accommodation provider.  So, what I need to decide is whether the online 
booking company did something wrong that would amount to either a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation.
Mr L booked the accommodation late at night, he says he was aware it wasnt a hotel though 
I dont think he was aware at the time of booking that an entry code was going to be required 
to access the property. However, I dont think I can reasonably say that the online booking company was at fault. In its terms and conditions, the company are clear that the advertising 
material and details for the accommodation arent its responsibility. 
Looking at the evidence that has been provided, Ive seen that the online booking company 
confirmed Mr Ls reservation via email. This email also advised that to obtain information as 
to how to collect the keys that contact should be made via a messaging app. Mr L didnt 
make contact via this medium and waited instead for contact to be made with him via email. 
It appears that email contact wasnt made until the following morning by which time Mr L had 
arranged alternative accommodation.
Mr L didnt attend the accommodation and instead booked a second place to stay. I think this 
was his choice. The online booking company says that Mr L accepted the cancellation policy 
at the time of finalising his payment which set out that the total price of the reservation 
would be charged at least 30 days prior to arrival and that in the event of a no show the 
total price of the reservation will be charged. I think its reasonable to have expected Mr L to 
have read through the terms and conditions before he made payment so he should have 
been aware that full payment was due as the time he booked and there was no right to a 
refund if he didnt turn up as booked.
Mr L has raised that he thinks the booking was fraudulent, but I havent seen any evidence 
that Mr L wasnt booked in and expected at the first accommodation. He received a 
confirmation email and later had contact from the accommodation provider, so I think its 
reasonable to say the online booking company had reserved the chosen accommodation for 
the nights requested by Mr L and had forwarded his payment.
Ive seen that the online booking company defended the chargeback claim. It set out its role, 
the applicable terms and conditions, and that the accommodation had been booked and the 
payment forwarded. I am satisfied that its more likely than not the accommodation was 
available to Mr L as he was provided with the confirmation email and clear instructions about 
making contact. I think, looking at the evidence supplied by Mr L for his claim, that 
Nationwide acted reasonably in finding the online booking companys challenge successful 
and that there were no grounds for referring the matter on for arbitration. 
Nationwide then went on to look at whether a claim under section 75 would be applicable. 
However, the online booking company had done what it had agreed to do, that is reserve 
accommodation and forward the payment. I cant reasonably say there was a breach of 
contract or any misrepresentation. 
For the reasons set out above Im not intending to uphold Mr Ls complaint as I think 
Nationwide has handled his claim for reimbursement under section 75 and chargeback fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 05 May 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman