DRN-4123335
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the money 
she lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In 2018, Mrs H made two £10,000 bank transfers to a business run by an acquaintance of 
hers  a regular customer at her own business. For several months, she received payments 
in return of over £2,000 per month. These repayments ceased, and Mrs H reported the 
matter to Halifax as a scam.
Mrs H explained that the acquaintance had persuaded her to invest in his property business, 
having shown her examples of properties hed worked on. She said he promised unrealistic 
returns, gave her no documentation, and later disappeared.
It later emerged that Mrs H had paid the money as a loan, under a loan agreement which 
both she and the acquaintance had signed. The acquaintances business ran into financial 
difficulties and was wound up due to insolvency.
Halifax tried to recover the money, but no funds remained. Halifax didnt think they were 
liable for Mrs Hs loss. They thought this was a civil dispute between Mrs H and her 
acquaintance.
Our investigator looked into things independently and agreed this was most likely what wed 
consider a civil dispute rather than a scam. And they clarified that even if they agreed it was 
a scam, they didnt think Halifax had grounds to intervene at the time.
Mrs Hs representatives asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mrs H authorised the payments involved. So under the Payment 
Services Regulations she is liable for the loss in the first instance. And broadly speaking, 
Halifax were obliged to follow her instructions  the starting position in law is that banks are 
expected to process payments that a customer authorises them to make. Though this matter 
does not end there.
Ive thought carefully about whether this was an incident Id consider to be a scam  an 
intentional attempt to defraud Mrs H  or a civil dispute between her and her acquaintance. 
Of course, I cannot know for certain what was in the mind of the acquaintance or what his 
true intentions were. I can only look at what the available evidence tells me.
I acknowledge that the acquaintance cut contact, that his bank received one other claim that 
his business didnt pay due returns, and that he faced investigation for other matters such as 
not getting the right licence for a property.
However, the acquaintances company was a genuine registered property business, which 
had been trading for about a decade and a half. The person Mrs H paid was someone shed 
known in person for a while. They paid her significant amounts in return for some time  
more than 10% of her initial investment each month for four months, plus a further interest 
payment, meaning she got nearly 45% of her initial outlay back in six months  which would 
be rather unusual if this was an intentional attempt to defraud her. Fraudsters do sometimes 
give initial returns to encourage their victim to pay them further money, but these were 
substantial repayments and I cant see that there was any attempt to leverage these 
repayments to get more money from Mrs H. It looks like the acquaintance was genuinely 
repaying her while his business still could. Ive not found any scam warnings about this 
business from official sources, and its bank account was closed due to non-repayment of 
debts rather than for fraud. It looks like the business ran out of money and was forced to 
dissolve, which would explain why it stopped making its loan repayments. And I certainly 
dont think this was an investment scam, given that Mrs H does not appear to have invested 
 she gave the money as a loan, which was set out clearly in the documentation she signed.
Mrs Hs representatives pointed out that the business was not FCA-regulated. But I cant see 
that it was carrying out any activities that needed to be regulated by the FCA. They said that 
the acquaintance had offered unrealistic returns  but again, this was not an investment, it 
was a loan. They pointed out that the company changed its stated purpose a few times, but 
that doesnt seem particularly surprising given how long it was running for, nor do the 
changes seem indicative of fraud. They also pointed out that the business had been overdue 
with some documents, but thats not particularly remarkable or indicative of a scam either (as 
opposed to, say, poor administration) nor especially surprising for a failing business.
Overall, I dont think the evidence substantially supports that the acquaintance intentionally 
defrauded Mrs H. It looks like Mrs H lent money to an acquaintances business, and that 
business became unable to repay its debts. I appreciate this must have been a very difficult 
situation for Mrs H to face. But Im afraid I would consider this to be a civil dispute between 
her and her acquaintance, rather than a scam. 
With that said, even if I accept that this was a scam, I do not find that Halifax are responsible 
for the loss in these circumstances. Ill explain why.
Halifax shouldve been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments.Here, I dont think the payments involved were so unusual or out of character that Halifax 
needed to intervene. While they were certainly large payments, they were funded from 
Mrs Hs savings, and its not unusual for customers to occasionally make very large 
payments using their savings  indeed, thats a rather usual way to use savings. The 
payments did not drain Mrs Hs current account  the remaining balance was the same as 
before this incident  nor her savings account, which still had a very significant balance 
afterwards. Mrs H had made a number of sizeable bank transfers in the months before this 
incident, so while these payments were larger than others, Id not consider them to be so out 
of character for her that Id expect Halifax to intervene. Further, these were only two 
payments made on different days, rather than a series of rapid ones, they went to a UK 
account of a long-standing registered business, and they were authorised by the genuine 
customer. Overall, Im afraid I do not see that Halifax had sufficient reasons to intervene in 
this particular case.
Lastly, Ive looked at what Halifax did to try to recover Mrs Hs funds after she told them this 
was a scam. I can see that they appropriately contacted the receiving bank to try to get her 
money back. But by the time the repayments had stopped and Mrs H reported the matter, no 
funds remained. So by that point, it wasnt possible for Halifax to get her money back.
I do sympathise with the fact that Mrs H is out of pocket for a very significant amount. And 
I realise that this decision will come as a disappointment to her, though it is not my intention 
to disappoint her. But for the reasons I explained above, I cannot fairly hold Halifax liable for 
her losses in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman