DRN-3103351
The complaint
Mr T complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin) has turned down a
cancellation claim he made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr T took out an annual multi-trip Sports Travel Insurance policy, which was
underwritten by Catlin. On 5 February 2020, Mr T booked a package holiday to a country Ill
call S for himself and his son. He booked the trip through a provider Ill call P and the
booking included Mr Ts flights; accommodation at a specialist sporting hotel and car hire.
He paid a deposit of £500, with the balance due on 22 March 2020. Mr T was due to travel to
S on 14 June 2020 and return to the UK on 21 June 2020.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 10 March 2020, the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel to S. Mr T wasnt able
to reschedule his trip with the provider and so he cancelled it before the balance was due.
He made a claim on his travel insurance policy on 16 March 2020 for his lost deposit costs.
Catlin turned down the claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover the
circumstances of Mr Ts claim.
Mr T was unhappy with Catlins decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She accepted that the
cancellation section of the policy didnt cover cancellation due to a change in FCO advice.
But she noted that the policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled
against FCO advice. This meant Mr T wouldnt have been covered if he cancelled and he
wouldnt be covered if he travelled. She didnt think the policy terms made the combined
effect of these terms clear. And she considered that if Mr T had been aware that he wouldnt
be covered if FCO guidance changed before he travelled, he wouldve been unlikely to take
out the policy. Ultimately, she felt it would be fair for Catlin to assess Mr Ts claim in line with
the terms and conditions of the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I felt it was fair for Catlin to turn down Mr Ts claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Ts policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether Catlin treated Mr
T fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy, as these form the basis of his
contract with Catlin. The cancellation section of the policy provides the following cover:
WHAT IS COVERED
We will pay You the following expenses incurred as the result of any of the specified
occurrences in paragraphs a) to c) below up to the sum insured shown in the Schedule of
Benefits Table in respect of irrecoverable loss of unused travel and accommodation
expenses paid in advance or for which there is a contractual ability consequent upon the
cancellation or curtailment of the pre-arranged Trip or, if the Trip is not cancelled,
Specified occurrences:
a)Your death or sustaining an Injury or becoming seriously ill.
b) the death. Injury or serious illness of Your Relative, partner, fiance(e), business colleague
or any person with whom You had arranged to travel.
c)You or any person with whom You had arranged to travel being:
(i)quarantined or called for witness or jury service.
(ii) made redundant, provided that such redundancy qualifies for payment under the United
Kingdom's Redundancy Payments Acts.
(ill) called for emergency duty as a member of the armed forces, the defence or civil
administration, the police force, or the fire, rescue, public utility or medical services.
(iv) required to be present at Your home or place of business in Your Country of Residence
following a burglary or major damage caused by storm, flood or fire within ten days of
departure. (Bold is my emphasis).
Mr Ts contract also sets out a list of general exclusions. One of these says that Catlin wont
cover claims if a policyholder travels against FCO advice. In this case, theres no dispute
that Mr T chose to cancel his trip because the FCO had advised against all but essential
travel to S. This isnt something listed as an insured event Catlin covers for cancellation.
So I accept that there seems to be no cover if Mr T chose to cancel his trip, but no cover at
all under the policy if he travelled as planned. 
Like the investigator, Im not persuaded the exclusion was clearly highlighted to Mr T. And I 
dont think the policy documents were clear enough to signpost Mr T to this important 
information about the way the policy worked. So in some cases, Id likely decide that this had 
led to a significant imbalance between the rights of a consumer and Catlin under the contract 
and uphold a complaint.
However, on the facts of this particular case, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to
direct Catlin to reassess Mr Ts claim. Ill explore this further.
I think the policy terms make it clear that Catlin will only pay cancellation claims where a
policyholder cant recover their costs from elsewhere. It seems to me that Mr Ts holiday was
booked as a package holiday through P. Generally, a package holiday would be considered
to be a holiday contract that includes two or more travel services, which are combined for the
purposes of the same trip. The travel provider is liable for the performance of these services.
Ive looked closely at the booking invoice P provided Mr T. I can see that he booked the
flights; accommodation and car hire through P. So I think the trip could be fairly treated as a
package holiday.
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) provide
protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say that the travel
provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which cant be provided.
I accept that Mr T cancelled his holiday before paying the main balance and that P wasnt in
a position to fulfil the terms of the booking contract. However, at the point Mr T was due to
travel, on 14 June 2020, the FCO was still advising against all but essential travel abroad.
And I think this means that Mr Ts package holiday through P would likely have had to have
been cancelled by the relevant travel providers and the booking contract couldnt have been
fulfilled. If this had been the case, P wouldve been liable under the PTR to refund all of the
money Mr T had paid for his trip, including both the deposit and the balance. This means his
losses wouldve been legally recoverable from P and there wouldve been no costs to claim
on his travel insurance policy.As Mr T chose to cancel his trip in March 2020 though, without paying the balance, I think he
prejudiced Catlins position. While I can understand why Mr T chose to cancel the trip when
he did, I dont think it would be fair here for me to require Catlin to step away from a strict
interpretation of the policy terms. Instead, on the facts of this case, I think by choosing to
cancel the holiday in March 2020, Mr T put Catlin in a worse position than it would otherwise
have been than if hed paid the balance and been entitled to a refund under the PTR. And on
this basis, I currently think it was fair for Catlin to turn down his claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Catlin didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr T disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised his response. He said that 
in simple terms, his complaint had been about Catlins failure to abide by the terms of the 
insurance policy. He considered that the quarantine provision Ive set out above applied to 
his claim. He felt that if the policy didnt provide cancellation cover if a policyholder travelled 
against FCO advice, then the policy terms were all in favour of Catlin and in essence, there 
was no cancellation cover at all. He mentioned that Id agreed with the investigators findings 
relating to the failure to highlight the FCO exclusion but had then considered Ps booking 
confirmation and the PTR. 
He stated that he hadnt been aware of the PTR and asked where in the policy it referred to 
them. He felt the complaint was about the policy terms, not the regulations or the booking. 
And while it was possible that if hed delayed cancellation, the costs wouldve been 
refunded, his complaint is based on the available facts at the time. He queried how his 
actions had prejudiced Catlins position. He hadnt seen an indication that there would be a 
review of the policy terms or that there would be an industry-wide review of the cover 
provided by travel policies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, I still think it was fair for Catlin to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
First, I need to make clear our role. Were not the industry regulator and so we have no 
power to carry out industry-wide reviews of financial products. Were also not a court. Our 
role is to consider individual complaints brought by consumers to decide whether a financial 
business has done something wrong and if so, whether it needs to take action to put things 
right. 
Its also important I explain that in deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive carefully 
considered the terms of Mr Ts policy. But Ive also taken account of the relevant law, as well 
as other considerations, such as the regulators rules, the wider circumstances of the claim 
and good industry practice. 
I set out that I didnt think Catlin had clearly and transparently signposted Mr T to the policy 
provisions relating to claims for changes in FCO advice and/or claims for travelling against 
FCO advice. And so I said that in some cases, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. But I still dont think 
thats the case here.As I explained, the cancellation section of the policy clearly states that Catlin will only meet 
irrecoverable losses. This means that Catlin would generally expect a policyholder to be 
able to show that they hadnt been able to recover their cancellation costs from any other 
source  including travel providers. I accept Mr T wasnt aware of the PTR. But given the fact 
his holiday had been booked as a package, these regulations wouldve applied to his 
booking with P. At the point Mr T was due to travel, the FCO was still advising against all but 
essential travel abroad. So I think its more likely than not that P wouldve had to cancel Mr 
Ts trip and it would therefore have most likely been liable to refund all of Mr Ts costs under 
the PTR. As such, Mr T wouldve most likely been able to recover all of his costs from P.
I appreciate Mr T feels my decision is subjective. But I need to make a decision based on 
what I think is most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. And on balance, 
as Ive said, Im persuaded that if Mr T had paid the balance of his holiday, its most likely P 
wouldve had to cancel the trip due to the prevailing FCO advice on 14 June 2020. As this 
was a package holiday, P would, on balance, have been liable under the PTR for Mr Ts full 
cancellation costs. This means then that Catlin wouldnt have had any losses to cover.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I entirely understand why Mr T cancelled his trip 
when he did. But his claim simply isnt covered by the policy terms. The irrecoverable losses 
requirement would still apply, even if Id concluded Mr T had been effectively quarantined at 
the point he was due to travel. And I dont think, for the reasons Ive mentioned above, it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to direct Catlin to step away from a strict interpretation 
of the policy in the circumstances of this case. 
So despite my sympathy with Mr Ts position, I find, overall, that it was fair for Catlin to turn 
down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman