DRN-1902368
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about the amount of compensation TSB Bank Plc has offered him because 
his telephone banking facility was cancelled in error.
What happened
Mr B phoned TSB to make an International Money Transfer in US dollars through telephone 
banking. This was to avoid being charged a higher fee if he paid using a debit card. TSB told 
Mr B that his telephone banking had been cancelled in error. He therefore made the 
payment via his debit card and paid the higher fee.
Mr B complained to TSB about his telephone banking being cancelled. TSB upheld the 
complaint and offered him £150 compensation - £100 for the distress and inconvenience and 
£50 to cover any expenses such as for phone calls. Mr B then asked TSB to cover the fee 
he paid for using his debit card. However, several months later, Mr B hadnt received a 
response.
Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint about the 
higher fee, as she concluded that there were other options available to Mr B in order to 
transfer the money that wouldnt have incurred that fee. However, she said that TSB should 
pay Mr B an additional £100 because it hadnt responded to Mr Bs further issues related to 
the fee for more than six months.
TSB didnt think that it was within this services remit to comment on its complaint handling 
and award compensation on that basis, so the complaint has been referred to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 12 May 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Its not in dispute that TSB cancelled Mr Bs telephone banking facility. This was due to a 
system error when TSB moved to a new IT system. I therefore need to look at the impact on 
Mr B and whether TSB has appropriately compensated him for what happened.
Mr B wanted to make a payment to a company in the USA. The company he was paying the 
money to told him that if he wired the money, he would need to pay a $50 fee. In this case, 
wiring appears to refer to making a SWIFT payment. As Mr B couldnt make the payment 
via telephone banking, he paid using his debit card, as he said it was the only option 
available to him.
The SWIFT system is a secure messaging system that allows banks to instruct each other 
about payments and accounts they hold. TSB will send payments in a foreign currency 
between 7.30am and 4.30pm. From 4.30pm to 7.30am, it will only send the payment in 
sterling. It takes up to four working days for the payment to reach the recipient. SWIFT 
payments can be made through telephone banking, online or in a branch.
Mr B needed to make the payment in US dollars and he wanted the payment to be made 
that day because he was concerned about potential changes in the exchange rate the following day. However, Mr B phoned after 4.30pm, so even if his telephone banking had 
been working, he still wouldnt have been able to make the payment through TSB, as he 
couldnt do so in US dollars. Mr B didnt make the payment that day.
Ive listened to the phone call in which Mr B was told that his telephone banking was 
cancelled. During that call he was told that he could make his payment online or in a branch. 
However, I am aware that Mr B said that he couldnt go to a branch the next day. The 
company that Mr B was dealing with also said that he could pay by cheque. However, he 
told the company that he didnt want the hassle of using cheques.
Nonetheless, Mr B could have made the payment online or in a branch in US dollars the next 
day or sent the payment by cheque. On that basis, I am satisfied that there were options to 
make a SWIFT payment available to Mr B that meant he didnt have to pay on his debit card. 
I am therefore also satisfied that TSB is not responsible for any additional fees charged by 
using his debit card.
Mr B said that TSB told him that it couldnt resolve the telephone banking issue, so he 
should make the payment via his debit card and that it would be responsible for the fee as it 
was TSBs fault. I have listened to a range of phone calls to see what TSB said to Mr B. The 
only call recording available for March 2019 is the one referred to above. The other call 
recordings from March 2019 arent available. I have read TSBs contact notes for those calls, 
but Im aware that Mr B doesnt think these are an accurate record of what was discussed. I 
have also listened to a range of phone calls from April 2019 to July 2019 in which Mr B 
chased the lack of response to his request for his expenses to be paid.
Ive thought about Mr Bs concerns about the contact notes. Ive compared the relevant 
contact notes with the phone calls that I have been able to listen to, and while they vary in 
the level of detail, they seem to be factual accounts of what I heard. Im therefore of the view 
that the call notes generally accurately represent what was discussed in the phone calls.
In the contact notes for one of the March calls that I wasnt able to listen to it says I advised 
customer that, as he is unable to visit his local branch, the payment can only be made today 
via IB [internet banking]. Customer advised that the company may charge more if he makes 
the payment via IB I advised that we would look to cover the consequential losses. Customer 
is sending evidence of how much payment would have cost him if he made it over TB 
[telephone banking].
I have thought about this. The March call quoted above was the third that Mr B had with the 
same person from TSB that day. The details of the call make sense in the context of the 
calls earlier in the day. Those conversations were about Mr Bs telephone banking still not 
working and discussing the other options available via TSB of going to a branch or using 
internet banking. The call handler also confirmed that if Mr B used internet banking he would 
be able to pay in US dollars. On that basis, and my view on the general accuracy of the 
contact notes, I think the call notes quoted above are more likely than not to accurately 
summarise what was discussed with Mr B and that this was about using internet banking, 
rather than if Mr B used his debit card.
I also listened to a phone call that took place on 2 April 2019. In that call, the call handler 
said to Mr B There are some sort of outstanding expenses that we do need to pay you, I 
believe, but Ill allow the complaint handler to make that decision once hes received the 
information. 
Thinking about the April 2019 phone call, I can see why Mr B might have taken that to mean 
that his expenses would be paid and that this would have built up his expectations. However, 
the call handler didnt commit to this and said it was for the complaint handler to make the decision based on any information sent by Mr B. In the other phone calls that I listened to, 
the call handlers didnt comment on the expenses. On that basis, I am satisfied that TSB 
didnt commit to paying the fee for using a debit card.
Im also aware that there has been some confusion about what Mr B was charged for paying 
with a debit card. The company sent Mr B an invoice for a service fee. The invoice was 
dated a year before the other events in this case. The company also seems to have debited 
a lower amount from Mr Bs account, although it isnt clear why. It also isnt clear what the 
service fee was for as the invoice doesnt provide a description. Ive thought about this and, 
although I can understand that Mr B thinks the fee was because he used his debit card, I 
dont think there is evidence that clearly shows this was the case.
I have also looked at the level of compensation that Mr B was given by TSB because his 
telephone banking was cancelled. It gave him £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and to cover expenses. I also asked TSB what the outcome was for Mr Bs complaint 
about the debit card fee and it told me was that it didnt think it should be considered as 
responsible for the service fee, as it wasnt clear what it was for. 
Thinking about this, and all of the above, I dont intend to ask TSB to pay anything further, as 
I think the amount of compensation offered was reasonable in the circumstances. TSB 
accepted that it made a mistake when it cancelled the telephone banking facility and 
explained alternative ways that Mr B could make the payment through TSB. The amount 
offered is in line with what this service would award in such cases. I am aware that TSB said 
it would consider paying additional expenses as a result of cancelling the telephone banking 
facility, but I havent seen any evidence that TSB agreed to refund Mr B for using his debit 
card and it also isnt clear that Mr B was charged a fee for using it.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 11 June 2020. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr B said that he was unhappy about the interpretation of the facts about the complaint and 
that anecdotal evidence from him had not been accepted. He also said that TSB not having 
some of the phone recordings was its own fault and shouldnt be a determining factor in his 
case.
TSB said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I havent seen anything that would change 
my thinking in relation to Mr Bs complaint. I remain of the view that TSB doesnt need to do 
anything further and that the compensation already offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman