DRN-4009024
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited gave him incorrect 
information about his legal expenses insurance policy which delayed his claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C hold a home insurance policy. Mr C contacted the insurer, Lloyds, to make a 
claim for legal expenses to pursue an employment dispute. But as Lloyds dont underwrite 
this section of the policy, it redirected him to another insurer.
Mr C says he was redirected to a claims handler  who Ill refer to as A  but A said they 
were the wrong company. They passed Mr Cs claim to another insurer / claims handler  
who Ill refer to as B. Mr C complains that this delay caused an impact to his employment 
dispute which was subjected to short court deadlines. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Shed been provided with copies of Lloyds 
contact notes which showed that it referred Mr C to B who were the correct insurers for the 
claim  so she didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr C disagreed. He says his policy was with A at the time, so he believed it was them. He 
says Lloyds shouldve made him aware that it wasnt. As Mr C disagrees, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The legal expenses section of Mr Cs policy has changed underwriters. It was initially 
underwritten by B, who managed their own claims. And it was later transferred to another 
insurer who outsource their claim handling to A. 
Ive been provided with a copy of Lloyds contact notes which show the following contact from 
Mr C:
22 Jan 2021
[Mr C] called wanted to know about legal expenses and possible claim. Give number 
and transferred to [B]
22 Nov 2021
[Mr C] called regarding renewal & legal expenses cover - ind1 applied, advised new 
premium/monthly payments which [Mr C] accepted. [Mr C] not interested in BHP AQ. 
Advised what legal cover entails. Docs advised.
9 May 2022
[Mr C] called advising he wanted to make a complaint in regards to [B] and an 
employment issue he has. Called [B] and transferred customer through to [an 
advisor]
I cant see that Lloyds referred Mr C to A for his claim, rather it told him to contact B  which 
was correct. 
Mr C says he looked at his policy documents at the time and it said to make his claim to A. 
Whilst that may be the case  as the policy had transferred by that time  I cant fairly hold 
Lloyds responsible for that when it had already told Mr C to contact B. Its not clear when he 
thinks Lloyds shouldve made him aware, given that it had already told him and transferred 
his call. And Lloyds wouldnt have been aware that Mr C had submitted his claim to A unless 
he informed it of this  which I cant see that he did. 
As such, I cant agree that Lloyds gave incorrect information about the policy that delayed 
Mr Cs claim. So I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman