DRN-3297276
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd unfairly closed his account and believes that he was 
discriminated against.
What happened
Mr C opened a new account with Monzo and received several payments into it, all from 
different accounts. Monzo received information about one of the accounts that the funds 
were the result of fraud. Monzo reviewed the account and informed Mr C that it was to be 
closed.
Monzo registered a marker about Mr C with CIFAS - a fraud prevention agency. Mr C was 
unhappy with the decision to close his account and complained to Monzo about its closure 
and the registration of a marker with CIFAS. Mr C also believed he was discriminated 
against by Monzo. Monzo looked into the complaint and didnt change their position.
Mr C brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an independent review where it 
was looked into by one of our investigators. Both parties were asked for information and Mr 
C explained that the money in his account was as the result of being involved with another 
person who was helping Mr C invest in crypto currency. Mr C didnt know the people whod 
sent him funds, but he believed it was all linked to the crypto investing. Mr C sent in 
screenshots of messages with this person.
Monzo supplied evidence that some of the funds received by Mr C were the result of fraud 
and believed that the operation of the account, which had only been open for about a week, 
was indicative of suspicious activity. Monzo denied discriminating against Mr C.
Our investigator thought overall that Mr C was an innocent party in the movement of these 
funds, but thought it was reasonable for Monzo to close the account. Our investigator didnt 
find any evidence of discrimination. Monzo were asked to remove the marker with CIFAS 
and pay £200 to Mr C.
Monzo agreed to remove the marker and pay Mr C £200. Mr C accepted the outcome, the 
marker was removed, and the payment made shortly after.
A few months later, Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman 
because he believed hed been discriminated against. Mr C also believed the CIFAS marker 
hadnt been removed and this was preventing him from opening accounts and the cause of 
other accounts being closed. Mr Cs complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr C accepted the original outcome, he asked for a further review because he believed 
the actions against him were caused by discrimination. Mr C believes its his non - English 
sounding surname that caused Monzo to act differently towards him. 
Race  which includes nationality and ethnic or national origins is a protected characteristic 
within the Equality Act 2010. Alleged breaches of the Act are a matter for the courts to 
determine  and so I cannot make a finding on whether or not Monzo has acted unlawfully in 
discriminating against Mr C on the basis of a protected characteristic. But I can consider 
whether Mr C was treated in a fair and reasonable manner and whether I think he was 
treated differently to other customers.
Monzo received a report from another bank that funds received into his account were from a 
fraudulent source. The account had been open about a week and had received several 
transfers from different accounts. Those funds had been immediately transferred by Mr C to 
either a crypto currency merchant or another account belonging to Mr C. Monzo reviewed 
the operation of the account and noted characteristics about it that led them to believe Mr C 
was involved in the movement of fraudulent funds.
In order to lodge a marker with CIFAS, Monzo had to meet specific standards. The relevant 
ones are that there was evidence of fraud and they had sufficient information with which they 
could confidently report the matter to the police.
Having examined Monzos evidence and the assessment they made at the time, I think they 
met both of these requirements and it was reasonable for them to lodge the marker against 
Mr C. Monzo later agreed that theyd remove it based on the opinion of our investigator, who 
thought Mr C was an innocent victim.
Ive not found any evidence that Monzo made their decision based on anything other than
the activity on Mr Cs account. And its consistent with how theyve responded to similar
concerns elsewhere, so Im satisfied that theyve not treated Mr C any differently than they
would any other customer.
Account closure 
Both Mr C and Monzo can choose to end their relationship with each other. The process is
laid out in the terms and conditions that Mr C agreed to when he opened the account. In this
case, Monzo issued an immediate closure notice, which is permitted within the terms of the 
account if Monzo believe Mr C broke or attempted to break the law. From the evidence Ive 
examined, I think Monzos decision to immediately end their relationship with Mr C was a 
reasonable one.
CIFAS Removal
Mr C believed the marker wasnt removed from CIFAS, so I specifically requested Monzo to 
tell me when it was done. They confirmed it was removed at the same time the payment of 
£200 was paid to him in August 2021. Monzo have since checked with CIFAS and couldnt 
see any marker related to Mr C. Although I appreciate Mr C believed the marker was still 
causing him problems  the evidence indicates it was removed some time ago.
Monzo paid Mr C £200 based on the recommendation of our investigator, which Mr C 
accepted at the time. I think the removal of the marker and the payment of £200 was a 
reasonable way for Monzo to deal with Mr Cs complaint and I wont be asking them to do 
anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman