DRN-1569418
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc has refused to give them back some money 
they lost from their joint current account as part of a scam .
What happened
In April 2019 Mr Cs debit card was used to make a £10,000 online payment to a money 
transfer company, which then converted the money into euros and sent it on to a third party. 
Mr C says he didnt make the payment himself, but it occurred around the same time he 
received a suspicious phone call  during which the caller disclosed a significant amount of 
information about him, his HSBC account and HSBC debit card  and emails from the 
money transfer company.
Mr C called HSBC the following day to express his concerns about the phone call and 
emails. The bank cancelled Mr Cs debit card as a result but the £10,000 payment was not 
discussed. At that point the payment had already been authorised, but it had not yet left the 
account.
Mr and Mrs C think HSBC should have prevented the payment from going through and want 
the bank to refund it. Our investigator thought the same. But HSBC disagreed, saying Mr C 
authorised the payment and there was nothing about it that should have triggered the banks 
fraud detection systems and/or prevented the payment going through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator did, for much the same 
reasons and which Ive summarised below.
HSBC says Mr C authorised the payment, but he disputes this. The evidence we hold about 
the suspicious phone call and the disputed payment suggests to me that Mr C either made 
the payment himself or provided a third party with sufficient information about his debit card 
to enable them to do so. I cant be sure exactly what happened, so must base my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  so what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
In this case I think its more likely than not Mr C was the victim of a sophisticated scam. He 
couldnt remember exactly what was discussed with the fraudster when the bank asked him 
questions about their call within a couple of days of it taking place  he told the bank he was 
in his 80s and gets confused easily.  But he recalled being kept for over two hours on the 
phone to someone claiming to be from an investment company with which hed previously 
had dealings, which already held a considerable amount of information about him and which 
was claiming it wanted to pay him a large sum of money. I think its likely the fraudster used 
intimidation tactics and played on Mr Cs vulnerabilities in order to persuade him to either 
make the payment himself or give the fraudster remote access to his computer and debit 
card details. 
When a payment is authorised by the account holder (directly or indirectly), under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of the account, they are 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. But the bank also had some responsibilities.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
HSBC says the disputed payment in this case didnt trigger its fraud detection system which 
 it says  do not look out for unusual or out of character transactions. But, as I say, I 
consider it was good practice to do so at the time this disputed transaction occurred.  I also 
note the banks fraud team told Mr C during one phone call that it did look out for unusual or 
suspicious transactions.
With the above in mind, and having considered the way the account was used historically, I 
do think a £10,000 online debit card payment to a money transfer company was unusual and 
out of character for Mr C. I say that also with the knowledge it left his account over £8,000 
overdrawn  a considerable amount even when Mr Cs regular income is taken into account. 
Its not even entirely clear to me why Mr C had such a large overdraft limit given the way he 
used his account in the preceding months or whether this amount was sustainably 
affordable.  
Im also conscious its fairly well known that money transfer companies are often used as 
vehicles for fraud  the banks staff actually discussed this, to an extent, in one of the call 
recordings it has provided.  So Ive taken that into account as well when considering the 
overall circumstances of this case.
Ive considered carefully whether Mr C should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. But it seems clear that up to and including the time of authorising 
the payment, he didnt understand what was going on or the consequences of his actions. I 
say that, not least, because during the discussion with the bank when he first told them 
about the suspicious phone call he explained the caller knew a lot about him, his account 
and his debit card and was trying to tease out information and confuse him.  He didnt 
mention the £10,000 payment at that point despite it having already been authorised and 
was only concerned that his debit card might be misused.  Mr C then he got in touch again 
the next day after the disputed transaction had actually debited his account and still didnt 
understand how this had happened.  Im satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, Mr C was simply the 
unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. And, given what we know about how the 
scam unfolded, specifically that Mr C didnt intend on making a payment to anyone, I think if 
the bank had taken additional steps or made additional checks before authorising this 
payment it could have helped Mr C identify the scam he had fallen victim to. That 
intervention would likely have prevented him and his wife from losing this money.  
In the circumstances I think HSBC should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr and Mrs C for 
the loss they suffered from their joint current account, without any reduction. Interest should 
also be paid to compensate them for the overdraft charges and fees they incurred and for 
being deprived of the money thats been used to repay the overdraft debt. Calculating 
interest at 8% simple per year will, I think, provide sufficient compensation overall.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Refund the £10,000 disputed transaction which left the account on 24 April 2019.
Pay 8% simple per year interest to the above amount, calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest award, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman