DRN-4341646
The complaint
Mr T has complained Starling Bank Limited wont refund him more than £2,913 for seven 
transactions which he didnt authorise.
What happened
In November 2022 Mr T was abroad. He went out to a bar and bought some drinks during 
the evening. Mr T spent some time there and used his Starling debit card to pay for his 
transactions. Just before this, Mr T had lost his phone.
The bar was having difficulty in processing his payments and told him they kept being 
declined. Mr T ended up having to verify a number of different transactions during his time 
there. The position of the card terminal meant it was difficult for him to be sure exactly what 
amount he was paying.
In the morning Mr T realised the number of transactions that had been processed and what 
this had cost him  over £2,913. As he didnt believe this mirrored what hed have expected 
to pay, he got in touch with the bar over social media. He was supplied with receipts to 
reflect what the bar said hed spent but Mr T believed this was suspicious. The timings of the 
receipts didnt reflect when he was in the bar.
Mr T asked Starling to investigate. Whilst they were sympathetic over the chat service, 
Starling wouldnt take any further action. They believed Mr T had authorised the 
transactions. And they didnt believe the evidence of receipts he could provide them would 
enable them to complete a chargeback.
Mr T brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He couldnt see why Starling wouldnt 
refund him as hed never knowingly spend that much money.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. He felt as Mr T had consented to the disputed 
transactions, Starling shouldnt refund him.
Mr T was upset by this conclusion. Despite accepting what the PSRs may consider as 
consent, he remained convinced that Starling should have taken further action.
He asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 7 August 2023. I believed a slightly different outcome 
would be fair and reasonable. I asked Starling to refund Mr T part of what hed paid.
Mr T accepted this outcome. Starlings response concentrated on whether a chargeback 
would have been possible.
I now have all I need to complete a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows explains my thinking.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them to be 
made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make without undue delay, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the customers account.
And taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Starling should fairly and reasonably:
have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Having carefully considered all of this, I consider that there were reasonable grounds for 
Starling to suspect potential fraudulent use of Mr Ts debit card and Im not persuaded that it 
took proactive steps to protect Mr Ts account.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Starling and 
Mr T. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 24 April 2023. 
What happened?
I think the following aspects are pertinent to this complaint:
Theres no dispute Mr T was in a bar at the time of these transactions.I dont doubt Mr Ts story that he was being told transactions were being declined 
and was asked to keep inputting his PIN, perhaps repeating transactions. One of the 
key aspects is that Mr T has confirmed he put in his PIN to authorise the 
transactions.
Mr T is insistent that he was unable to see what amount was on the card terminal so 
didnt know what he was being charged. 
By using his card and PIN, regardless of the amount on the terminal, or even whether 
Mr T was so drunk he didnt notice what it said, Mr T was consenting to the 
transactions. I know Mr T disputes this finding.
I dont believe Mr Ts story is massively inconsistent. I accept he initially asked 
Starling about one payment, then he said he was concerned that somebody saw him 
enter his PIN and took temporary possession of his card to make additional 
transactions. In fact I believe Mr T realised there were seven individual payments and 
was just struggling to understand how this could be. In fact there are two pairs of 
payments (at 01:46 and 01:52 and again at 02:03 and 02:07) which match his story 
that he was being told payments were declined.
Its also the case that the electronic record of his card transactions show there were 
two declined payments before the last authorised transaction at 03:02. These were 
declined as Mr T had insufficient funds remaining in his account. There were then 
another seven transactions declined over the next two hours for the same reason.
Our service is aware that bars can be involved in over-charging, or misleading 
customers about what they were paying.
Starling hasnt dismissed Mr Ts story in its entirety but has relied on both the PSRs and their 
terms and conditions to support their outcome. I note what theyve said about the 
chargeback rules. I dont dispute that, based on the evidence, there wouldnt have been a 
successful chargeback. However this is not really pertinent to my decision.
There are two aspects to authorisation under the PSRs: authentication and consent. 
Authentication means the genuine card and correct PIN were used and consent means that 
Mr T entered the PIN himself. I appreciate Mr T believes consent must involve knowledge of 
the amount. However there is nothing specific under the PSRs to confirm this and nor, in 
general without other evidence, is that the approach our service takes.
I dont dispute Mr T has told us he wouldnt have entered his PIN if hed been aware of the 
value of the transactions but that alone doesnt mean he didnt consent to the actual 
transactions.
Mr T accepts he entered his PIN when the terminal was presented to him so I dont think its 
a stretch to say  under the PSRs  he consented to the transactions. 
Because I believe Mr T authorised these transactions, Starling had an obligation to follow 
Mr Ts instruction. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances.
Should Starling have done more?
There are two aspects of Mr Ts complaint which I consider Starling should have acted on, 
considering good industry practice.The first is the value of the disputed transactions. The seven transactions were for generally 
increasing, and high-value, amounts: £117.33, £371.83, £462.08, £103.05, £546.92, 
£1,131.74 and £180.50. Having reviewed Mr Ts account statements around this time, 
theres no dispute these transactions were extremely unusual considering his normal 
account use and rose substantially in value over a relatively short time period.
The second aspect which should have alerted Starling to these payments is where they were 
taking place. Mr Ts debit card was being used in a bar and club. The merchant code 
allocated to the club would mean this information would have been known to Starling  or 
their agent  when authorising the transactions.
I would have expected Starling to have intervened and contacted Mr T to check that all was 
as it should be. Its confirmed it didnt do this. I appreciate that Mr T has told us he was 
without his phone at this time, but this doesnt have a material impact on what action I 
believe Starling should have taken.
I cant be sure what would have happened had Starling taken the decision to stop 
authorising payments. But knowing that subsequent payments did get declined, I think its 
most likely Mr T would have just been chucked out of the club earlier as his card was 
blocked. This would have saved him considerable losses.
I think the fact that Starlings systems didnt flag these payments as suspicious wasnt fair 
and reasonable given the circumstances. If they had I appreciate its likely, Mr T wouldnt 
have responded at all to any authorisation requests as he wasnt in possession of his phone. 
This would have resulted in cancelled transactions.
As I think Starling should have done more, Ive gone on to consider exactly what 
reimbursement is fair and reasonable taking all the circumstances of this case into 
consideration.
Starling would have needed a starting point. I think its more than likely they wouldnt have 
noticed the first three transactions but as soon as the fourth transaction followed within 
minutes of the third, I believe they should have been alerted and taken action to prevent 
subsequent transactions. I say this because the next transaction was five times the value of 
the fourth transaction and took place less than 10 minutes afterwards.
Any check on potential fraudulent transactions should identify transactions in certain foreign 
currencies in certain types of outlets, including bars and nightclubs.
I have considered whether Mr T was just in a bar and subsequently found himself to have 
spent too much on drinks or services. Its not Starlings role to stop someones genuine 
entertainment spending. However I have no evidence this was the case.
Therefore I think its fair and reasonable that Starling refund the fifth to seventh transactions 
to Mr T. Theyll need to add 8% simple interest a year to those amounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Starling Bank Limited to:
Refund Mr T the last three disputed transactions carried out on 5 November 2022 for 
£546.92, £1,131.74 and £180.50 (as confirmed on Mr Ts statement); and
Add 8% simple interest to the refunded amounts from 5 November 2022 to the date 
of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman