DRN-2648020
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing their 
complaint. The CMC says they were given unsuitable advice by Santander UK Plc to invest 
a combined £20,000 into investment ISAs and unit trusts in 2006.
What happened
The CMC complained to Santander in March 2020. It said Mr and Mrs S had been living 
overseas and had recently sold a property raising them £150,000 to facilitate their return to 
the UK. They spent £123,000 on a new property and had the remainder of their proceeds on 
deposit. It was for this reason they were recommended to speak with an in-house Santander 
(then Alliance and Leicester) financial adviser.  
The CMC submitted that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs S as first-time 
investors as it posed too much risk with exposure to equities; in addition, the amount 
invested represented too much of their available capital. Finally, it said that Mr and Mrs S 
were not given enough time to reflect on their new financial circumstances upon their return 
to the UK.  
Santander believed the complaints had been pursued outside of the time limits applying to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. The time limit matter notwithstanding, it also felt the 
complaint should otherwise be rejected.     
Santander said taking into account Mr and Mrs Ss needs at the time of the advice, it felt the 
recommendations had been suitable. It believed they were prepared to accept a degree of 
risk in order to potentially receive greater reward. It also said they were in a position to 
understand and accept the risks associated with investment in to the Legal & General 
Property Fund and the Legal & General Index Funds within ISA wrappers.
The CMC referred the complaint to this service. It reiterated that Mr and Mrs S were 
inexperienced first time investors, and the funds chosen for them were too risky. It also 
explained that though Mr S encashed his investments in part in 2012 and 2018 (Mrs S 
retained hers), they were aware that the value of the investments could fluctuate and 
therefore they had no reason to question it at that time. The concern that the advice might 
not have been suitable for them only arose when speaking with the CMC in 2020.  
An investigator from this service firstly looked into whether he thought the complaint was 
made in time, which he did. He felt the modest loss made by Mr S in 2012 would not have 
placed him on notice about any wider issues of suitability as discussed with the CMC.  
Santander said it consented to the complaint being considered further. Our investigator then 
reviewed the merits of the complaint but he didnt think it should succeed. He said though Mr 
and Mrs S had recently retired, they had sufficient monthly disposable income and Mr S had 
been working part-time. In addition, he felt they were left with a reasonable emergency fund 
on deposit, should this be called upon.  
Though there was no documentary evidence of the type of risk profile for Mr and Mrs S, 
there was evidence about their investment objectives. He felt that the recommendation made 
met those objectives and the proposal of the split across both the equity and property funds 
within the ISA wrappers was sufficiently diversified.   
The CMC disagreed. It said an adviser has a duty to ensure that the recommendation is 
suitable and appropriate for the client and the Index Funds posed too much risk for Mr and 
Mrs S as first time investors. That Mrs S has retained her investment in full doesnt alter that 
inappropriate advice was given in 2006. 
The CMC therefore asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Santander 
confirmed it had no additional comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I dont believe this complaint 
should succeed. 
Santander has not retained full records of the advice in 2006. This is because it was required 
to act in accordance with relevant data protection rules. Consequently, there is no confirmed 
evidence of the advice and recommendations made by the adviser. And whilst the CMC has 
been able to source fact sheets for the Legal & General Index Trust and the Property Fund 
for the ISA wrapped funds, these are from January 2020 not 2006.  
Nonetheless, there is some evidence available in the form of recollections from both parties 
and other wider circumstances known by Santander in the form of fact find information 
obtained about Mr and Mrs S in 2006. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded 
what I believe is most likely, on the balance of probabilities.
When Mr and Mrs S sought advice, they were recorded as having purchased a property 
valued at £132,000 with a small outstanding mortgage of £22,000 on an interest only basis. 
They had a further combined £35,000 in deposit based accounts and they wished to each 
utilise their ISA allowances to achieve a greater return over the medium to long term. They 
had almost £1,000 disposable income each month and had retired two years before, albeit 
with Mr S since choosing to go back to work part-time. 
Mr and Mrs S chose to place £7,000 each into ISAs investing in the Legal & General UK 
Property Fund and a further £3,000 each into the Legal & General UK Unit Trust, which was 
ISA wrapped the following April. They were noted on the fact find documentation as being 
happy to invest the agreed sums each for a minimum period of at least five years. 
I consider they were left with a reasonable amount of capital on deposit of £15,000 given 
their disposable income and the fact Mr S decided to undertake part-time work. They were 
recorded as being aged in their early 60s, having no dependents, and with a limited 
mortgage and no other debts. Further, though the CMC has said Mr and Mrs S werent given 
sufficient time to reflect on their financial position having sold their previous home and 
returned to the UK, the documentation shows they had lived at their new property for over a 
year. 
In the circumstances, I dont think the amount invested or the timing of the advice was 
inappropriate and it was reasonable for the adviser to suggest. Mr and Mrs S had sufficient 
emergency funds, Mr S held a further endowment savings policy and their recorded monthly expenditure was exceeded by their pension income. Mr S encashed the larger ISA in 2012, 
and part of the smaller one in 2018. However, Mrs S hadnt needed to make any withdrawals 
during this period. 
As Ive said above, there is no evidence of the rationale for the advisers recommendations 
in the form of a suitability letter or otherwise. However, when completing the fact find, 
discussions took place about the level of risk Mr and Mrs S were prepared to take with their 
investment because these are reflected in that document. It was agreed that Mr and Mrs Ss 
attitude to risk was medium as they wanted to achieve a high level of long term growth with 
a preference of splitting their investments across property and equity funds. The funds 
chosen did reflect the recorded risk level, with the smaller investment carrying the higher risk 
rating. 
On balance, I believe Mr and Mrs S were aware they would have to take some risk to obtain 
the returns they were hoping for. I note the CMC says that medium risk investments (its 
concern being the Index Trust, which had a higher risk grading fact sheet) were not suitable 
because Mr and Mrs S didnt have any experience of investments of this nature. However, I 
disagree with that.
There will be a point at which all investors undertake investment decisions for the first time. 
What I need to consider is whether Santanders adviser took sufficient care to assess Mr and 
Mrs Ss requirements, their financial situation, and investment objectives and that the adviser 
used the fact find information to make a suitable recommendation. In the circumstances 
taking note of the limited information we have available, I believe the adviser likely did so.  
In principle I dont consider the Index Fund, of itself, to be too complex for first time investors 
as the CMC has suggested. That will depend on the assessment of an investors 
circumstances, their attitude to risk and their investment aims. In any event, the fact find 
documentation shows that Mr and Mrs S were not first time investors. They each held one 
equity based investment already, with values of £8,000 and £20,000 respectively. Im also 
mindful that the CMC has told this service that Mr and Mrs S knew that their investments 
could make losses as well as profits in order to achieve returns greater than those from 
deposit-based accounts. 
I therefore consider on balance that Mr and Mrs S likely wanted to go ahead with their 
combined investments and that on the information Ive seen, the advice was suitable in the 
circumstances noting their recorded investment objectives.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 June 2021. 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman