DRN-4380592
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton 
failed in its service being the broker/intermediary of her motor policy following a breakdown 
on a motorway plus a subsequent accident. 
What happened
Mrs G broke down on a busy motorway in August 2022. Mrs G said she thought she hit 
something on the motorway causing her car to breakdown. Her recovery agents failed to act 
fast enough in attending to her, so the police recovered her to a car park. Her car was left 
there overnight, and another car drove into her car causing further damage. 
Mrs G complained that Swinton didnt inform her motor insurer about her claim, then 
automatically renewed her policy when she didnt want that to happen and then offered her 
pet insurance in the middle of her conversation dealing with the upsetting and traumatic 
events that had happened to her. She also complained about having to deal with non-UK call 
centres in trying to call Swinton. 
Mrs Gs complaint was complicated by the fact that three different entities were involved in 
the situation. The providers of her recovery cover, Swinton her broker or intermediary, and 
her actual motor insurer. This particular complaint is only dealing with Swintons actions. 
When Mrs G complained to Swinton, it acknowledged that its agent trying to sell her pet 
insurance in the middle of a call about her car breaking down was wrong. Plus, it shouldnt 
have renewed her policy when she didnt want it renewed. So, it paid her £25 compensation 
for this. It didnt however think it had done anything wrong in forwarding her claim to her 
insurers.
 
Given the complications of the matter, Mrs G brought her complaint to us. The investigator 
dealing with this complaint against Swinton was of the view that Swinton hadnt done 
anything wrong in passing her claim to her insurers. She agreed it had done enough to put 
things right concerning the renewing of her policy plus trying to sell her pet insurance. 
Mrs G didnt agree so her complaint was passed to me to decide. 
 
I issued a provisional decision on 15 November, and I said the following:  
First, I want to acknowledge that Mrs G has been through an awful time since her 
car broke down in the middle of a busy motorway in August 2022. That in itself was 
very traumatic and frightening. Then the confusion and muddle of three separate 
entities effectively being involved in one incident was also confusing and distressing. 
Mrs G is elderly and does suffer health problems too, so she has vulnerabilities. I do 
understand what a tiresome and distressing process she has been through, and I 
hope now that I can get things more clarified for her.
I also understand that from Mrs Gs point of view she really only has one complaint. 
However, as we write legally binding decisions if the consumer accepts our outcome, 
we can only deal with one entity at a time in each decision or complaint so that the 
outcome is only against that one business. Thats the reason we had to split Mrs Gs 
complaint into three complaints. The one against the recovery provider has already 
been dealt with and Im dealing with the other two, namely this one against Swinton 
her broker/intermediary and also the one against her insurer. 
 
So, in this decision Im only looking at what Swinton did when Mrs G contacted it 
about her damaged car. Her car was damaged initially because Mrs G felt she had 
hit something in the road when driving along on the motorway. But her clutch had 
also failed which Mrs G paid to have repaired. Her cars bodywork was also damaged 
given the recovery company didnt recover her at all from the busy motorway, so the 
police took her to a car park where it was left overnight and someone else crashed 
into it causing damage to the body work.
 
Also, by this stage, Mrs G was extremely upset about the way her recovery provider 
had acted when she called it from the side of the motorway, having broken down. 
However, Swinton isnt responsible for the way the recovery provider behaved. And 
Mrs Gs complaint against the recovery company has already been dealt with by 
another ombudsman, which means I cant reconsider anything to do with the 
recovery companys actions.  
She was also upset her calls to Swinton were routed to non-UK call centres. 
However, I have no authority to tell Swinton that it cant use non-UK call centres 
either. Each business is entitled to use whatever methods it pleases in this situation 
provided its not prohibited by the regulator. There is no prohibition on using non-UK 
call centres for insurance business. 
Swinton acknowledged it shouldnt have renewed Mrs Gs policy automatically when 
she didnt want to renew it. It rectified this as soon as it was aware, so other than 
causing that small level of inconvenience, there was no detriment to Mrs G. 
Swinton also acknowledged its agent shouldnt have tried to sell Mrs G pet insurance 
(solely because the agent heard her dog bark on the call) when she was talking 
about the extensive issues that had gone on since she broke down on the motorway.
Swinton paid Mrs G the sum of £25 compensation for these errors. I consider thats a 
fair sum since there was no detriment to Mrs G other than yet more irritation.  
So, the major substance of Mrs Gs complaint is that she thought Swinton didnt pass 
on the details of her accident and further damage to the insurers properly. Swinton 
being an intermediary/broker, are solely responsible for taking the correct details and 
passing them on to the insurance company in situations like this. So, Ive looked very 
carefully at what Swinton did. 
Mrs G phoned Swinton on Sunday 21 August which was answered by its agents. 
Obviously, Mrs G was very upset by what had happened with the recovery provider, 
so she mentioned that company a lot in the call recording. Initially the agent thought 
that that company was her insurer but realised as the call progressed her insurer was 
a different company. 
I dont think the agent did anything wrong in this call. They were kind and 
sympathetic and took all the details that they should have. They also explained that 
the details would all be passed on to the insurer and provided her with a claims 
reference. The agent also explained that because it was a Sunday, and the 
underwriters werent open nothing would be passed to them until the next day. The 
agent further explained the insurer would be in direct contact with Mrs G too. Its 
clear on the call recording Mrs G understood this. As the investigator explained, we then looked at the information which Swintons 
agent passed to the insurer, and that was all in order also. It took all the details of the 
breakdown and then the further damage, which happened when Mrs Gs car was 
parked in the carpark overnight, and that there were no details of this driver who hit 
Mrs Gs car in the car park. 
However, its clear from Swintons file that Mrs G was in regular contact complaining 
about how everything was being handled. Its also clear that Mrs G was upset, 
distressed and at times understandably confused over which entity was what. As her 
broker and intermediary, I do think Swinton could have helped more with the fact that 
her policy had in effect three different entities including it with which Mrs G had to 
negotiate and try and keep tabs on all the issues. And its clear Mrs G was finding 
this difficult. Therefore, I consider Swinton didnt help as much as it could have done 
in its service to Mrs G.  And this therefore helped to cause her additional distress and 
upset. So, I consider it should pay Mrs G the sum of £100 compensation in addition. 
This is in line with our approach for such failures in service and I consider it fair and 
reasonable here. 
So, in conclusion I think its right Swinton acknowledged the issues with the 
automatic renewal and the attempted selling of pet insurance which was wrong, and 
that compensation of the £25 paid to Mrs G, is right for these minor and very 
unwelcome further irritations.  But I think it could have done more to help Mrs G in 
navigating everything more successfully. So, I think it should pay Mrs G the further 
£100 compensation.
Swinton didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs G mentioned another entity which is 
actually an agent of her insurer, not of Swinton. Also, she noted the carpark where her car 
was taken to by the police was not an overnight carpark but a carpark for a fast-food outlet. 
She didnt however say whether she agreed with my provisional decision or not.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, Im upholding this complaint for compensation only. Ill now explain 
why.
The entity which Mrs G mentioned is actually an agent of her insurer, not of Swinton, so it 
has no relevance in this complaint. And its always been clear her car was taken by the 
police to a carpark rather than a secure compound. Again, that has nothing to do with 
Swinton. 
Therefore, in the absence of any further information as regards Swintons actions from Mrs 
G and in the absence of any comments from Swinton itself, I see no reason to change the 
outcome I detailed in my provisional here. My final decision
So, although I understand Mrs G might still be disappointed with my decision, for these 
reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint for compensation only.
I now require Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton to pay Mrs G the 
sum of £100 compensation in addition to the £25 it said it paid her. So that the total 
compensation payable to Mrs G is £125 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman