DRN-2752419
The complaint
Ms D has complained about the settlement Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) paid 
for a damaged laptop when she made a claim under her home insurance policy. Ms D says 
RSAs service was poor. 
All reference to RSA in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In August 2020 Ms D made a claim under the contents section of her home insurance policy 
to RSA when she accidentally damaged her laptop. 
RSA incorrectly told Ms D it would pay £737.09 minus the excess to settle the claim. Three 
days later, RSA emailed Ms D to say it couldnt offer this amount and asked Ms D for proof 
of ownership and that it would need to collect the laptop to inspect the damage. 
There followed failed attempts by RSAs agent through a third party company to collect Ms 
Ds laptop. So RSA said Ms D could instead take the laptop for an independent report and it 
reimbursed her for the cost of this. 
Having received the report and Ms Ds laptop after the third attempt, RSA made an offer for 
an equivalent replacement for £349.99 (minus the excess of £100).
Ms D was unhappy with this as she said when she bought the laptop in 2009 it was a top of 
the range model. She said the replacement offered wasnt in the same range as when she 
bought her laptop. She asked for a cash settlement instead, which RSA agreed.
In the meantime, the replacement RSA had based its offer on became unavailable. The 
closest available equivalent replacement was £469.13. So RSA updated the settlement offer 
to Ms D to this amount minus the excess. And for providing incorrect information at the 
outset of the claim, RSA paid Ms D £25 compensation. RSA was sorry Ms D had been 
inconvenienced by the issues with the delivery collection company.
Ms D asked us to look at her complaint. She doesnt feel the compensation RSA has paid 
covers the inconvenience caused by the failed attempts to collect her laptop from her home. 
Our investigator thought RSA had fairly settled Ms Ds claim in line with the policy terms. 
And she thought it had done enough to compensate her for its poor service by its apology, 
how quickly it corrected its error and the compensation and reimbursement of the damage 
report.
Ms D didnt agree. She referred to what happened when she gave feedback to an 
independent feedback website. Our investigator explained that we cannot consider this as its 
outside of our jurisdiction. 
In summary Ms D says RSA failed to follow its own policy process when she made a claim. 
Its agents provided a poor service and RSA didnt know what they were doing. She found 
their approach old fashioned. So she wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ds policy doesnt provide new for old cover for the claim she made for her damaged 
laptop. RSA  like many other insurers  is able to purchase items at a discounted price 
through commercial arrangements with third party suppliers. Ms Ds laptop was no longer 
available so it wasnt possible to replace it with one identical to Ms Ds. So RSA paid Ms D 
what it would cost them to replace it with a similar model based on the 2009 laptop, rather 
than a top of the range 2020 model. So Im satisfied that the amount RSA paid Ms D as the 
cash equivalent sum for her laptop was fair and in line with the policy. And this meant Ms D 
was able to put the amount toward a higher specification laptop if she chose. But I dont think 
RSA was responsible for paying any more than it did in settlement of the claim. 
I can understand Ms Ds frustration at expecting on three occasions over a week for a third 
party company to collect her laptop without success from her home. But I dont think the 
issues experienced were entirely in RSAs control. RSA said Ms D could take her laptop for 
an independent review and reimbursed her for the £30 cost to do so. It also apologised for 
the inconvenience caused. And it paid Ms D £25 compensation for providing her with 
incorrect information about the claim when she first called. 
When making a claim, I think its reasonable to expect a degree of inconvenience. 
Unfortunately I think this is inevitable. And theres no dispute that RSA made an error at the 
outset of Ms Ds claim. I think RSA could have handled things better. 
However, I think in this case, RSA has done enough to put things right. And I think it fairly 
settled Ms Ds claim. So while I understand Ms D will be disappointed, Im not asking RSA to 
do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman