DRN-2630792
The complaint
Mr C, as director of 7, complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with the 
opening of a new business account.
What happened
Mr C says Nationwide closed 7s account and told him it would open a new replacement 
account. He says the application was rejected despite a similar companys application being 
approved. Mr C says he and the other directors of 7 have been caused substantial distress 
and stress by Nationwides mistakes and also says the reasons for the account rejection 
were incorrect. He would like Nationwide to pay £900 compensation.
Nationwide accepts making a mistake by giving misleading information that the account 
would automatically be opened. It says it has offered £150 compensation. Nationwide says it 
was entitled to reject the account application by 7 as it needed further information but in any 
event the account has now been opened. It says it acted in line with account terms and 
conditions by rejecting the application and told 7 the reasons for that.
Mr C brought the complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer fair 
and reasonable. The investigator thought it wasnt our role to tell a business what its account 
opening criteria ought to be and thought Nationwide was entitled to reject the account 
application if it thought the terms and conditions were not met. The investigator explained 
that we couldnt order compensation for distress to a business and didnt think there was any 
evidence of 7 suffering any financial loss.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and maintains the reasons for the account application 
rejection were wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer.
I make clear to Mr C that we are not Nationwides regulator and so its not our role to punish 
it or tell it what its account opening criteria ought to be. I appreciate Mr C says that 
Nationwides grounds for rejecting the account application were incorrect, but Im satisfied 
its up to Nationwide to decide what its account opening terms and conditions are and with 
whom it enters into a business relationship with. I think such matters are for Nationwide to 
decide upon when exercising its commercial judgement and not something I can fairly 
interfere in. In any event I can see that 7 has now opened a Nationwide account and Im 
satisfied that Nationwide was reasonably entitled to ask further questions about the 
application if it had any concerns its terms and conditions were not met.
There is no dispute here that Nationwide gave Mr C incorrect information about the account 
opening process and that the account would automatically be opened. But Im satisfied that 
Nationwide has fairly apologised for that mistake and offered what I think is a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer of £150. I appreciate Mr C says he and the other directors of 
7 suffered stress and distress as a result of what took place. But I can only consider the 
impact of that mistake on 7 and not upon Mr C and the other directors, and I dont think 7 
suffered any financial loss as a result of the misleading information.
Overall, I find Nationwides offer of compensation fair and reasonable and I hope Mr C 
appreciates the reasons why I can only consider the impact Nationwides misleading 
information had upon 7.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £150. Mr Cs acceptance, of behalf of 7, of that offer would be in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 7 to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman