DRN-3906828
The complaint
Mr L complains about the price quoted by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) to 
renew his buildings and contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L received a quote to renew his policy which he says was 53% higher than the previous 
year, so he complained. RSA responded and explained, each year at renewal time, they 
take a view of the risk theyre providing insurance against based on the latest information 
available to them at the time. They explained they take a number of factors into account 
such as changes in external risk information covering risk indicators for different claim types. 
They said theyd decided to move all policyholders to the equivalent new business price so 
that all policyholders are treated the same. RSA explained, this meant policyholders paying 
less than the equivalent new business price have received premium increases. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L. He thought RSA hadnt treated Mr L unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. Mr L disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr L will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr L paid a premium of £224.64 in 2021 but then received a quote for £343.01 in 
2022  this is just under £120 more. RSA have provided me with confidential business 
sensitive information to explain how Mr Ls price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant 
share this with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im 
satisfied the price he was quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no 
evidence that other RSA customers in Mr Ls position will have been charged a lower 
premium. 
I acknowledge Mr L wants a more detailed breakdown showing the increase in premium. As 
mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about RSAs risk model, but I can see a 
significant factor for the increase relates to new rules for general insurance pricing 
introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in January 2022. They apply to motor 
and buildings insurance only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules 
when offering renewals. The rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated 
from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr L was offered his renewal by RSA, so 
they did need to follow these at the time. And, given theyve done this  and the information 
provided shows Mr L hasnt been charged more than the ENBP - I cant say theyve acted 
unfairly if this has resulted in a change in price. 
As I've said, I cannot share all the information Mr L would likely want to see to understand 
why his premium increased as it did at renewal. A large reason for the change is in response 
to the FCA pricing rules and RSA taking the steps they needed to, allowing them to be 
compliant with these. But they have also explained that they implemented new risk models 
which resulted in a lower assessment of risk for some customers and a higher assessment 
of risk for other customers. 
Mr L may feel this is unfair, but RSA, like all insurers, will review their approach to risks at 
different points and this will result in changes to the premium. They have explained this, 
together with the ENBP, was a change across all their policies as they changed their 
approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the change and Mr L 
hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change their approach. 
I understand Mr L says he was able to obtain a cheaper quote with RSA as a new customer. 
RSA say this new quote will have been based on the prices offered to new customers on the 
day they generate the quote. They say their prices will differ as they regularly review their 
prices to react to changing market conditions. I understand why this concerned Mr L but, as 
mentioned above, the ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the 
renewal invite is generated  so its not unreasonable to expect there will be differences in 
price depending on when the quote is obtained. 
I also note Mr L says he was able to obtain a cheaper quote from another insurer within 48 
hours of receiving the renewal from RSA. I do acknowledge why this will worry Mr L but its 
for a business to decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to attach 
to those risks - different insurers will apply different factors. Thats not to say an insurer 
offering a higher premium has made an error compared to an insurer offering a cheaper 
premium  but rather, it reflects the different approach theyve decided to take to risk.  
I wish to reassure Mr L Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Paviter DhaddyOmbudsman