DRN-3679232
The complaint
The estate of Ms W complains, through its representative, that Wren Sterling Financial 
Planning Limited (Wren Sterling) gave Ms W poor advice to buy an enhanced annuity with 
another provider - provider A - that didnt fully take into account her medical conditions. 
My decision here relates only to the complaint against Wren Sterling. The estate of Ms Ws 
complaint against provider A has also been separately considered by this service.
The estate of Ms W is represented in this complaint by the late Ms Ws husband, Mr W. 
What happened
Ms W was a deferred member of her defined benefit (DB) Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) and had been since 2012. In 2019 the Scheme administrator provided her with a cash 
equivalent transfer value for her Scheme benefits. Ms W contacted Wren Sterling, a firm of 
Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs), which had been engaged by the Scheme 
administrator to provide advice.
Wren Sterling completed a fact find with Ms W during a phone call on 28 August 2019. At the 
time, she was aged 55 and wanted to take pension income from the OPS so that she could 
reduce her working week from four days to three. I understand that Ms W sat with her 
husband during the call.
Ms Ws OPS had a normal retirement age of 65. And a spouses pension of 50% of her 
pension.
Ms Ws IFA covered Ms Ws OPS pension options from the Scheme on this call. These 
were:
Option 1 - An initial pension of £3,446.31 each year.
Option 2 - A Tax-Free Cash (TFC) lump sum of £17,094.90 and a reduced pension of 
£2,564.22 each year.
Option 3 - A cash equivalent transfer value of around £168,000.
He also discussed in detail with Ms W what income shed need in retirement. Ms W told 
Wren Sterling that she was about to downsize at the end of the month and this would leave 
her mortgage-free and with a significant emergency fund. She also told it that she had other 
DB pensions worth around £4,000 each year which would start at age 60.
The fact find also covered the following points: 
- Ms W was looking to largely stop working at 60. She needed the income from the 
pension in question now, so she could reduce her working time.
- Ms W originally said she wanted to take Option 2 from her OPS, but when the IFA 
asked her specifically about the 50% spouses benefit included in this option, she 
said: hes said he doesnt actually want that. Hes older than me. The IFA told Ms W 
that there were ways of re-shaping the pension. He also asked Ms W why her 
husband didnt want a spouses pension. She said it was because he was older than 
her and would probably die before she did. 
At the end of the fact find call, the IFA double checked with Ms W about the spouses 
benefit. She repeated: he has said he doesnt want an income. The IFA also told Ms W that 
a spouses pension wouldnt reduce the starting pension by very much. But Ms W stated that 
she still preferred to have no spouses pension. 
- Ms W said she was going to use the TFC lump sum for a new car and a holiday.
- While Ms W didnt want a spouses pension, she saw the five-year guarantee Wren 
Sterling said it would request as a good thing.
- Having consulted with her husband on which aspects were most important to them, 
Ms W told the IFA that the ability to retire early was her most important priority. And 
the provision for a spouses pension was the least important.
Wren Sterling also carried out an assessment of Ms Ws attitude to risk. This showed that 
she wasnt prepared to accept any investment risk. 
Ms Ws medical conditions were also discussed during the August 2019 call. She said shed 
been hospitalized for four nights on the diagnosis of a serious medical condition nine years 
ago. She rated her health as average when asked to choose from good, average and 
poor. The IFA said hed look into enhanced annuities to see if Ms W could get a better 
income because of her medical conditions. 
Mr and Ms W completed and signed a Retirement Health Form on 28 August 2019 so that 
quotes for enhanced annuities could be obtained. Both ticked the box on the form which 
stated they didnt want to see the medical report before it was sent to the provider.  
Wren Sterling then did some analysis of the information it had gathered and got some 
enhanced annuity quotes for Ms W. It set out its recommendations in a suitability letter dated 
18 November 2019. 
This recommended that Ms W took the transfer value from her former OPS. And that she 
then took a TFC lump sum, with the rest being used to buy an enhanced annuity. The 
annuity would be a single life annuity with a five-year guarantee which increased at 3% each 
year. Wren Sterling said that due to Ms Ws health, she would be able to receive a higher 
income from purchasing an enhanced annuity than she would from taking her benefits from 
the Scheme.
Wren Sterling had a further call with Ms W on 11 December 2019 to go through the 
suitability letter with her. Ms W told Wren Sterling that her daughters marriage had broken 
down since shed first spoken to it. So she now wanted to consider a higher TFC lump sum. 
During this call, Ms W said shed read the suitability report and that she: understood it all a 
bit more now. The IFA asked Ms W to confirm that she wanted him to exclude her husband 
from any sort of provision. And she said: Yes, its his choice.
The IFA said he would run the annuity quotes again given the changes to Ms W TFC lump 
sum requirements. 
Later on in the call, Ms W said: Ive read your report and its in plain English, I understand it. 
The IFA said that any annuity Ms W bought couldnt be cashed in once it was bought. And 
noted that she would have 30 days to cancel the annuity if she changed her mind. But that 
she probably wouldnt be able to return her transfer value to the OPS if that happened. Ms W 
said she wasnt likely to change her mind.
Wren Sterling advised Ms W to transfer her OPS benefits to provider A to buy an enhanced 
annuity. Ms W took the maximum TFC lump sum of £42,035.50. The first monthly annuity 
payment was then made in February 2020. The pension that had been set up was for 
£3,722.16 each year, with 3% annual pension increases and a five-year guarantee. No 
spouses pension was included in the annuity.
Ms W sadly died in July 2021. Provider A told Mr W that the annuity payments would 
continue for the remainder of the five-year guarantee period which had been selected.
In total, the TFC lump sum Ms W had taken, and the annuity payments that had and would 
be made, were around £60,000. So the annuity had cost Ms W about £100,000 more than 
she and her family had got back from it. 
Mr W complained to both Wren Sterling and provider A in early July 2021. He said that his 
late wifes medical conditions had led to a poor life expectancy, so he couldnt understand 
why Wren Sterling had recommended what he felt was an inappropriate product to her. He 
said the annuity had clearly not been fit for the purpose it was intended. And felt that it had 
been mis-sold. Mr W also felt that given his wifes very low attitude to risk, she wouldnt have 
wanted to lose most of the transferred money.
Wren Sterling issued its final response to the complaint on 16 July 2021. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. And felt that its advice was correct under the circumstances. It 
acknowledged that Mr W was upset because the annuity hadnt paid out the majority of the 
purchase price. But said this was the nature of annuities. It also said that the only way Ms W 
couldve been left with capital wouldve been if shed transferred to a drawdown 
arrangement. It said that shed told it she wouldnt consider this option, which it felt hadnt 
been appropriate due to her attitude to risk and desire for a secure income for life. It also 
said that the annuity option shed chosen had given Ms W a higher income than taking the 
scheme pension. 
Wren Sterling also said that it had offered Ms W options to provide a greater guaranteed 
payment period or a spouses pension, but shed told it she felt she would outlive her 
husband. And in the event of her death he would have sufficient income. It said Ms W had 
also told it repeatedly, with her husband sat next to her, that he didnt want or need a 
spouses pension, even at a relatively low cost. Wren Sterling said that if either a spouses 
pension or death benefits had been important to Ms W or her husband, it wouldve 
addressed those needs in its recommendations. 
Mr W felt that his wifes medical conditions hadnt been appropriately passed on to her 
annuity provider. And that this omission had led to the pension annuity not being fit for 
purpose.
Wren Sterling shared a copy of the Retirement Health Form Ms W had completed before the 
annuity had been purchased. It said the information on the form was the basis for the 
enhanced annuity quotes it had obtained. And that it had included all the conditions shed 
mentioned when accessing the quotes. 
Wren Sterling also said that it was Ms W who had described her health as average. And told it that she expected to outlive her husband, and that he didnt need any benefits from the 
pension being transferred. It said it had collected the medical information from Ms W in good 
faith and passed it on to a panel of annuity providers to see if she could obtain a better 
income than was available from her Scheme. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Wren Sterlings response, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. He felt that serious questions needed to be addressed about how his late-wifes life 
expectancy could be so badly calculated. He felt that if either Wren Sterling or provider A 
had sought medical records from her doctors then provider A wouldve told Wren Sterling 
than an annuity wasnt suitable. Mr W wanted his wifes estate to be compensated for Wren 
Sterlings failure to refer to her actual medical records. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Wren 
Sterling had done anything wrong. 
Mr W didnt agree. He made the following points:
- He explained how poorly his wife had been since shed been diagnosed with a 
specific medical condition in May 2010. He said that this condition had been likely to 
lead to further life-threatening problems. 
- He noted that his wife had told Wren Sterling: my health is not brilliant and not likely 
to improve during the fact find call on 28 August 2019. He felt this showed that Wren 
Sterling shouldnt have thought his wife would outlive him given this and the age 
difference between them. And that Wren Sterling shouldve acted on this statement 
to find out more about Ms Ws health. 
He felt it shouldve accessed further medical information from his wifes GP to determine the 
extent of her health issues. And that simply relying on the health questionnaire was negligent 
and not fit for purpose. Mr W also said that his wifes health had deteriorated during the 
advice process. He provided this service with further information about how her health had 
rapidly declined. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be extremely disappointing to Mr 
W. I can see he feels very strongly about this complaint. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision.
Id first like to offer my sincere condolences for the loss of Ms W. 
In order to be able to make my decision on this complaint, Ive listened in full to the fact find 
call between Wren Sterling and Ms W on 28 August 2019. And the recommendation call on 
11 December 2019. Ive also considered all the other documentary evidence both sides have 
provided. And the points theyve separately made to this service.
I first considered what was said during the fact find call.
Fact find callWren Sterling said it sent Ms W a Pre-Retirement Pack which gave her personalised 
examples of the annuities available. This showed how the different options for pension 
increases, guarantees or a spouses pension would affect the starting level of income. 
During the fact find call, Ms W and the IFA discussed whether any pension should include a 
spouses pension. Ms W said that as her husband was several years old than her, and 
already receiving pension income, a spouses pension wasnt needed. She also said that 
she felt she was likely to outlive him, given the age difference.
The IFA noted on the call that there was only a small difference in the starting pension 
income between comparable pensions that included a 50% spouses pension, and those that 
didnt. He pointed out one particular example where the difference was only around £100 a 
year. And said: its quite a small difference, I know youve said [husbands name] might die 
before you because hes older, is it worth the risk, hes in good health as well, based on 
those two figures there, would you still prefer to have no spouses benefit, or would you 
prefer to have a spouses benefit?. Ms W answered, Id still prefer no spouses benefit, hes 
still going to pick it up from my [other DB] pension, and the [DC] one, hes been quite clear 
about it.
From what Ive heard, the IFA took reasonable steps to check that Ms W really didnt want to 
include a spouses pension if she bought an enhanced annuity. The example he provided 
showed that it wouldnt cost Ms W much to add a spouses pension. But even then, she 
didnt want to do it. 
Im satisfied that Ms W understood what she was doing when she rejected the option of a 
spouses pension. I say this because she gave consistent reasons for her husband not 
wanting or needing a spouses pension here. And because her husband helped her to 
establish a priority list for her pension which rated the provision of a spouses pension as the 
least important. I also understand that Mr W was party to the call, but that at no point did he 
correct his wife.
Im also satisfied that although options to leave capital to Ms Ws family were discussed 
during this call, she discounted them. And confirmed that leaving the pension monies to 
anyone in the event of her death wasnt very important to her. This was also confirmed in the 
priority list for her pension, in which she placed leaving lump sums to her family fourth out of 
six priorities.
Ms Ws medical conditions were discussed during the call. Wren Sterling said that from what 
shed told it, her medical conditions appeared to be stable. It said that nothing from the 
conversation between Ms W and the IFA had suggested that shed felt she was approaching 
the end of her life. It also said that it collected information about Ms Ws medical conditions 
in good faith, which it then passed on to a panel of annuity providers to see if she could get a 
better pension income than that available from the OPS. 
Mr W felt that given her declared illnesses Wren Sterling shouldve asked Ms Ws doctor for 
further information. He also said that although Ms W had told Wren Sterling she thought 
shed outlive him, this was her being optimistic rather than really expecting to. 
Ive carefully considered what was discussed about Ms Ws health during this call. Ms W told 
the IFA during this call that she was in average health. This was the middle option offered to 
her. She said she did have some health issues, but said thered only been one occasion  
nine years ago  when shed needed to be hospitalized. This information caused the IFA to 
say that hed look into enhanced annuities to see if Ms W could get a better income because 
of her medical conditions. The medical information was also written down on a Retirement Health Form on 28 August 
2019. The form was clearly written, so Ive no reason to consider that Ms W didnt 
understand what it was asking for. 
I agree with our investigator that IFAs cant be expected to know the detailed implications of 
individual medical conditions. Instead, Id expect the IFA to have asked Ms W pertinent 
questions about her medical conditions to ensure that shed provided all the information 
necessary to get the fairest enhanced annuity. 
After the IFA asked Ms W how shed rate her own health, he went on to ask her about the 
specific conditions she suffered from. From what Ive seen, the medical details, including the 
medication Ms W was taking were correctly recorded. 
Having listened to the call, I cant fairly say that Ms W told the IFA anything that shouldve 
indicated that she didnt feel she had very long to live. Therefore, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable, based on the information it had, for Wren Sterling to look into enhanced 
annuities for Ms W. And although I acknowledge that Mr W considers that Wren Sterling 
shouldve asked Ms Ws doctor for further information about her declared illnesses, I dont 
consider that Ms W gave Wren Sterling any reason to consider it needed further information 
about her health than shed already given it. 
I also considered the suitability report and what was said during the phone call on 11 
December 2019, when the IFAs recommendations were discussed. 
Suitability report and recommendations call
The suitability report covered all of Ms Ws options. These included transferring her pension 
and going into drawdown. This wasnt an option Ms W wanted to consider as she didnt want 
to take any investment risk with her pension. It also covered the option of taking the entire 
transfer value as a lump sum. But Ms W wanted to avoid paying tax on the proceeds. 
The suitability report also explained the benefits to Ms W of staying in the OPS and taking a 
Scheme pension. It stated that this would include a 50% spouses pension to her husband 
after her death. Her other option was to transfer the money and buy an annuity from an 
insurance company. This was the option the IFA recommended as his analysis suggested it 
would best meet her needs.
Before her needs for the TFC lump sum changed, Ms W had decided to take a lower TFC 
lump sum than she couldve taken. The recommendation noted that the IFA had calculated 
that Ms W would have received more by age 80 by taking the reduced lump sum. 
During the call, Ms W confirmed shed read and understood the suitability report. 
From what Ive seen, it appears that Ms W had originally felt that she was likely to be better 
off over time if she took a reduced TFC lump sum. I consider that this shows that she didnt 
think she would die soon. If she had been more concerned about her health, I wouldve 
expected her to have originally asked for the maximum TFC lump sum.
During the recommendations call, the IFA went through all the options hed covered in the 
suitability report. At several points during the call the IFA discussed spouses benefits. Each 
time, Ms W said she didnt want them to be included, even when the IFA covered a clear 
example of the relatively low reduction to the starting pension of adding a spouses pension.
Based on the evidence, Ive considered whether the advice process was carried out in line 
with what I wouldve expected. From what Ive seen, a reasonably thorough fact find was initially carried out. This explored 
Ms Ws options in detail, taking into account her attitude to risk and her capacity for loss, as 
well as her retirement plans and her income needs in retirement. I consider that the IFA tried 
to find out all that he needed to know about Ms Ws medical conditions. And as her 
responses were also recorded on a separate medical questionnaire, Im satisfied that this 
reflects Ms Ws position at the time of the advice.
After collecting this information about Ms Ws background and her retirement objectives, 
Wren Sterling carried out detailed analysis on whether a transfer out of the OPS was in her 
best interests.
As our investigator noted, the regulator explained what the starting point should be when an 
adviser is considering whether to transfer a DB OPS. It said:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests. 
So the adviser should start with the assumption that the transfer is unsuitable, unless it could 
be clearly demonstrated that it was in Ms Ws best interest to transfer.
From what Ive seen, the IFA told Ms W about the regulators stance during the fact find call. 
He also told her that his starting point would be not to recommend a transfer because the 
transfer value offered wasnt big enough to match the scheme pension benefits. 
I also consider that Wren Sterling fairly and reasonably ruled out recommending Ms W 
transferred into a drawdown arrangement as this wouldve forced her to take investment risk 
which shed clearly stated she didnt want to take. So the only reasonable options she had 
given her attitude to risk were to leave the OPS benefits where they were or transfer and buy 
an annuity. 
The IFA then considered that because of Ms Ws medical conditions, she was eligible for 
enhanced annuity rates. She also didnt want spouses benefits. The annuity quotes Wren 
Sterling had obtained for the single life enhanced pension Ms W wanted showed that a 
significantly higher starting pension would be possible than that provided by the Scheme 
pension. As the enhanced annuity option provided the type of pension Ms W said she 
wanted, and because it offered a higher income than the Scheme pension, Im satisfied that 
Wren Sterling acted fairly and reasonably when it advised Ms W to transfer and take the 
enhanced annuity. I say this because it left Ms W with a higher income than if shed taken 
her benefits from the Scheme.
I do understand why Mr W felt that his late wifes medical conditions hadnt been properly 
considered. But Im not persuaded that this was the case here. From what Ive seen, Wren 
Sterling didnt have any reason to suspect that Ms W hadnt given it full details about her 
medical problems. And while I can see that Ms W was very poorly at the time she was 
considering her options, Im not persuaded that she gave Wren Sterling any reason to 
question her more than it did about her health. 
I agree that Ms W did tell Wren Sterling: my health is not brilliant and not likely to improve 
during the fact find call. But I dont agree that this statement shouldve led Wren Sterling to 
disbelieve what Ms W had told it about how she thought shed outlive her husband. Ive also 
seen nothing that persuaded me that Wren Sterling shouldve accessed further medical information from Ms W GP to determine the extent of her health issues. 
I am very sorry that Ms Ws health deteriorated so quickly. But Ive seen no evidence that 
Wren Sterling acted negligently when it relied on the information Ms W included in the health 
questionnaire and what she had told it. 
With the benefit of hindsight, I can see that Ms W and her family couldve potentially got 
more benefit from her OPS pension if shed transferred it into a drawdown arrangement or 
cashed it all in. But Ive seen no evidence that at the time of the advice these options 
shouldve been recommended to her. There wouldve also potentially been a greater benefit 
overall if Ms W had added a spouses pension to her annuity. But she was clear that she 
didnt want that. 
I also cant fairly say that in recommending the annuity to Ms W Wren Sterling was going 
against her desire to avoid risk. I say this because the recommended annuity removed all 
investment risk. And because the enhanced annuity Ms W bought took account of all the 
medical information shed provided.
Overall, Im satisfied that Wren Sterling acted fairly and reasonably. And Ive found no 
evidence that it did anything wrong. Therefore I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman