DRN-3976976
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G are unhappy that Soteria Insurance Limited (SIL) decided to cash settle their 
claim rather than complete repairs.
 
The buildings and contents policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to 
Mrs G throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs Gs kitchen was damaged by an escape of water from her bathroom, so she claimed 
under her policy. Mrs G was unhappy with the settlement SIL offered and she brought her 
first complaint to us. 
SIL offered a cash settlement of around £5,000, or to visit her home again to reassess the 
damage and settlement amount. Our service decided that SILs offer was fair, which 
concluded our involvement in the first complaint.
Mrs G decided to allow SIL to reassess the damage, which resulted in a revision of the 
scope of works and the cost of materials. Mrs G considered using private contractors, but 
they were too expensive. SIL set about planning the repairs. Mrs G wanted to make some 
changes to the layout of her kitchen, and she accepted that she would need to pay for the 
additional cost. However, Mrs G didnt think it was fair that she should pay the associated 
labour costs.
SIL reviewed the overall claim. Having done so, it decided not to continue using its own 
contractors because of the repeated visits, change in work requirements and delays out of 
its control throughout the claim process so far. SIL wrote to Mrs G to say that it would be 
paying a cash settlement instead.
Mrs G complained. She didnt think she was responsible for the delays, and she said she 
hadnt asked for a different layout of kitchen beyond moving an appliance. Mrs G also said 
the contractors were happy to carry on with the work, despite SILs claim to the contrary.
SIL looked into the complaint and issued a final response explaining that its decision 
remained the same. Mrs G brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think SIL had made an unfair offer. He said that because SIL wasnt 
responsible for the delays, it was reasonable for SIL to make a cash settlement in line with 
the policy.
Mrs G didnt agree. She said SIL caused the delays and made untrue claims about her 
wanting changes to the layout and the reason for the contractor not wanting to complete the 
work.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to clarify that I wont be looking at any of the issues raised in Mrs Gs first 
complaint. This service has already reached a final decision on that matter. I referred to it 
earlier simply for background information.
Both Mrs G and SIL provided a lot of information about the complaint. I wont refer to 
everything: instead, Ive considered the overall complaint, and Ill comment on specific 
evidence where I think it helps explain my decision.
Cash settlement
Mrs Gs main complaint is that SIL decided to cash settle her claim instead of using its 
contractors to complete the kitchen repairs. SIL said it decided to cash settle because of the 
time the claim had taken without any progress.
The terms and conditions of the policy allow SIL to repair or cash settle a claim. Mrs G 
wanted its contractors to complete the repairs and SIL was initially dealing with the claim in 
that way. But SIL decided to cash settle after two and a half years passed without any 
meaningful progress with the repairs.
For me to uphold Mrs Gs complaint about this matter, Id need to see evidence that SIL 
unfairly changed its settlement from repair to cash payment. The reasons SIL gave Mrs G 
were:
She asked for additional work and to change the layout, such as knocking down a 
wall.
Little progress was made with her kitchen choice in over two years.
Its contractors werent responsible for the lengthy delay.
Due to the time taken trying to finalise the work needed, its contractors were no 
longer able to carry out the work.
On the face of it these reasons seem fair. But Mrs G said that SILs claims were untrue, so 
Ive looked at what the evidence tells me.
Layout changes
Mrs G said she didnt ask for a layout change, but she agreed she asked to move one 
appliance. In her correspondence with this service, Mrs G said, The layout of my kitchen 
had changed very marginally as I had moved my [appliance] to the rear of my kitchen. 
This is also reflected in her email correspondence with SIL, along with her initial thoughts 
about knocking a wall down. 
However small the layout changes mightve been, and whether or not Mrs G decided against 
them in the end, they were still matters which SIL had to consider in its handling of her claim. 
Therefore, Im satisfied the evidence supports SILs point that Mrs G sought additional work 
beyond simply repairing or replacing the damaged parts of the kitchen on a like-for-like 
basis.
 
Disputed causing delaysMrs G said she didnt cause the delays. I note that SILs comment about the delays was that 
its contractors didnt cause them. 
During claims of this nature, delays can be experienced through no fault of either party. For 
example, I see Mrs G waited for quotes for work by the contractors outside the claim 
process, which affected her response times. Thats not unreasonable. I also note Mrs G 
changed her mind about the kitchen units because her original choice wasnt similar to the 
damaged units. Again, thats not unreasonable and Id expect her to seek the closest 
replacement in terms of quality. 
These are just examples of the evidence which tells me, overall, that it would be 
unreasonable to hold SIL responsible for the lengthy delays in progressing the claim. 
Contractors
SIL said its contractors werent able to continue because of the delays. But Mrs G said they 
told her they were happy to carry on. 
Firstly, I understand that Mrs G has a recording of a conversation with the contractors 
supporting her position. Unfortunately, she said the recording hasnt captured both sides of 
the conversation. Nevertheless, I see no reason to doubt what she says.
However, regardless of whether the individual contractors told Mrs G they wanted to 
continue with the work, Ive seen evidence in SILs account notes which confirm the 
contractors werent able to carry on because of the time everything was taking. 
It may be that the difference in opinion is due to the level of authority within the contracting 
company. But, regardless of the reason, Im satisfied that SIL reasonably reported that its 
contractors confirmed they werent able to carry on with the work.
I understand Mrs G wouldve wanted her kitchen repaired to a standard as close to that as 
she had before the damage. And I can see why it would be a good opportunity to make 
some changes while already dealing with the upheaval. But the evidence doesnt persuade 
me that SILs reasons for deciding to cash settle instead of continuing with repairs was 
unreasonable in all the circumstances of the claim.
Contribution ceiling
Mrs G said SIL caused delays because it wouldnt confirm a ceiling on the amount shed 
need to contribute towards the cost of work. Her contribution would be for anything additional 
she wanted which didnt form part of the claim. 
As the work wouldnt be part of the claim, it would be done on a private basis. Therefore, SIL 
would have no responsibility in respect of the additional work. Mrs G wouldve needed to get 
more specific information from the contractors completing the work, regardless of whether 
they were the same team as that used by SIL.
Reply to emails
The final point Ill address is Mrs Gs comment that SIL didnt reply to her. Ive looked at the 
email evidence, but I cant agree that SIL never responded to Mrs Gs emails. I can see 
chasers to Mrs G for her response to its questions, and, in general, the contact was two-way. 
I see no reason to uphold this element of complaint.
In summary, the evidence doesnt persuade me that SIL caused the claim to last more than 
two years, or that it unfairly decided to pay a cash settlement rather than complete the work.
I wont be asking SIL to do any more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman