DRN-1639293
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd offset a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
redress for a mis-sold policy against her account. 
What happened
Miss B had a credit account with S, an online retailer. With a balance of £2,537.86 
outstanding, S sold the debt to Lowell in November 2014. In August 2019 with the balance at 
£2502.86, Miss B agreed a payment plan with Lowell for a settlement amount of £250.29 to 
be paid in three monthly instalments. 
Miss B brought a complaint about mis-sold PPI on her S account. A redress of £2,096.61 
was awarded for this mis-sale. Ms B said Lowell used this refund as partial repayment of her 
debt. She complained to Lowell. She said S sent the full PPI redress amount to Lowell and 
that Lowell ignored their agreement and kept the full amount. 
In its final response Lowell said as it was the legal owner of the debt the amount refunded for 
PPI would be deducted from the outstanding balance. Miss B remained unhappy and 
brought her complaint to this service. She felt it was unfair because she had entered into an 
agreement with Lowell to reduce the amount to settle the account by 90%. 
Our investigator concluded Lowell had acted fairly when it applied the PPI redress amount to 
the outstanding balance of Miss Bs account. Miss B did not agree and asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. She said she had done some legal research and she believed she 
could fight this if she had written acceptance of her settlement offer stating the remainder of 
the debt would be written off. In this situation, she said, there would be no longer a debt to 
set-off against. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint I do not deal with the merits of Miss Bs PPI claim with S or the amount of 
redress she was awarded. Ive looked at whether it was fair for Lowell to use this payment to 
set off her outstanding debt. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Miss B but having 
done so I wont be asking Lowell to do anything further. 
Lowell agreed to a partial settlement of 10% of the debt. In its confirmation letter dated 8 
August 2019 Lowell outlined the agreement and payment schedule for the reduced 
settlement. It said: 
When your repayment plan is complete, if a default is registered on your credit file, 
we will update the credit reference agencies to mark the default as satisfied or, if you 
have paid an agreed discounted settlement, the default will be marked as partially 
satisfied.
Please note that, if we have agreed to accept a discounted settlement and you do not 
keep to the payment plan, the full amount outstanding will become due and payable.
This confirms that if the default was still on Miss Bs credit file it would have been recorded 
as partially satisfied. Lowell accepted this partial settlement but, as the letter said, if Miss B 
failed to keep to the plan Lowell would pursue her for the full outstanding balance. So, Im 
satisfied that in making this agreement Lowell had not written off the debt but had simply 
agreed not to pursue Miss B for the full balance, subject to her making the reduced balance 
payments. The debt Miss B has with Lowell does still exist, because it hasnt been paid back 
in full.
There is in law what is called the equitable right to set-off which allows people to set- off 
closely connected debts. For this to apply, I must be satisfied there is a close connection 
between the PPI redress and the outstanding debt. I must also consider whether it would be 
fair for Lowell to set-off in this way. 
In Lowells contact notes from 8 August 2019 when the settlement agreement was arranged 
Miss B made Lowell aware that she was to receive a PPI payment in relation to her S debt. 
And in the account notes I can see S made those funds available to Lowell against the 
outstanding debt by way of buying back the debt, so it provided a link between the debt and 
the PPI redress. Therefore, Im satisfied they are closely connected. 
Miss B has said she feels like she has been hard done by because the PPI redress came 
through only a few hours after the plan was set up. And that all the money has been taken 
by Lowell. She feels she is entitled to that money. I do understand why Miss B believes she 
should be paid the PPI refund.  I also understand that when she made the payment 
arrangement on the much-reduced balance Miss B thought the debt was being completely 
written off but, this was not the case. Lowell had agreed it wouldnt pursue Miss B for the 
debt based on the partial settlement agreement. 
In its final response Lowell said the amount refunded for PPI would be deducted from the 
outstanding balance Miss B owed it. And that this would be the same should the debt be 
owned by S or Lowell. I agree that irrespective of whether it was S or Lowell, I consider it 
reasonable for the PPI refund to be offset against the debt its connected to. And I dont think 
it would be fair to tell Lowell to pay Miss B back the PPI compensation, when Miss B no 
longer has to pay Lowell the monies she borrowed and didnt fully repay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman