DRN-4248624
The complaint
Ms M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined her claim on her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M had home insurance that was underwritten by AXA. She had included cover for a 
specified ring as part of the policy. In March 2022 she had to have the ring cut off after her 
finger became very swollen. The jeweller cut the ring off and resized it. Ms M made a claim 
on her policy.
AXA declined the claim as it said in order to have cover under the accidental damage 
section of the policy, the ring would need to have been damaged due to sudden and 
unforeseen events. However Ms M hadnt known what caused the swelling so it said she 
hadnt shown it was due to a sudden event. It therefore said cover wouldnt apply.
Ms M made a complaint but AXA didnt uphold it. However it offered £150 as it agreed it had 
provided poor service in response to her complaint. Unhappy with this, Ms M brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that while she 
accepted Ms M wouldnt have foreseen that she wouldnt be able to take her ring off her 
finger, she hadnt shown that this was because of a sudden event. So she thought AXA had 
acted fairly by declining the claim.
Ms M didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision that stated as follows:
Ms M has cover for her ring as a specified item on her policy. As outlined on her policy
schedule, the relevant section of the policy for the cover provided for the item is Section 5b 
Specified items Within and Away from the Home.
In this section the policy states as follows:
Under this section of cover, Your policy will cover the following Insured Losses:
 Physical damage
AXA has considered Ms Ms claim under the accidental damage cover of the policy, however
I dont agree this is the section of the policy that applies. Instead it should be considered
under section 5b, as detailed on the policy schedule.
This section covers physical damage to specified items and there is no requirement for the
damage to have been unforeseen or to have happened suddenly.
Ms M has shown that there has been physical damage to the ring. And I can see the ring is
specified on her policy. Therefore I think, when considered under the relevant policy section,
cover should fairly apply without the need for proof that it happened suddenly. I therefore
dont think AXA has acted fairly or reasonably by declining the claim under the accidental
damage cover.
For these reasons, I am minded to require AXA to accept Ms Ms claim under section 5b of
policy cover, and reimburse her for the repair of her ring, in line with the remaining policy
terms and conditions. As Ms M has been without the funds since the repair, it should also
pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date she had it repaired, until AXA pays the
settlement.
Additionally, as it has caused Ms M some distress and inconvenience by incorrectly
declining the claim in the first instance, it should pay her £100 compensation to apologise for
this.
Response to my provisional decision
Ms M responded and accepted my provisional decision. AXA didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite being given ample time to do so, AXA has provided no additional information to 
demonstrate why Ms Ms claim shouldnt be accepted under section 5b of her policy. I 
therefore see no reason to depart from the conclusions laid out in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Ms complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Accept Ms Ms claim and reimburse her for the repair of her ring, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy including any applicable excess.
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount paid from the date Ms M had the ring repaired, 
until the date payment is made.
Pay Ms M £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman