DRN-3996821
The complaint
Mr Y has complained Vodafone Limited has added late payment markers to his credit record 
although he never took out the agreement for a mobile device.
What happened
In July 2021 an order was placed for a mobile device in Mr Ys name and home address. 
The device was delivered to a business address. Vodafone confirmed the order and 
forthcoming direct debits in a letter sent to Mr Ys home address.
In January 2022 Mr Y contacted Vodafone as hed noticed direct debits from his account 
which he didnt recognise. He told them hed not ordered or taken possession of this device. 
He believed this had been ordered by his ex-employer (who Ill call R) but hed left their 
employment in 2020. Mr Y cancelled the direct debit.
As arrears built on this account, Vodafone confirmed they were asking Mr Y to pay these. 
After considering Mr Ys complaint, Vodafone didnt believe there was evidence of fraud.
Mr Y brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator believed this was a 
dispute between Mr Y and R.
Still unhappy, Mr Y asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He also provided a 
letter from R confirming what had happened. They had also paid the arrears due to 
Vodafone.
I completed a provisional decision on 22 February confirming I believed the evidence 
indicated Mr Y hadnt taken out this credit agreement.
Vodafone accepted this outcome as did Mr Y.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
I dont believe Mr Y took out the credit agreement for a mobile device in July 2021. I say this 
because:
The email address attached to the credit agreement is for someone employed by R.
The mobile device was delivered to Rs commercial address.
Vodafones own records show they believed the person ordering the phone and 
passing security in July 2021 was not the voice of Mr Y who called them on 
12 January 2022 complaining about what had happened.
R  and their company secretary  would have had sufficient personal details for 
Mr Y, including his address and bank account details, to set up an agreement in his 
name.
The outstanding arrears in 2022 were confirmed by Vodafone as paid. They wouldnt 
say anything other than it was a business payment. I think its more than likely this 
was R.
Ive seen a letter from R dated 21 November 2022 confirming Mr Y had left their 
employment in 2020 and the device was ordered as an upgrade in July 2021 by their 
company secretary. This letter has been shared with Vodafone.
Im aware Mr Y in all likelihood received a letter from Vodafone confirming the agreement 
had been taken out in July 2021. But I can see that Mr Ys own phone agreement was also 
with Vodafone so hed have been paying direct debits to Vodafone anyway. So I dont 
believe its completely surprising he overlooked this.
I have considered various other scenarios here but dont think they stand up after 
investigation and consideration.
For all these reasons Im satisfied Mr Y didnt take out the credit agreement or received or 
used the mobile device. 
Putting things right
As well as removing this credit agreement from Mr Ys credit record, Vodafone will also need 
to reimburse the payments made from July 2021 to 7 January 2022 along with 8% simple 
interest a year for Mr Y being without the money which was rightly his.
I also note Vodafone has had a few opportunities to realise its error and put things right. 
They noted themselves that voices differed from the time the device was ordered to Mr Y 
complaining. Theyve also been in receipt of Rs letter for a few months. Overall I believe 
they should pay Mr Y an additional £100 in compensation for the trouble theyve caused in 
dragging this out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Vodafone Limited to:
Remove the credit agreement linked to the mobile device ending in 589 from Mr Ys 
credit record;
Repay all money Mr Y paid to Vodafone related to this device;
Add 8% simple interest to those amounts from the dates Mr Y was debited to the 
date of settlement; and
Pay Mr Y £100 for the trouble caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman