DRN-2602146
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the sale of accident, sickness and unemployment cover 
by ActiveQuote Limited.
 What happened
In 2015, ActiveQuote sold Mrs H a policy (that Ill call Policy A). This provided a monthly 
benefit of £2,150 in the event that Mrs H couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The accident and sickness cover had a waiting period of three months, 
and the unemployment cover had a waiting period of six months.
Mrs Hs earnings then rose, and she decided she wanted more cover in the event that 
she couldnt work. She contacted ActiveQuote to arrange top-up cover of £600 per 
month.
In December 2017, ActiveQuote sold Mrs H two further policies. The first one (that Ill call 
Policy B) provided a monthly benefit of £600 in the event that Mrs H couldnt work 
because of short-term accident, sickness or unemployment. This had a day one waiting 
period. The second policy (that Ill call Policy C) provided a monthly benefit of £600 in the 
event that Mrs H couldnt work because of long-term accident or sickness. This had a 52-
week waiting period.
In November 2018, Mrs H stopped work because of ill health. She made a successful 
claim under Policy A. Whilst Mrs H was unable to work because of ill health, she was 
made redundant on 31 July 2019. Mrs H then received a payment in lieu of notice from 
her former employer, and so didnt receive any benefit from the insurer of Policy A during 
that period. She was then fit to return to work, also during that period. Mrs H then made a 
successful unemployment claim under Policy A, which started on 5 October 2019.
The insurer of Policy A made Mrs H aware that the policy included a term which meant her 
benefit payment would be reduced by an amount equal to an alternative source of income. 
Mrs H therefore cancelled Policies B and C in August 2019, because she didnt think she 
could receive any financial benefit from them. She complained to ActiveQuote about the 
sale of those two policies.
ActiveQuote accepted that it shouldve made sure that Policies B and C wouldnt have 
affected the cover Mrs H could receive under Policy A. It offered to return the premiums 
Mrs H had paid for Policies B and C, plus interest. Unhappy with this offer, Mrs H brought 
a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 January 2021. Heres what I said:
Its not in dispute that ActiveQuotes adviser shouldve made sure that benefit paid 
under Policy B or Policy C wouldnt have an impact on any benefit payable under 
Policy A, and didnt do so.
ActiveQuote accepts that Policies B and C were therefore mis-sold, and has offered 
Mrs H a refund of premiums, plus interest. I agree with our investigator that this wouldnt 
place Mrs H back in the position she wouldve been in, if the error hadnt occurred. Thats 
because its apparent that Mrs H wanted total cover of £2,750 per month in the event that 
she couldnt work because of ill health, or unemployment.
Ive listened to the sales call, and I appreciate that Mrs H said she didnt want to cancel 
her existing cover (Policy A) and merely wanted top-up cover. However, she wasnt 
aware that Policy A contained a term which meant that any benefit payment would be 
reduced by payments made under other insurance policies.
Having said that, Policy A included accident and sickness cover, and Mrs H had a 
condition that first started after taking out Policy A.
If ActiveQuote had made Mrs H aware of the relevant term under Policy A that prevented 
her from taking out top-up cover, Mrs H would have had two options. She could have kept 
the accident and sickness cover in place under Policy A, and had cover for her condition 
(even though the monthly benefit was less than she wanted at £2,150). Or she could have 
cancelled Policy A entirely, and taken out a new policy for accident and sickness cover 
that provided her with monthly benefit of £2,750 as she wanted. Though if shed done that, 
then she wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim after stopping work in 
November 2018.
On balance, I think its likely Mrs H would have wanted to keep the accident and 
sickness cover in place under Policy A, but would have been willing to cancel the 
unemployment cover. ActiveQuote could have then arranged for her to take out a new 
unemployment policy, with a monthly benefit of £2,750.
I see that the policy terms for Policy A say that unemployment cover can be cancelled at 
any time, therefore the above approach was possible.
I now need to consider how ActiveQuote ought to put matters right.
Policy A started paying unemployment benefit to Mrs H on 5 October 2019. It provided up 
to 12 months of benefit, and Mrs H remained unemployed for the full 12-month term. The 
insurer for Policy A waived the normal six-month waiting period, because it had made 
payments under a sickness claim prior to Mrs Hs redundancy and Mrs H had already met 
the waiting period for that claim. Whilst ActiveQuote says Mrs H wouldnt have been able 
to claim unemployment benefit until 5 April 2020 if the insurer of Policy A had adhered to 
their policy terms, I note that in fact the insurer did adhere to their policy terms in doing 
so.
If ActiveQuote had arranged alternative unemployment cover for Mrs H with a 12-month 
term and monthly benefit of £2,750 (as I think it ought to have done), I think its likely this 
wouldve started paying benefit on 5 October 2019. I say that because Mrs H received 
payment in lieu of notice before this date from her employer, and the new policy wouldve 
presumably had back to day one cover, as Policy B did.
Mrs H has therefore suffered a financial loss of £7,200 (£600 benefit x 12 months) for the 
12- month period as a result of not having the unemployment cover that she wanted.
ActiveQuote has argued that Mrs H failed to claim under Policy B when she couldve 
(as it also provided short-term accident and sickness benefit) and therefore didnt 
mitigate her losses.
We therefore asked Mrs H to submit a claim to the insurer of Policy B for the relevant period. Mrs H has now done so, and the insurer of Policy B turned down the claim as her 
condition was pre-existing. Mrs H has provided us with confirmation of this from the 
insurer.
I therefore remain satisfied that Mrs Hs financial loss is £7,200 due to the mis-sale.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
Mrs H responded to say that she agreed with my findings. However, she raised concerns 
about the figures ActiveQuote might use to work out the cost of a new unemployment 
policy. She also said there had been no award for the impact the situation has had on 
her, and the length of time she has has to wait for payment. Finally, Mrs H said that by 
ActiveQuote selling her the health cover, she wouldnt have been able to claim under this 
if shed needed to.
ActiveQuote didnt have any further comments to make.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has raised concerns about the figures ActiveQuote might use to work out the cost of 
replacement cover. If Mrs H accepts this decision, then we can ask ActiveQuote for details of 
how it has worked out the cost of the cover, to check that this is fair. 
Whilst I appreciate it has been inconvenient for Mrs H to bring a complaint, I havent seen 
any evidence to support that not having the additional £600 a month as she expected has 
caused her any particular financial difficulties, or has impacted her mental health. I therefore 
dont intend to make an award of additional compensation. I accept it isnt ideal that Mrs H 
has had to wait such a long time for the payment to be made to her, however, the interest 
Ive awarded reflects this. 
Mrs H is correct that she wouldnt have received benefit under Policies B and C (as well as 
Policy A) if she couldnt work because of illness or injury. As I said in my provisional 
decision, I think Mrs H would have kept her accident and sickness cover in place under 
Policy A had she known of the relevant term that prevented her from claiming under other 
policies, and then taken out a new policy for the level of unemployment cover that she 
wanted. The redress Ive set out below therefore takes into account that Policies B and C 
were mis-sold.
Putting things right
ActiveQuote should pay compensation of £7,200 to recognise that it failed to 
arrange unemployment benefit of £2,750 per month, as Mrs H wanted.
It should work out how much Mrs H would have paid for accident and sickness cover only 
under Policy A, and how much she would have paid for unemployment cover of £2,750 
under a new policy. If the total cost of this exceeds what Mrs H actually paid for Policies 
A, B and C, then it will be entitled to deduct the additional cost from the settlement. 
Interest should then be added to the settlement at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the dates the additional £600 per month should have been paid over the relevant 12-
month period to the date of settlement.
However, if the total cost of the appropriate cover (as Ive set out above) is less than what Mrs H paid for Policies A, B and C, ActiveQuote should refund her the 
overpayments she made. In addition to the interest payable on the settlement (as 
above), it should also pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date 
each overpaid premium was paid to the date of settlement.
If ActiveQuote considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from interest paid, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require ActiveQuote Limited to put things 
right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman