DRN-4073060
The complaint
Mr V, on behalf of R  a limited company, complains about a declined commercial property 
insurance claim made against a policy underwritten by QBE UK Limited (QBE).
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both R and QBE. In my decision, Ill focus 
mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
R had a commercial property insurance policy with QBE. Following a break-in and theft at 
Rs premises in August 2022, R tried to make a claim on their policy. QBE considered the 
claim, but declined it as they said R had failed to comply with the policy requirement to have 
a working alarm set when their premises were closed or unattended. 
R then raised a complaint and as they remained unhappy with QBEs response, they 
referred their complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator 
considered the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. As R remained unhappy, 
the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Its also important to point 
out here that the role of our Service isnt to speculate on the circumstances of the break in 
and theft. Our remit here is simply to consider whether QBE fairly investigated and 
considered the claim before reaching the position theyve taken. 
Have QBE fairly and reasonably considered this claim  in line with the policy terms?
Ive considered the evidence and arguments put forward by both parties in this complaint 
and find that QBE have fairly and reasonably considered this complaint, in line with the 
policy terms.
R says a statement from their employee supports that the alarm was set when they left the 
premises on Saturday 6 August 2022. But the alarm logs show that although the alarm had 
been set on Friday 5 August 2022 and disarmed the next day at the time the employee 
visited  theres no evidence to support that it was armed again when the employee left.
The alarm logs dont record that the alarm wasnt set again when the employee left the 
premises on Saturday 6 August 2022 and its reasonable of QBE to conclude that the alarm 
hadnt been properly set when the employee left the premises. As QBE have outlined in their 
final response letter, there are a number of explanations as to why this may have been the 
case  including the removal of a fuse, presumably by the criminals responsible here. But as 
our Investigator pointed out, the alarm had a backup power supply that wouldve notified the 
alarm company had the employee set it properly.
Im satisfied that QBE remained open minded to all reasonable explanations before reaching 
the position to decline the claim, in line with the relevant policy terms (4.6.2).
For completeness, Ive also considered if there are any other mitigating factors that would 
make the position reached by QBE be unfair. R has argued that even if the alarm had been 
fully operational and set - the theft likely wouldve still happened. Theyve said this because 
the alarm wasnt set up to notify the police, it was only a deterrent and the person likely 
responding to an alarm notification lived over 30 minutes away. 
But on balance, Im not persuaded by these arguments. I say this because I find it more 
likely than not that an alarm initially going off will have either created (notwithstanding the 
location of Rs premises) uncertainty for the criminals  due to the likelihood that someone 
might be responding  either the police, a security company, an alarm company employee or 
an employee of R. It seems reasonable to assume that this could have potentially impacted 
how much time the criminals were prepared to risk spending at Rs premises. Its worth 
noting that the extent of the loss here and damage caused suggests that the criminals spent 
a considerable amount of time at the premises. 
In summary, I find that QBE have fairly and reasonably considered this complaint in line with 
the policy terms and have fairly declined it. Recently R requested that QBE cover 50% of 
their losses. But I wont be directing QBE to do so  as I dont find that theyve acted unfairly 
here. 
My decision will disappoint R, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to 
informally resolve their dispute with QBE.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman