DRN-3548719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund payments he 
made as part of a scam. 
What happened
The payments made in this case were from Mr and Mrs Ms joint account but as Mr M was 
the one involved and who made them Ive mainly referred in my decision to him. 
The facts of this case are well known to all parties, so Ill only cover them briefly. Mr and Mrs 
Ms son, J, was involved in an investment that turned out to be a scam. J asked Mr M for 
funds to increase the investment. The initial payments Mr M made to J arent part of this 
complaint. 
It appeared that J was making a profit, so Mr M suggested he withdraw some funds but at 
this stage the broker/scammer said hed need more money for anti-money laundering 
checks first. Mr M asked another of his sons, who Ill refer to as S, for help. S agreed and 
transferred £37,500 to Mr M just before Mr M made the following transfers from his joint 
account with Mrs M to a cryptocurrency account in his own name.
Date Amount Notes
21/10/20 £5
22/10/20 £12,500 Flagged by Santander and a fraud call took place
22/10/20 £12,500 Flagged by Santander and a fraud call took place
23/10/20 £12,500
Total £37,505
 
The scammer asked Mr M to open the cryptocurrency account in his own name because he 
said that Js wallet had reached its limit. When the scammer asked for more money the 
scam was uncovered and Mr M contacted Santander to report it on 3 November 2020. Hes 
unhappy with Santanders decision not to reimburse and with the service he has been 
provided with. 
Santander considered Mr Ms complaint under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) and didnt uphold it, saying it met the standard expected 
of it, but Mr M hadnt. This was because Mr M had failed to complete adequate checks 
before transferring funds to the scammer. Santander recognised that it gave S incorrect 
information and that there was a delay in contacting the receiving bank that didnt affect any 
possible recovery of funds and paid Mr M £75 compensation. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
noted that the payments Mr M made arent covered by the CRM Code as Mr M made 
payments to an account in his own name. These payments arent covered by the CRM 
Code. The investigator also said that as Mr M isnt clear about whether he was investing 
himself or loaning funds to J to invest, its not even clear hes a victim of a scam. But even if 
Mr M is the victim of a scam, the funds he lost werent his  they were Ss  and in any event 
Santander couldnt prevent Mr M from making the payments. Santander had calls with Mr M 
in which it highlighted multiple red flags and asked Mr M to complete research, but he went 
ahead with the payments and even complained that Santander blocked payments. 
Mr M, through his representative S, didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said:
- The investigator concluded that Santander was at fault but still found in its favour. 
And Santander said Mr M didnt complete any checks, but he has now found out the 
scam broker used the details of a genuine broker. 
- Santander should have noticed an unusual pattern of spending and provided him 
with warnings. 
- When Mr M reported the scam, he was brushed aside. 
The complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that the scam J fell victim to has had a huge impact on the family and am sorry 
this has happened. Whilst I have a lot of sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs M now find 
themselves in, I cant fairly ask Santander to refund them. There are a number of reasons for 
this which Ill discuss below. 
Its not clear whether Mr M was investing himself or lending money to invest. If Mr M was 
lending money, he hasnt been the victim of a scam. But in any event, the funds Mr M used 
in this scam werent his own. Its clear from Mr Ms bank statements that S transferred all the 
funds (except the initial £5) to Mr M before he moved them to his own cryptocurrency 
account. In the circumstances, its not clear whether Mr and Mrs M have been the victims of 
a scam or suffered a loss. Even if they are scam victims though, I dont consider Santander 
should provide them with a refund because I dont think they could have prevented Mr M 
from making the payments.  
Mr M thinks that Santander should have noticed an unusual pattern of spending and 
provided warnings about the payments he was making. In broad terms, the starting position 
in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. But a bank should also be on the lookout for, and help to prevent payments, that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
Having carefully reviewed this complaint Im satisfied that Santander intervened as Id 
expect. There was no reason for Santander to be concerned about the first £5 payment but 
when Mr M made the second payment of £12,500 it was stopped and Santander spoke to Mr 
Ms son (the call doesnt make it clear which son, and it doesnt influence the outcome of the 
complaint, but Im assuming it was J) and Mr M. I havent been provided with a recording of 
the conversation with Mr Ms son, but I have listened to the recording of the subsequent call 
with Mr M.
In this call Santander told Mr M that the previous day hed set up a new payee and made a 
£5 payment, had then received two amounts of £12,500 and was trying to make a £12,500 
payment. The payment had been highlighted as a potential investment and Santander noted 
that in a previous call Mr Ms son said he had completed checks into the company and 
looked at the FCA register, had received a return and was happy with the investment. 
Santander noted that it provided Mr Ms son with advice about cryptocurrency scams and the 
prevalence of them. It also discussed with Mr Ms son what to look out for and advised that 
he should never allow remote access. Mr M was given scam advice in the call, including advice to use a scam check tool and was also advised that once the payment was made it 
couldnt be cancelled, amended or recalled. Mr M chose to go ahead and make the 
payment.
So, Im satisfied that Santander correctly identified the first £12,500 payment as unusual and 
blocked Mr Ms account while it took steps to investigate the payment purpose and provide 
scam advice. In the call when the first £12,500 payment was made Mr M was told that a 
second payment of the same amount that he said he planned to make would be processed. 
But Santander also blocked this payment and spoke to Mr M again. Mr M later raised a 
complaint about this and was awarded compensation.
During the second call with Mr M on 22 October 2020 in respect of the second £12,500 
payment Santander raised concerns about the payment request and also provided further 
scam advice. It advised Mr M that it had seen a lot of scams about cryptocurrency and that 
before the payment could be processed it wanted to make sure Mr M had checked the 
company he was paying and its regulation. Santander went on to advise that investing in 
cryptocurrency was risky and that if Mr M lost his money Santander probably couldnt get it 
back. Importantly, Santander told Mr M that when it checked the account details provided by 
Mr M it found that in the preceding 12 months no other Santander customers had made a 
payment to the beneficiary Mr M asked it to pay which raised concerns. Santander checked 
with Mr M that his son had actually withdrawn returns rather than just seeing them on a 
screen. Mr M was asked if he was certain he wanted to make the payment and he said 
nothing was 100 per cent certain and that hed like the payment to be made. Before 
Santander released the payment, the advisor read Mr M a scam warning.  
Overall, Im persuaded that Santander correctly identified unusual payments and took 
appropriate steps before allowing them to be released. Given the discussions Santander had 
with Mr M when the first two £12,500 payments were made, I dont consider it needed to 
intervene when the third payment of the same amount was made.
I turn now to the service Mr M received. Santander has acknowledged there was a delay in 
taking the correct recovery action and that initially it gave incorrect information to S about 
which bank it had contacted. As a result, Santander has paid Mr M £75 compensation. I 
believe the compensation already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances so Im not 
asking Santander to do anything more. The delay in contacting the receiving bank didnt 
influence the outcome as Mr M sent the funds to his own account and they were removed by 
the time the scam was uncovered. And the £75 already paid fairly compensates Mr M for 
any distress and inconvenience he suffered (rather than S). And I think that with the 
exception of the points Ive made above Santander dealt with the scam claim appropriately 
once the scam was reported.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman