DRN-3087518
The complaint
Miss S complains about the decision of Aviva Insurance Limited to decline her business 
interruption insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Miss S trades as a salon and held an industry specific commercial insurance policy 
underwritten by Aviva. The policy provided a number of areas of cover, including a section 
for loss of income as a result of business interruption. 
Miss S had to close her business in March 2020, in line with the Governments measures to 
control the spread of COVID-19. She contacted Aviva to claim for her losses as a result of 
this. Aviva declined the claim. It said the core cover provided by the business interruption 
section of the policy related to situations of damage, and that COVID-19 had not caused 
damage that had led to Miss Ss business being interrupted. Aviva also said COVID-19 was 
not one of the diseases listed as being covered by the Specified Diseases extension to the 
business interruption section of Miss Ss policy. 
Miss S was unhappy with this outcome and brought a complaint to our service. However, our 
Investigator thought Aviva had applied the terms of the policy correctly to the circumstances 
of the claim. As Miss S remains unsatisfied, her complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Miss S, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand that Miss S closed her business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of her business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover shes looking to claim under is business 
interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Miss S took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Miss Ss policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Miss Ss business.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Miss Ss claim. And I think 
Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Miss Ss claim under this area of cover.
Miss Ss policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides 
cover where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing 
cover in the event of certain diseases.
The Specified Disease extension in Miss Ss policy says cover is provided for, in part:
A Specified Disease occurring at Your Premises or within five miles of the boundary 
of Your Premises
However, the extension goes on to say:
For the purposes of this cover, Specified Disease means any of the following 
diseases contracted by any person
8.8.1 Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chicken pox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Erysipeloid, Legionellosis, Legionnaires, Disease Leprosy, 
Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal 
septicaemia, Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, Puerperal fever, 
Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fevers, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, 
Toxoplasmosis, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral hepatitis, Whooping 
cough, Yellow fever
8.8.2 Viral haemorrhagic fever caused by the following viruses: Lassa virus, Junin 
virus, Machupo virus, Sabia virus, Guanarito virus, Ebola virus, Marburg virus, 
Crimean-Congo, haemorrhagic fever virus, Hanta virus, Rift Valley fever virus, Yellow 
fever virus, Dengue virus.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Miss S with cover for the circumstances of her claim. This is because COVID-19 
isnt one of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Aviva to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
Aviva intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. Aviva deliberately 
chose to define Specified Disease by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy Miss S has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy Miss S has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of Specified Disease in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.Miss Ss claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. 
As cover was not provided under this area of Miss Ss policy for losses resulting from 
business interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Avivas decision to decline the 
claim was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Aviva should have met Miss Ss claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Miss S, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman