DRN-1089975
 
Complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs A took out a credit card in March 1999. She was sold the PPI policy in connection with 
this card.
The policy would have cost no more than 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance 
and would have paid 10% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs A was off work sick or 
lost her job for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs As complaint should be upheld. Mrs A didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs A was eligible for the policy. Given Mrs As age and 
employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied she would have been eligible.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mrs A that the PPI was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs A says the PPI was added without her 
knowledge and she wouldnt have agreed to take it out. She says she wouldnt have added 
on an extra monthly charge because of her financial circumstances.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and unfortunately Lloyds no longer 
have the documents from the time of the sale. However, this is understandable given the 
length of time since the sale. So Ive thought about what Mrs A and Lloyds have told us and 
considered the information I do have available in order to help me decide what is more likely 
to have happened during the sale.
Although Lloyds cant confirm what method was used to sell PPI, they have provided us with 
a sample document from the time of the sale which shows that it would have been made 
clear that PPI was optional. And it looks like PPI would only have been applied to the 
account if it had been selected. So there is some evidence available to me which shows that 
policies were presented as optional at this time and would have required the consumer's 
consent.So while I appreciate what Mrs A has told us, its not sufficient to persuade me that its more 
likely that on this particular occasion Lloyds didnt present the policy as optional or didnt get 
Mrs As consent before applying it to the account.
As mentioned above, Lloyds dont know which sales method was used to sell Mrs A PPI. So 
in fairness to Mrs A they have defaulted to what is referred to as an advised sale. This 
means Lloyds would have had the extra responsibility of taking reasonable steps to ensure 
the PPI was suitable for Mrs A.  I dont know if they took all the steps that they should have 
but based on the information I have, I think the PPI was suitable for Mrs A. I say this 
because:
 
The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs As sick pay and would have done so 
for a much longer period of time.
 
Mrs A didnt appear to have been affected by the main restrictions and exclusions in 
the policy such that it wouldve been difficult for her to make a successful claim under 
the policy. For example, those relating to certain medical conditions and working 
arrangements. 
 
I appreciate what Mrs A has told us about her financial difficulties at the time of the 
sale. However, I have already found that Mrs A opted to take PPI and I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to conclude that the cost of the PPI itself made the policy 
unsuitable for Mrs A. 
 
Mrs A couldve cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
 
As well as checking the PPI was suitable for Mrs A, Lloyds also had to give Mrs A clear 
enough information so that she could decide for herself if the PPI was right for her. In 
particular this would have been important information about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs A wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But this 
in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put Mrs A off taking the PPI out.
And I dont think better information wouldve put Mrs A off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was right for her.
So I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mrs A this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs As complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman