DRN-3695225
The complaint
Mrs T complains about Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) in respect of the transfer 
of her defined benefit (DB) pension scheme benefits to a personal pension arrangement. 
She says these benefits are not worth what she was told they would be at the time of 
transfer. In particular she says that the pension will not provide anything more than her 
entitlement to a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). She was told she would get more than 
this. 
Mrs T also says the information she has been provided over time has been misleading. And 
she was told she would not be disadvantaged if she carried on working after her normal 
retirement date, but this wasnt correct. 
What happened
Mrs T has a Phoenix Life pension product. The policy was started in 1987 by business called 
London Life but Phoenix is now responsible for it. It is a Section 32 buy out (S32) policy 
which was used to accept a transfer of some preserved DB scheme benefits Mrs T had. This 
was an individual arrangement which is similar to a personal pension. Mrs T gave up her DB 
scheme benefits when this transfer was made. 
Mrs T transferred her entitlement to a GMP into the plan. This part of the transfer was 
guaranteed to provide a pension of £6,211.27 per year at age 60. The total transfer amount 
was invested in the with-profits fund. 
At the time of transfer Mrs T says she was told that only a small proportion of the fund would 
be used to provide the GMP benefits. And the remainder could be used to provide additional 
pension benefits. And, at the time, this was correct. But going forward the cost to provide the 
GMP benefits has risen and investment performance has been lower than expected. So, Mrs 
T will now only receive the GMP. 
In 2014 Mrs T contacted Phoenix as she was nearing her retirement age. After receiving 
some information from Phoenix she decided to defer taking a pension from the fund. 
Mrs T complained in 2021 to Phoenix about the suitability of the transfer advice and the 
subsequent information that she received from Phoenix. She said that:
She was told at the point of sale that she would receive the same benefits as the DB 
scheme. This hasnt happened. 
The information she has received from Phoenix about her retirement options has 
been inconsistent and contradictory. 
She is unable to withdraw the fund as cash or use it to start a drawdown policy. 
Phoenix partly upheld Mrs Ts complaint. It initially provided some further information about 
how her policy worked and how it was started. It also said (over a number of letters) that:
It agreed that it hadnt properly looked at Mrs Ts complaint in the first instance and 
that some of the information provided about her benefits was inconsistent. It offered 
compensation of £350 for this. 
It acknowledged that the performance of the policy may not be what Mrs T was 
expecting at outset. And, as the GMP element is now taking up a large amount of 
the fund value it is unlikely to provide more than this. 
It is not legally possible for the GMP pension provision to be taken as a cash lump 
sum
Phoenix does not offer a drawdown arrangement for this type of policy. 
Mrs T referred her complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that: 
London Life didnt advise Mrs T to start the policy. London Life had contact with the 
trustees of the DB scheme before the plan was started, rather than Mrs T, and it was 
the product provider in this case. 
The cost to provide the GMP element of the transfer has increased but this was due 
to how the fund had performed. This was always a risk with the transfer. 
The £350 compensation offered by Phoenix was reasonable for not considering all of 
the points of her complaint and providing conflicting information at times. 
Mrs T disagreed, saying that:
She received advice from London Life to start the plan at the outset. It was an 
employee of London Life who recommended and advised on this policy. The DB 
scheme trustees didnt provide advice. 
Was not made aware of the possibility that non-GMP part of the fund could be used 
to support the GMP if there was a shortfall.
The policy is not how it was explained to her by London Life. 
She has been misled by Phoenix Life about several aspects of the policy, for 
example she was told that she would not be disadvantaged by deferring her pension, 
but this is not the case. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
Did London Life advise Mrs T to start this policy? Mrs T says that she was advised by London Life to make the DB transfer. She says that she 
initiated this process and it was done entirely through her. Phoenix says that London Life 
had a relationship with the trustees of the DB scheme rather than with Mrs T. 
As this sale took place a very long time ago the evidence from the time of sale is sparse. 
Phoenix does not now have all of the point of sale documentation, and neither does Mrs T. 
This isnt unreasonable given this passage of time. But Ive looked to see whether what we 
do have provides any clarity about who, if anyone, advised Mrs T.
The point of sale documentation shows that Mrs T was informed of her pension options by 
the trustee of the DB scheme. The application form is a trustee proposal and I understand it 
was largely completed by the trustees of the scheme rather than Mrs T. This does suggest a 
transfer process taking place between London Life and the trustees of the DB scheme, 
rather than London Life giving advice to Mrs T. 
Added to this there isnt any evidence from this time that shows Mrs T had significant contact 
with London Life before the plan started. There is no documentation that shows Mrs T was 
given any form of financial advice by London Life. For example, there are no suitability 
letters, or other documents, that detail this. 
The pension was purchased by the trustees of the DB originating scheme on Mrs Ts behalf.  
And as far as I can see they were the customers of London Life rather than Mrs T. So, I think 
it is reasonable to say that the evidence from the time of the sale doesnt show that Mrs T 
was advised by London Life. Its not clear if the trustees fully advised her, but this isnt really 
relevant in a complaint about London Life.
I have taken on board that Mrs T says she was advised by London Life. It is reasonable to 
say she had some contact with this business at the time of the transfer, but without further 
evidence or information that shows she was given advice to transfer by it, Im not upholding 
her complaint on this basis.  
A large part of Mrs Ts dissatisfaction with the policy is that it has not performed as expected. 
She says she was told that she would receive the same benefits as the DB scheme when 
she transferred and there was a chance of receiving more than this. It is the case that when 
Mrs T transferred away the DB scheme benefits the only guarantee she had was the GMP. 
Any pension above this was subject to investment performance and so was not guaranteed. 
There was a risk that she would ultimately receive less than the DB scheme if she made the 
transfer. Mrs T says this isnt right for her now. 
But I would only be able to say that Phoenix was responsible for this if London Life had 
advised her to make the transfer. And, as Ive outlined above, I dont have enough to be able 
to say this was likely to be the case.  
Has the policy been administered correctly?
The S32 policy was set up to ensure that Mrs T would receive her GMP benefits and these 
were guaranteed. But the transferred out fund value was invested and so anything above 
this was not guaranteed and was subject to the performance of the fund it is invested in. The 
plan wasnt set up so that the proportion of the fund used to provide the GMP would remain 
the same as at outset. It was always a risk that (even if this risk seemed remote at the time 
of sale) the plan would only provide the GMP. 
As is now clear the investment performance, and the increasing cost of providing the GMP 
benefits, has led to the situation where plan will only provide the GMP. But this is a function 
of how the S32 plan works. It wasnt set up to replicate the benefits of the DB scheme in its entirety. So, I havent seen anything that leads me to conclude Phoenix has not administered 
the personal arrangement correctly, when this hasnt happened. 
Mrs T has been told that she cannot take the funds as cash. But it is correct that this is not 
currently allowed with this type of transfer and policy.  
Did Phoenix provide misleading information?
Mrs T has said that some of the information she has been provided was incorrect and 
misleading. In particularly she says that her decision not to take the benefits from the S32 
policy at age 60 was, in part, based on information she received from Phoenix that it 
wouldnt disadvantage her if she did this. 
Ive looked at the information from the time and I can see that Mrs T did have some contact 
with Phoenix about this. The information she was given centred on how the GMP would be 
revalued. I cant see any reference to whether or not taking the benefits would be in Mrs Ts 
best interests, or if would disadvantage her or not. So, Im not persuaded she was misled at 
this time. 
Phoenix has said that some of the information it provided about the pension could be 
considered to be contradictory. Some of the information it has provided relates to pensions 
more generally, such as about taking cash from a pension, or using a draw down plan, which 
Mrs T cant do here. This general, rather than specific, information could be considered 
misleading. 
I agree that this could be the case, and I can see that Phoenix has upheld this part of Mrs 
Ts complaint and offered compensation. I think this compensation is reasonable for these 
errors. 
Did Phoenix look at Mrs Ts complaint reasonably?
Phoenix has also agreed that that is should have responded quicker, and in more detail, to 
Mrs Ts first complaint. Again, I agree with this, but I think the compensation it has already 
offered to put this right is fair. 
Putting things right. 
If Mrs T accepts this decision then Phoenix should pay her £350. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint. If Mrs T accepts my decision then Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited should pay her the £350 compensation it has already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman