DRN-4098265
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a lifetime mortgage he has and which was arranged by 
Responsible Life Limited. He is unhappy with the service he received from Responsible Life 
in that it didnt advise him or his solicitors of the date the mortgage offer would expire. Nor 
did it advise him to pull out of the arrangement when it realised he wouldnt be able to 
complete before that happened. This resulted in him paying a higher rate of interest.
What happened
Mr M initially approached Responsible Life for advice in early 2021. The initial application 
made to Lender R at that time was withdrawn because the valuation on the property came 
back as insufficient to allow the amount of equity release he required. A further application 
was made in December 2021 and a mortgage offer was issued by Lender R on 20 January 
2022. The mortgage offer detailed an annual interest rate of 3.57%. The offer document said 
that it was valid until 3 March 2022 and the covering letter stated that when Lender R had 
confirmation from its solicitors that all necessary documentation had been received, a 
completion date would be set - usually 14 days after the last of the documentation had been 
received. There were various conditions associated with the offer that Mr M and his solicitor 
had to comply with before the mortgage could complete. 
Following the mortgage offer being issued, Responsible Life made Mr M aware of a rate 
lower that could be attached to his mortgage application  3.51%. However, he was made 
aware that if he asked for that rate, it was only available for 42 days and the offer would not 
be extendable, unlike the original rate agreed. It was highlighted that whether the mortgage 
could complete within the 42 days was dependent on Mr Ms solicitors being able to 
complete all of the legal requirements and offer conditions in time.  Mr M opted for the lower 
rate and a new mortgage offer was issued on 2 February 2022. The information about 
setting a completion date was repeated and it was also clearly set out in bold in the first 
section of the offer:
The terms of this offer are valid until 16 March 2022
While most of the information needed by Lender R was received on or before the date the 
mortgage offer expired, the buildings insurance policy that had been arranged for the 
property was not acceptable to it as the sum assured was lower than it needed to be. As 
such, completion could not take place. Mr M amended the details of the insurance policy and 
provided the new schedule to Lender R at the beginning of April 2022. 
A new mortgage offer was issued to Mr M on 25 March 2022 with an annual interest rate of 
4.11%. This was replaced on 6 April 2022 with one using an interest rate of 4.03%. The 
latter offer was valid until 18 May 2022.
Mr M complained to Responsible Life and it responded in a letter of 15 June 2022. It set out 
what had happened and concluded that it was not responsible for the February 2022 
mortgage offer expiring before Mr M was able to complete. 
Further correspondence was exchanged between Mr M and Responsible Life. However, the 
responses received didnt satisfy Mr M and he referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She was satisfied that the mortgage offer of 2 February 2022 made it clear that it 
was only valid until 16 March 2022 and that Responsible Life had made Mr M aware of this, 
and brought to his attention the possible consequences of not meeting the deadline. The 
investigator didnt think that the deadline not being met was due to an error on the part of 
Responsible Life.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that Responsible Life had told him 
that the buildings insurance policy wouldnt be an issue until after the mortgage had 
completed. Mr M provided an email from Responsible Life which confirmed that the need for 
Lender Rs interest in the buildings insurance policy to be registered with the insurer, would 
only come into effect after the mortgage had completed. In addition, Mr M said the policy 
was amended on the day the issue was raised. He considered the investigators conclusions 
were fundamentally incorrect.
Our investigator considered what Mr M had said, but she was not persuaded to change her 
conclusions. She explained that the inadequacy of the buildings insurance policy and 
registering the lenders interest in it were different things. She wasnt persuaded to change 
her conclusions. 
Mr M went on to say that he and his solicitors made it clear that they would not be able to 
provide Lender R with the information it required by 16 March 2022, let alone ten days 
before that to allow the funds to be released by then. As such, he considers that it was 
Responsible Lifes responsibility to confirm that the deadline would be missed and to offer 
him an alternative rate. As it did not do so, Mr M considers it was negligent, and this resulted 
in him having to pay a higher interest rate than he otherwise would have. Mr M commented 
on the timescales for submission of documentation to Lender R, and concluded that if it was 
16 March 2022, it had been met. He considered that the amendment to the sum assured on 
the insurance policy was a trivial and inconsequential matter which should have no bearing 
on this complaint.
Further correspondence was exchanged, and our investigator issued a further view on the 
complaint. She remained satisfied that the expiry date of the March 2022 offer had clearly 
been documented and that Responsible Life had highlighted that it could not be extended 
before Mr M decided on that rate. The investigator explained that while information may 
have been with Lender Rs solicitor on the day the offer expired, the solicitors would need 
time to review the documentation and ensure that everything had been provided and was in 
order. It would only be after that had been done that the lender would be able to advance the 
mortgage funds. She highlighted that Mr Ms solicitors would have understood the process 
involved.
The investigator also highlighted that the email Mr M had provided related to a different 
matter regarding the buildings insurance policy to the one that had been an issue in 
March 2022. The email related to the lenders interest in the policy being registered with the 
insurer and confirmed this could be done after completion. However, the issue with the 
insurance policy in March 2022 related to its adequacy to protect the property. 
The investigator remained satisfied that Mr M and his solicitors knew about the expiry date of 
the March 2022 mortgage offer and that it was not Responsible Lifes fault the mortgage 
didnt complete in time. Mr M remained dissatisfied with the investigators conclusions and following further 
correspondence, it was decided that the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman for      
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would confirm at this point that this decision will not comment on the actions of Lender R, 
its solicitors or Mr Ms solicitors, and should not be taken to indicate any errors were made 
on any of those businesses parts. 
I believe that it would firstly be appropriate to set out the roles of the parties involved in this 
matter. Responsible Life is the mortgage broker that provided advice to Mr M and 
recommended the mortgage with Lender R. The brokers role is predominantly fulfilled at the 
beginning of the mortgage process  it assesses the customers situation and needs, and 
then makes a suitable recommendation. If the customer accepts that recommendation the 
broker will submit an application and assist with any questions either party has during the 
underwriting process and provision of information to the lender. Once the lender has 
accepted an application and issued a mortgage offer, the broker will check the basic details 
of the offer against the mortgage that was requested. 
If all is in order and the customer wants to accept the offer, the customers solicitors will 
become involved. The broker will usually have little to do with the process after the offer has 
been accepted. The solicitors will be responsible for ensuring that the relevant 
documentation needed for the advance to be made is obtained/completed and provided to 
the lenders solicitors. It would be for the customers solicitors to explain to its customer what 
they and it needed to do in order for the advance to be made, along with the timescales for 
when any actions needed to be completed. This would include factoring in the time the 
lenders solicitors would need to check the documentation provided and for the lender to 
arrange to advance the mortgage funds by the expiry date at the latest.
If an extension to a mortgage offer needs to be arranged, it would often be the customers 
solicitor that would do this too. It would only be if the offer couldnt be extended and, 
therefore, changes needed to be made to the application that the broker would then step 
back in and have primary responsibility for making the new arrangements. That is what 
happened in Mr Ms case when a new offer on a different rate needed to be sorted out. Once 
the new offer was accepted, again the broker would step back, and the customers solicitors 
would take control of the process again.
Mr M has said that he and his solicitors were not made aware of the timescales relating to 
the mortgage offer and provision of information to Lender Rs solicitors. I cant agree with 
Mr M on this point. The mortgage offer clearly set out that it would expire on 16 March 2022 
and explained that completion would normally be set 14 days after it had been confirmed 
that all the necessary documentation had been received.
Responsible Life had made Mr M aware before the application was altered that an offer for 
the lower rate could not be extended. As such, Responsible Life highlighted to Mr M that his 
solicitors would need to be satisfied that it could provide all of the necessary documentation, 
including complying with the special conditions, in time. Responsible Life wouldnt know 
whether that could be done, and it was not its responsibility to establish whether it could.  
I am satisfied that Mr M had all the information I would have expected Responsible Life to 
provide in relation to the February 2022 mortgage offer. As for the matter of the buildings insurance policy, I would confirm that all lenders require a 
buildings insurance policy, with a sum assured sufficient to rebuild the property in full, is in 
place at completion of a mortgage. If the mortgage relates to a purchase, the policy has to 
be in place by the time contracts are exchanged. Mr M has explained to us that when 
Lender Rs solicitors reviewed the policy document it concluded that the sum assured was 
lower than the lender required. In other words, the insurance policy was inadequate for the 
purposes of the lender. This meant that the mortgage conditions hadnt been met, and until 
they were, the mortgage couldnt complete. 
I have reviewed the email that Mr M has provided from Responsible Life about the insurance 
policy. It relates to a completely different issue from the one that meant the policy was no 
acceptable to the lender. The email doesnt say that the policy didnt need to be in place and 
for an adequate sum insured before the mortgage completed. Rather it related to Lender Rs 
interest in the policy. Some lenders want their interest in a buildings policy registered with 
the insurer. This means that the lender would be kept up to date with the details of the 
policy, and would be told if, for example, the policy was cancelled. The email said the 
lenders interest could be sorted out after completion. Again, I dont think Responsible Life 
provided incorrect or misleading information to Mr M in relation to the insurance policy. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that Responsible Life can be found to have been the cause of 
Mr Ms mortgage not completing before the February 2022 mortgage offer expired. In 
addition, I dont think that the information it provided was inadequate or that it didnt fulfil its 
part of the mortgage process adequately. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
10 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman