DRN-3988715
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) decision to decline their claim for
storm damage, having initially accepted it, under their home buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B say that during high winds in November 2021 a roof ridge tile was
dismantled. They say this was replaced in December. The roof was checked over by a
roofer to see if there as any disrepair or deterioration. At the end of January 2021 Mr and
Mrs B say high winds dislodged several ridge tiles and moved some of the roof tiles at the
rear of their property.
Mr and Mrs B say one of the ridge tiles fell off the roof damaging a metal gazebo. They
contacted QIC and were told they could claim for both the roof and the gazebo. QIC
arranged a survey of the damage in mid-February 2022. Following this it offered to settle the
claim with a payment of £400.
Mr and Mrs B obtained an estimate for the roof repairs. They say the work would cost at
least £1,000. Because of this they instructed QIC to carry out the repairs. At the end of
February 2022, they were told that the gazebo was considered to be contents out in the
open and wasnt covered under their policy. Mr and Mrs B say QIC sent a contractor to visit
at the beginning of March. It then told them in mid-March that it would make contact again
once it had reviewed the contractors report.
Mr and Mrs B chased QIC for an update at the beginning of June 2022. They received a call
in mid-June telling them their claim was now being declined. This was followed up with a
written response about a week later. The letter explained that Mr and Mrs Bs claim had
been reviewed by QICs in-house surveying team. It says although there were strong winds
at the time of the damage, an examination of the photos its field team had taken showed
deterioration of the mortar bedding under the ridge tiles.
QIC says this deterioration is something that has happened gradually over time due to
cyclical exposure to the elements and the freeze/thaw effect. It points to its policy terms that
exclude damage caused in this way.
QIC offered Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation because of the delay in confirming its decline
decision. They complained, but QIC didnt change its decision. Because they disagreed with
QICs decision Mr and Mrs B decided to refer the matter to our service. Our investigator
upheld their complaint. She didnt think the quality of the zoomed-in photos QIC had referred
to was clear enough to make the determination it had. She says the lifted tile QIC highlighted
was still attached to the roof, so it was fair to say there was still mortar in place holding it on.
Our investigator also points out that the photos were taken after the storm. She thought the
gaps between the ridge tiles and mortar that QIC highlighted, couldve been due to
movement caused by the strong winds. She points to the field surveyors report that refers to
the property as in a fair state of repair. Excluding the recent roof damage, she thought this
was a reasonable assessment.
The investigator also highlights the repairs carried out to Mr and Mrs Bs roof in December
2021. She says the roof was checked for signs of deterioration, and it was reported to be in
a sound condition. She thought it unlikely that significant wear and tear had occurred
between this time and the time of the damage.
Our investigator didnt think QICs in-house surveying teams opinion should carry more
weight than the field surveyor. She says the field surveyor is the one who actually attended
the property. Because of this she thought the field surveyors opinion was more persuasive.
Our investigator says QIC should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and
conditions and pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation for the inconvenience it caused them.
QIC disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold this complaint in part. I understand this will be a
disappointment for Mr and Mrs B. But I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether a claim for
damage relates to a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
QIC doesnt dispute that storm conditions were experienced at the time of Mr and Mrs Bs
loss. Ive seen the weather report it provided which shows wind speeds in excess of the
definition contained in its policy wording. Im satisfied there were storm conditions and so I
can move on to the second question.
The damage reported was to ridge and roof tiles that had been blown off or dislodged by the
storm force winds. One of the tiles had landed on a metal gazebo in the back garden.
I think roof tiles that have been blown off by strong winds can be considered typical of
damage caused by a storm. So, the answer to question two is also yes. Again, this point isnt
disputed by QIC.
The final point I must be satisfied with, is that the storm conditions were the main cause of
the damage. To understand whether this was the case Ive read the report provided by QICs
field surveyor. This says:
the main roof was missing 10 ridge tiles to the rear hip area and several plain tiles were out
of alignment and sitting high due to wind moving them, an access tower is required toreplace the ridge tiles and refit the tiles. the fallen tiles damaged a metal framed gazebo
which is beyond repair and requires a replacement.
The surveyor estimated the damage repair costs to be £485.08.
Ive also read the report provided by QICs in-house surveying team. This says:
Reviewed the claim from images available and it is clear to see that the ridge tile bedding
mortar has gradually deteriorated. This damage has occurred due to the cyclical exposure of
the elements and the resulting freeze/thaw effect. This is where moisture get into a defect in
the mortar. This moisture then freezes, causing the defect to get bigger and the bond to brick
to breakdown. This repeatedly occurs over the years until the mortar reaches the end of its
serviceable life. This is excluded both in the general exclusions for gradual deterioration and
the storm exclusion for something that has happened gradually.
In addition, Ive looked carefully at the photos taken by the field surveyor, including the
magnified sections highlighted by QIC.
Im not a surveyor and must rely on the expert opinion of those who are. The in-house
surveying team provides a detailed account of the de-bonding effect between the tiles and
mortar. It points to a gap that can be seen on the photos between the ridge tiles and the
mortar. This can clearly be seen on the photos provided. It also points to a remaining ridge
tile that has de-bonded from the mortar. I can from this photo that although the ridge tile is
still partially attached to the roof, there are large sections of mortar missing where QIC states
the de-bonding effect has occurred. Most of the ridge tiles on this section of the roof are
missing in the photo. Mortar can be seen still in place on the ridge where the tiles have come
away.
Having considered both of the reports and the photos provided, Im more persuaded that the
underlying cause of the damage is due to gradual deterioration of the mortar overtime. I
dont dispute that the strong winds caused the ridge and roof tiles to become dislodged, and
some to be blown off the roof. But a well-maintained roof, in good condition, should be able
to withstand storm force winds, such as that Mr and Mrs B experienced. I think QICs view
that the tiles had de-bonded from the mortar allowing the wind to lift them off the roof, is what
most likely happened here.
I note Mr and Mrs Bs reference to a roofer having checked their roof prior to the damage
occurring. However, QICs surveying team has highlighted areas where the mortar isnt in a
good condition. So, although I acknowledge their comments, Im not persuaded that this
shows the surveying teams assessment is inaccurate.
I think its reasonably been shown that the storm force winds have acted to reveal the
deteriorated state of the mortar. But the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy terms say:
Storm: We dont cover:  anything that happens gradually.
And under General Exclusions the terms say:
We dont cover the following: Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
I think the terms are clear that gradual causes are excluded from cover. Based on this
evidence Im satisfied QIC fairly declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the reasons it gave.
Ive also thought about the damage caused to Mr and Mrs Bs gazebo by the roof tile. Theyhave accidental damage cover, which on the face of it would seem to include the damage
caused here. However, QIC says the damage is excluded as the gazebo is considered to be
contents out in the open. Ive looked at what the policy terms say. Under the contents
section it states no cover is provided for contents in the open.
Ive checked whether Mr and Mrs Bs gazebo should be considered under the buildings
cover provided by the policy. I dont think it should. The policy provides a list of structures
that are covered. A gazebo isnt one of these, and from what Ive seen I dont think it meets
with the definition of a permanent structure.
Having considered all of this I dont think it was unfair for QIC to decline Mr and Mrs Bs
claim. But it did take over four months to confirm its decision having initially told them their
claim had been accepted. This was clearly distressing for Mr and Mrs B as well as
inconvenient. Ive not seen a reasonable explanation why it took so long to review the field
surveyors initial findings.
In these circumstances I think its fair that QIC pays Mr and Mrs B compensation. I agree
with our investigators findings that £250 is reasonable.
I said I was intending to partially uphold this complaint and QIC should:
- pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
QIC responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is tat QIC 
Europe Ltd should:
- pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman