DRN-3107862
The complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In August 2016, Mr S acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. 
The total repayable under the agreement was £32,019.03. Mr S was required to make 47 
monthly payments of £424.77 and there was a final optional payment of £11,304.84 if he 
wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr S had the right to terminate the agreement at any time before 
the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£16,009.52.
In September 2019, Mr S voluntarily terminated the agreement and returned the car. But he 
says that shortly afterwards, BMWFS told him hed need to pay an excess mileage charge of 
£2,952.88 because hed exceeded the mileage allowance by 31,403 miles.
The agreement set out that Mr S had an annual mileage allowance of 16,000 miles and a 
total mileage allowance of 69,832 miles. It was a used car with mileage of 5,832 miles when 
Mr S acquired it  so his personal total mileage allowance was 64,000 miles. The agreement 
said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS could charge him 10.82 pence for every 
mile that he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the event he terminated the 
agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the time the car was on hire.
Mr S doesnt think an excess mileage charge is due. He says the hire purchase agreement 
limits his liability to one half of the total price payable - £16,009.52  and he cant be 
compelled to pay anymore to BMWFS.
BMWFS rejected this complaint. It said the charges for excess mileage were set out in the 
finance agreement Mr S signed in August 2016. And it said that the voluntary termination 
information clearly set out that mileage would be pro-rated if the agreement ends early.
BMWFS told us mileage limitation is a fair measure of what would constitute reasonable 
care of the Vehicle given that it can affect its value upon resale. It said that exceeding the 
Maximum Total Mileage agreed upon commencement of the Agreement, is likely to have 
caused the Vehicle to have decreased in value more than it otherwise might have done had 
the agreed mileage been adhered to and because of this it should be compensated 
accordingly. It said it was confident that it hadnt acted incorrectly and that its charge was an 
accurate reflection of the additional mileage incurred.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also found that the 
terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of an excess mileage charge being 
payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination. 
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable under 
the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are payable 
as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr S agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Ss accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount for excess mileage.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
When considering all the terms of the agreement as a whole, he was satisfied it was 
made clear and not misleading about when an excess mileage charge could be 
applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was fair and reasonable for 
BMWFS to charge the additional amount. 
Mr S disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement 
allowed Mr S use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£11,304.84. While Mr S was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain 
conditions, such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum 
mileage each year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mr S not meet those requirements.
Mr S exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more. But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges are due. 
In this case Mr S disputes the excess mileage charge of £2,952.88 that he has been asked 
to pay. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mr Ss hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination. Various 
sections of the agreement Mr S had with BMWFS also referred to the liability on early 
termination, including where excess mileage, damage charges or other charges may 
increase the final liability.
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what I 
have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for 
excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary 
termination? In Mr Ss specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means is that Mr S is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these 
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr S hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage 
Charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and that charges will apply if that 
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance 
will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that Your obligation to pay any Excess 
Mileage Charge will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Mr S agreement 
is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a sectioned headed Termination: Your Rights. This section 
contains specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in 
summary sets out that so long as Mr S has paid at least half the total amount payable under 
the agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts 
with the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for 
exceeding the mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains 
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary 
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr S.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr S is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.
I should point out that Mr Ss excess mileage charge should, in fact be greater. The hire 
purchase agreement he signed in August 2016 set the excess mileage charge at 10.82 
pence per mile. In all the correspondence between Mr S and BMWFS since the right to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement was exercised, the calculations have been based on the 
lower figure of just over 9 pence per mile. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for BMWFS to recalculate the excess mileage charges after everything that has happened, but 
Mr S should note that hes benefitted here by nearly £500.
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman