DRN-2063015
The complaint
Mr H complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral):
failed properly to value his van after it was stolen and he claimed on his motor 
insurance policy with Admiral; and
was slow in responding to and dealing with his claim.
What happened
On 21 September 2019, Mr H suffered a burglary at his home. In the course of this his van 
was stolen, and hasnt been recovered. So Mr H claimed on his Admiral policy.
Admiral investigated and accepted his claim. On 15 October 2019, Admiral offered Mr H a 
market valuation of his van of £6,092.40, less his policy excess and outstanding premium. It 
said this was the top book value quoted by one of the two trade guides that it used.
 
Mr H complained about this figure. He quoted adverts for comparable vans which he said 
showed it would cost him some £2,000 more than this to replace his van. However, Admiral 
wouldnt increase its figure. So he complained to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that under 
the policy Admiral was required to pay Mr H the market value of the van immediately before 
the loss. To assist in assessing this he had consulted three motor trade guides which 
produced the following results:
Guide A - £4,825.00
Guide B - £5,825.00
Guide C - £7,436.00
He said that where one valuation was abnormally higher or lower than the others, our 
practice was to remove it. Doing this in respect of the Guide C figure, and calculating the 
average of the remaining two figures, produced a market value of £5,325.00. Even taking an 
average of all three figures only produced a market value of £6,028.67.
Admiral had offered to pay Mr H £6,092.40, which was within the motor trade guide range 
that we thought was fair.
The investigator said he had taken account of the adverts Mr H had produced, and the 
figures quoted in them. However, adverts represented prices that a seller was looking to 
achieve, and we didnt consider them as accurate as the trade guides unless there were 
special reasons  for example if the vehicle was a classic or rare model  which didnt apply 
here.
So in this case he didnt think Admiral had acted unfairly in basing its valuation on guide 
figures.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that:
he thought the adverts he had provided didnt represent unreasonable prices and 
should have been considered;
he thought he would have to add some £4,000 or £5,000 to Admirals settlement 
figure to be able to buy a comparable replacement van; and
he was disappointed that we hadnt taken into account Admirals dreadfully poor 
response times and abject administration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked the investigator to check the figures for the motor trade guides, as the figures he had 
quoted previously were slightly out of line with the figures Admiral had quoted. The corrected 
figures he has found for the market value of the van at the date of loss, inclusive of vat, are:
Guide A - £5,790.00
Guide B - £6,092.40
Guide C - £7,092.00
The above figures for Guide A and Guide B are exactly the same as Admiral obtained and 
relied on. Admiral didnt consult Guide C. The above figure for Guide C is lower than the 
figure the investigator found previously.
I accept that the adverts Mr H produced represented actual vans for sale. However, for the 
reasons the investigator explained, we consider the valuations the trade guides produce to 
be the best evidence of a vehicles market value at a particular time unless there are 
exceptional circumstances, which wasnt the case here.
It isnt our role to say exactly what the market value of the van was when it was stolen, but 
whether the view of its value that Admiral came to was reasonable in all the circumstances. 
The value Admiral has applied is within the range of values we have found. So like the 
investigator, I cant say that Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying this 
value.
I have looked at whether Admiral was slow in dealing with, and paying out the claim. Admiral 
investigated the claim, discussed a settlement figure with Mr H, made its final offer, and 
issued a response to his complaint, all within a month of the loss of the van. I dont think this 
amounted to unreasonable delay.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 Lennox Towers
Ombudsman