DRN-2902036
The complaint
Ms A complains about Allay Claims Limited and their failure to submit her claim before the 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) deadline.
What happened
In August 2019 shortly before the deadline for making mis-sold PPI claims, Ms A instructed 
Allay to act on her behalf. On several occasions Ms A asked Allay for an update on the 
progress of her PPI claim. She said she was told they were still awaiting a response from her 
lender. And that this could take some time due to the volume of claims that had been 
received at the time the deadline was reached.
But Ms A was later told that her claim hadnt been submitted to her lender before the 
deadline. Allay apologised for the error and offered Ms A £200 in compensation.
Ms A wasnt happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator agreed Allay had made an error. He said there wasnt any way to know the 
financial impact this would have had on Ms A as it would remain unknown whether she was 
due any PPI redress or not. He said Allays offer of £200 was fair and reasonable for Ms As 
loss of opportunity.
Ms A didnt agree she said Allay should provide a detailed account of what had happened 
and an audit trail of their system failure. Ms A felt shed been lied to and had now lost the 
opportunity to claim any redress for mis-sold PPI. She said shed email evidence of her 
contact with Allay and the deception that had prevented her claim. She asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint for the same reasons as our investigator 
found.  Ill explain why.
Im aware Ms A didnt think the recommendation of our investigator was adequate. And that 
the processes Allay had in place should be reviewed. She said Allay had deliberately lied 
about her claim progressing. Ms A has asked for a thorough review of the cause of the 
system error that meant her claim didnt progress. 
Id firstly like too explain that we are an alternative dispute resolution service, this means 
where a financial business (Allay) and a customer (Ms A) cant resolve a complaint between 
themselves, well give an unbiased answer about what has happened. If we decide someone 
has been treated unfairly, well look to put things right. Its not our role to interrogate the 
processes and systems the business has in place. That would be for the financial services 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority who set the standards for financial businesses to 
adhere to.
So, Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right
outcome.
In reaching my decision Ive considered whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions with Ms A. First, I want to recognise the impact the complaint has had on Ms A. 
Ive no doubt she instructed Allay to act on her behalf under the impression that her claim 
would be submitted. So, when it wasnt, and Ms A realised shed no way of submitting a 
claim herself, as the deadline for making such claims had passed, it must have caused upset 
to her.
Its not in dispute that the failure to submit the claims resulted from an error Allay made.
Theyve confirmed a system failure meant forms received werent submitted before the 
deadline passed. Because of this, Im satisfied Allay did something wrong and they should 
compensate Ms A for this.
But I am also aware that Ms A didnt instruct Allay until a few days before the deadline. This 
meant that Allay were left without any room for error in a very time sensitive situation. While I 
dont think this impacts the fact Allay made an error and failed to uphold the terms and 
conditions Ms A had agreed to, Ive thought about this in the context of what I think Allay 
should fairly do to recognise the error they made.
Ms A signed Allays letter of authority (LoA) in August 2019 and she submitted this to Allay 
on the understanding this would be sent to her lender. Allay said Ms A s details would have 
been added to a spreadsheet of similar claims and sent on to the respective lender, this is 
known by Allay as their pre-submission process. The submission of these details isnt a 
guarantee that the PPI claim would be successful. Its a data subject access request and it 
would only be when Ms As lender identified shed been sold a PPI policy that consideration 
would be made as to whether the PPI had been mis-sold. 
Ms A said that each time she called Allay she was told that her claim was progressing. I 
know she feels Allay were being deceptive. But from what Ive seen the agents she spoke to 
would have only been aware that the spreadsheet had been sent to her lender Ill call B as 
part of the pre-submission process. And that this was sent the day after Ms A signed up for 
Allays services. The records also show the lender was yet to respond. 
Due to the high volume of claims received as the deadline approached. And with other 
factors affecting lenders investigating mis-sold PPI claims. The FCA advised claims 
management companies such as Allay to allow lenders time to respond to their requests. So, 
I can understand Allays advising of such when Ms A called for a further update.
Allay is in the process of deauthorising with the FCA and ceasing any regulated activity. As 
part of this they must check any outstanding claims they have. And it was in March 2021, 
that theyve said they identified there was an error made during the pre-submission process, 
Ive not seen anything that would make be doubt that this wasnt the case. The error meant 
not all of the spreadsheet was sent to B. And it was the missing part that contained Ms As 
details. This meant her lender wasnt aware of her claim. I can see from Allays records they 
notified Ms A of their error in the same month.
I can understand Ms As frustration as she has lost the opportunity to make her PPI claim 
within the allotted timeframe. But if her claim had been made, I cant say Ms As lender 
would have identified that PPI had been mis-sold as there wasnt a guarantee by making a PPI claim that PPI would have been found or that  the PPI was mis-sold on the policy. And I 
havent seen any evidence from Ms A to show shed paid any PPI premiums.
So, Ive considered what I think is fair to compensate Ms A for her loss of opportunity to 
know whether shed a successful claim. 
Ms As obviously unhappy that shes potentially lost out on a significant amount of money. I
sympathise. But  as our investigator explained  it wouldnt be fair for me to say Allay 
should pay Ms A the value of her claim, because I cant say that it would have been
successful.
So, I think the fair thing to do is to compensate Ms A for the loss of her opportunity to make a
claim to B. I know Ms A will be disappointed with my decision, but I think the compensation 
offered by Allay of £200 is a fair one, so I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman