DRN-2877959
The complaint
Mrs H complains about a car she hired under a hire agreement with Arval UK Limited 
(Arval). 
What happened
In February 2021, Mrs H entered into a hire agreement with Arval. The car was first 
registered in October 2020, so it was just over three months old.  
Mrs H says it had a serious fault with the airbags and the seatbelts within the first 30 days 
after the car was supplied to her. Mrs H says that it was concluded that this was due to a 
wiring fault. Mrs H contacted Arval and asked to reject the car. Mrs H says that Arval took 
the car back. She incurred some insurance costs which she says Arval agreed to refund. 
She says they also agreed to pay her £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. But 
Mrs H is unhappy because she says that Arval still have not agreed to refund a car sourcing 
fee of £216 she paid. She would also like Arval to pay her an additional £150 in 
compensation. 
Arval says that they have advised her via email that the sourcing fee was paid to the broker, 
and so she would need to contact them directly to reclaim the cost. They say they have 
refunded the rental costs to Mrs H and they dont think that a further £150 compensation 
should be payable. 
Mrs H was not happy with this, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld.
Arval disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Mrs H hired the car under a regulated hire agreement, which is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Arval is the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for dealing with complaints about 
their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers hire agreements such as the one Mrs H 
entered into. This implies a term into the hire agreement that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into 
account the description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. I think 
in this case those relevant circumstances include, but are not limited to, the age and mileage 
of the car and the price paid. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general 
state and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
Arval have agreed to take back the car and end the hire agreement with nothing further 
owed by Mrs H. But, for the avoidance of doubt, considering the circumstances of this 
complaint Im satisfied the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs H. 
There should have been no faults with the airbags and the seatbelts. Also, Arval agreed to 
allow Mrs H to reject the car after the car faults were discovered. So overall, Im satisfied 
that, most likely, there were faults with the car. 
Arval has agreed to refund all the payments Mrs H made towards the hire agreement, and 
have also agreed to provide Mrs H a refund of the car insurance costs incurred by her. I 
think this is fair and reasonable, considering that Mrs H has not had much use of the car, as 
the faults occurred shortly after it was supplied to her. But Mrs H says she also paid a car 
sourcing fee of £216. This amount appears to be an arrangement or broker fee for sourcing 
the car and the finance. I know that Arval says that the sourcing fee is not something that 
they benefit from as this was paid directly to the broker for them to source the car for Mrs H, 
and they say they have no record or proof that this amount has been paid.  
Ive not seen documentary evidence to show Mrs H paid the car sourcing fee of £216 when 
arranging the car. But if she can provide clear documents evidencing the payment has been 
made, I think Arval should reimburse her this amount. I say this because it is a payment Mrs 
H made to get the car and hire the car over the agreed hire period. And, as Arval supplied 
her with a car that was not of satisfactory quality, the hire agreement has been cancelled 
because of this. Mrs H paid the sourcing fee expecting to be hiring the car and she has not 
been able to do this, so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for her to be expected to 
lose out on the £216 she paid for the considerably shorter period of car hire. Therefore, I 
think its fair and reasonable that Arval refund Mrs H the £216, subject to clear documentary 
evidence of the payment made by Mrs H. They should also pay 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement.
In addition, considering the circumstances, I think that it would not be fair or accurate to 
record any adverse information on Mrs Hs credit file. Also, the agreement should not be 
recorded as satisfied, as it may give potentially misleading impression to future lenders. So, I 
think Arval should arrange to remove the credit agreement from her credit file entirely, and 
any adverse markers.
Finally, Arval have offered Mrs H £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs H 
was initially happy and accepted this amount. She now thinks this amount should be higher, 
but I think the £100 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the impact of 
this situation.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint and direct Arval UK Limited to:
1. End the finance agreement with nothing further to pay - if this has already not been 
done;2. Refund any payments, including the initial payment Mrs H has made - if this has 
already not been done; 
3. Reimburse Mrs H the car insurance costs incurred by her - if this has already not 
been done; 
4. Refund the £216 sourcing fee, subject to documentary evidence showing the cost 
has been incurred; 
5. Pay Mrs H £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused - if this has already not 
been done; 
6. Add 8% simple interest per year to points 2, 3 and 4 above from the date of
each payment to the date of settlement;
7. Remove the hire agreement from Mrs Hs credit file and any adverse markers. 
If Arval considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it
should provide Mrs H with a certificate showing how much they have taken off, so she can 
reclaim that amount, if she is eligible to do so.
Mrs H should be allowed a reasonable period to provide the supporting documentary
evidence referred to above. Mrs H should provide the evidence of the £216 payment within
90 days of accepting this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman