DRN-3659991
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the premium rebate in relation to their medical insurance 
policy with BUPA Insurance Limited. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs H had a medical insurance policy with BUPA. The 
policy relevant to this complaint started on 1 December 2019 and ended on                         
30 November 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. On        
16 March 2020, the UK government advised against all unnecessary travel and social 
contact, especially for higher risk groups. On 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large number of patients suffering from      
Covid-19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support for the 
NHS.
In March 2020, BUPA wrote to Mr and Mrs H about the government postponing non-urgent 
hospital treatment in both public and private hospitals and BUPAs alternative services. In         
June 2021, BUPA sent Mr and Mrs H a rebate of £428.52. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept that 
and pursued their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H say that the treatment Mr H needed wasnt available. They say that Mr Hs  
treatment originally planned for January 2020 was finally carried out in December 2020 in 
the NHS. Mr and Mrs H say that BUPA wasnt able to provide the cover they required. They  
want a refund of a proportion of the premium they paid for the period 30 March 2020 to      
30 November 2020.    
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had acted 
unfairly. The investigator said that BUPA isnt required to refund premiums if medical 
treatment isnt available due to circumstances beyond its control. The investigator said that 
BUPA wasnt responsible for hospitals decisions to delay non-urgent treatment. She said 
that the rebate was fair, and that BUPA offered other benefits, such as remote consultations 
and a virtual GP service. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator. They said, in summary:
BUPA couldnt fulfil the terms of their policy. 
The policy says that provided no claims have been made, all subscriptions will be 
refunded. So, they want a refund of the full amount paid to BUPA for the relevant 
year.  
BUPA isnt entitled to retain the premium they paid as it was unable to provide 
treatment. 
Their policy with BUPA continued beyond the qualifying period for the rebate.
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs H said but didnt change her view.                   
Mr and Mrs H asked that an ombudsman consider the matter. They subsequently received a 
new rebate cheque from BUPA which they cashed, without prejudice to their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of their contract 
with BUPA as well as other relevant considerations, such as the law and industry guidance. 
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because I dont think that BUPA treated them 
unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:   
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy say that their policy is for one year 
and that the premium must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. 
Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening 
over the duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the 
premium paid to cover the risk during that time. BUPA provided cover under            
Mr and Mrs Hs policy from 1 December 2019 until 30 November 2020. BUPA is 
entitled to retain the premium it charged. 
The terms of Mr and Mrs Hs policy set out the cancellation rights under the contract. 
These say that if they cancel their policy within 21 days of either receiving the policy 
documents or the cover start date, they would be entitled to a full refund of the  
premium, unless any claims had been made. If Mr and Mrs H chose to cancel their 
policy at any point after 21 days, BUPA would refund the premium they had paid after 
the date the cover ended. Theres no term in the policy which entitled Mr and Mrs H 
to a premium refund if they are unable to make use of all of the services they 
expected to be available. 
I dont think its accurate to say that there was no value in the policy during the 
pandemic. Some urgent treatment continued. Depending on the type of treatment or 
services required, BUPA could have pre-authorised treatment to be carried out at a 
later date. And certain services could be carried out remotely. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if treatment or services 
arent available due to circumstances outside its control. BUPA doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the use of 
facilities by the NHS was something BUPA couldnt control. 
BUPA offered rebate payments to certain policyholders, including Mr and Mrs H. 
These rebates were paid in recognition of the value of claims reductions resulting 
from Covid-19, after allowing for the likely impact of delayed claims and the additional 
costs of the pandemic. I dont think that was an unfair approach.
The rebates paid by BUPA were equivalent to around one months premium for 
customers who held a policy throughout the qualifying period 23 March 2020 to       
30 September 2020. That was the period during which independent hospital services 
were most disrupted as they supported the NHS. BUPAs approach has been 
independently verified by a third party. Details of the independent party are available 
on BUPAs website. 
BUPA paid Mr and Mrs H a rebate of £428.52. BUPA calculated the rebate as a 
proportion of the premium paid during the qualifying period. I note that Mr and Mrs H 
say that their policy extended beyond the qualifying period, but I dont think that alters 
the outcome here. BUPA has paid Mr and Mrs H a pro rata rebate. The rebate BUPA 
paid is in line with the approach set out by BUPA and verified by the independent 
third party. I dont think thats unfair or unreasonable. 
I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require BUPA to increase the rebate it has already paid to Mr and Mrs H. It was for  
each individual insurer to decide how to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic and what, 
if any, action to take. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Hs position and I appreciate that 
it was very worrying to wait for important treatment, but for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think that BUPA treated them unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman