DRN-3493711
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has rejected her
claim for the loss of a mobile phone.
What happened
Miss M has insurance for her mobile phone as a benefit with her bank account. On 20 June
2021 she made a claim against Assurant for the loss of a mobile phone. She says that the
phone belonged to her, but her brother was the main user although she used it as well. She
says that the phone was in her bag as she had taken it off him. She had then left her bag
behind after taking her children to a music lesson. When she returned to look for her bag it 
had gone. When Miss M made her claim, she told Assurant that the phone was always in
use and was last used on the day it was stolen or just before.
Assurant undertook some checks with the phones network service provider which confirmed
that the SIM card for the number Miss M had given for the phone which ended in 413 had 
never been used in that phone, and that the phone had last been used with a different SIM 
number ending with 850 on 14 June, some six days before the loss. It said that the phone 
reported as lost couldnt therefore be placed in her possession at the time of the reported 
incident.
Assurant declined Miss Ms claim on the ground that the information Miss M had provided
about its use wasnt correct, and shed provided it with misleading information. It referred to 
a term of Miss Ms policy which says:
It is important that when applying for insurance or submitting a claim you or anyone
acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and
to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity of your policy or
the fulfilment of your claim.
When rejecting Miss Ms claim, Assurant also referred to the following term as the basis for
its rejection:
We will refuse to honour your claim if you knowingly provide us with false or
fraudulently exaggerated information to support your claim in any respect. This also
applies to any claim made for loss, theft or damage caused by your wilful act, or with
the intent to defraud us or the insurer.
Miss M was unhappy about Assurants rejection of her claim and the suggestion that shed
been fraudulent, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigators initial view
was that while Assurant was provided with incorrect information, she didnt think that
information wouldve impacted the validity of the claim or the amount that wouldve been
paid out for the claim.
However, our investigator did point out that Miss Ms policy only covers one phone per bank
account holder. As Miss M is the sole account holder and has her own phone insured with
Assurant, the phone used by her brother, although owned by Miss M, wouldnt therefore be
covered. Our investigators initial view was therefore that Miss Ms claim shouldve been 
declined, but not due to fraud.
In response to our investigators view, Assurant said that it didnt accuse Miss M of
committing fraud, but had advised her of its concerns regarding the information shed
provided, as it didnt match the usage it could see from her network. Because the SIM card
number Miss M had provided had never been used in the phone that was lost, it says it
couldnt place the phone in her possession at the time of the reported incident, and as such
this placed doubt as to whether the incident had happened as shed described.
In relation to the policy term that it only covers one phone per account holder, Assurant has
said that although only one device is covered at a time on the policy, a customer can change
the device they wish to be covered on the policy and also raise a claim at the same time, but
a proof of purchase will always then be requested.
Assurant maintained that Miss Ms claim had been correctly declined in line with the policy
terms, and as it didnt accuse Miss M of committing fraud no redress is warranted.
In response to comments received from Miss M and Assurant, our investigator revised her
view. She was satisfied with Assurants explanation that it had declined Miss Ms claim due
to her providing false usage information and not for fraud. She also took into account that the
incorrect information had led Assurant to doubt whether the claim happened in the way Miss
M said it did, and that the policy terms confirm Assurant has the right to decline a claim in
the event that false information is provided. She was therefore now satisfied that Assurant
had acted in line with the terms of the policy and couldnt say that it had acted unreasonably
in declining Miss Ms claim.
As Miss M didnt agree with our investigators revised view, she asked that her complaint
be considered by an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision as my initial view was that Assurant had acted unfairly when 
considering Miss Ms claim. Miss M had no additional comments to make in response to my 
provisional decision. Assurant made further submissions which Ive taken into account in 
issuing this my final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Assurants further submissions, Im not persuaded that my provisional 
view was incorrect. Im therefore continuing to uphold Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain 
why.
Having seen the information provided by Assurant following the enquiries it made, Im
satisfied that Miss M provided incorrect information to Assurant when submitting her claim.
This misinformation related to the usage of the phone prior to its loss and the SIM card it
contained. It doesnt relate to the actual circumstances of its loss, or the amount shes
claiming for it.
Ive listened to the telephone conversation between Miss M and our investigator. Shes
explained that she has her own phone, and the phone that was lost, although owned by her,
was mainly used by her brother. That leads me to the view that the inaccurate information
she provided to Assurant was because shed made assumptions about her brothers usageof the phone. She hadnt checked this information with him and his actual usage was
different.
Its less clear why Miss M provided an incorrect SIM number, as it would be reasonable to
assume that the SIM number she provided to Assurant would correspond to the number she
had for her brothers phone. But a SIM number doesnt identify the phone itself as SIM cards
can be changed between devices. Im not persuaded that the fact that the phone didnt 
contain the SIM card that Miss M originally said it did is relevant to the circumstances of the 
loss. As it wasnt her phone, she wouldnt necessarily have known the SIM card it contained 
or when it was last used. Assurant doesnt appear to dispute the circumstances of the loss of 
the phone that Miss M has described and whose purchase she has evidenced.
Ive quoted above the policy term Assurant has referred to which states We will refuse to
honour your claim if you knowingly provide us with false or fraudulently exaggerated
information to support your claim in any respect.
In my provisional decision I said I couldnt find this wording in the policy. In response, 
Assurant referred me to the Fraud section of the policy where it says that wording appears. 
It doesnt. But it does say the following (my emphasis underlined):
If false or inaccurate information is provided and fraud is identified then we may:
 Reject the claim and we may cancel your policy. If an excess has been paid this will 
be returned.
Assurant has told our investigator that Miss Ms claim was declined for the provision of false 
and misleading information, and not for fraud. Referring to the policy term Ive quoted above, 
its strongly arguable that fraud has to be present, and if it is, a claim may be rejected. The 
policy doesnt state that a claim will or may be rejected on the ground of false or inaccurate 
information alone.
Im persuaded that the incorrect information Miss M provided was true to the best of her 
knowledge at the time. I dont consider that she knowingly provided false and misleading 
information to Assurant that wouldve caused a claim to be paid which wouldnt have been 
paid if correct information had been given. I consider that Assurant is rejecting Miss Ms 
claim based on the mere fact that false information was given rather than the nature of that 
information. Im not persuaded that the nature of the information said to be false is relevant 
to the circumstances of the loss. Whilst the burden is on Miss M to show that she has a valid 
claim, Assurant hasnt challenged Miss Ms version of the circumstances giving rise to the 
loss.
My conclusion is that I dont consider that the nature of the false information Miss M provided
to Assurant affects whether or not she has a valid claim, or how much is paid. Shes also 
provided evidence that the phone she was claiming for belonged to her even though she 
wasnt clear about the SIM card within the phone itself.
As Assurant has said that a customer can change the device they wish to be covered on the
policy and also raise a claim at the same time subject to proof of purchase being provided,
my view is that Assurant should re-consider Miss Ms claim but subject to the other terms
and conditions of her policy.
Miss M says shes continuing to make payments of £60 per month to her network provider 
for a phone she no longer has. I consider Assurant should reimburse to Miss M the 
payments shes able to evidence that shed paid to her network provider for this phone 
following Assurants rejection of her claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to assess Miss Ms claim subject to the other 
terms and conditions of her policy.
I also require Assurant General Insurance Limited to reimburse to Miss M any payments 
shes able to evidence that shes made to her network provider for this phone  from 15 July 
2021 until her claim is paid unless her claim is rejected in reliance upon any other term of 
her policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman