DRN-3530772
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a finance agreement brokered by Swansway Garages Limited, trading 
as Preston Audi (PA) was misrepresented to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mrs B has been represented throughout this complaint but for ease, and because Mrs B is 
named on the finance agreement, I will refer only to her in this decision. I mean no 
discourtesy to her representative when doing so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
In order to find that theres been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the 
supplying dealer made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mrs B to enter into the 
contract.
Mrs B says she was told that PA would pay the first three months of the agreement (3 x 
1272.44) under the 3 on us offer in place at the time. She says she was promised that the 
balance to pay would therefore be reduced to £38,247 with a little bit of interest. Shes 
provided a copy of the quote on which the sales agent has handwritten £3,817.32 (equal to 
3 x £1,272.44) and £38,247 which is the amount being borrowed less the three months 
(rounded down to no decimal places). 
I think its likely these are figures that the sales agent provided as Ive found Mrs Bs 
testimony compelling and consistent. She clearly intended, on the back of these discussions, 
to clear the finance after three months as thats when she asked for a settlement quotation.
On the other hand, its clear that Mrs B did sign the finance agreement and that the 
agreement set out different figures that were to be paid. It seems that three months were to 
be provided free of charge but that the discount was to be achieved by reducing the interest 
rate from the standard interest rate thereafter.
On balance, I think its likely the agreement was misrepresented to Mrs B. I dont think it was 
the clearest of schemes and I think the handwritten notes help to understand what was 
explained at the time the agreement was negotiated. I dont think its likely Mrs B would have 
continued to finance the car had she not been encouraged to by the sales agents 
projections. Her actions suggest she would have chosen to purchase the car outright and 
shes explained the only reason PAs offer was interesting was because it offered such a 
discount and that discount wasnt available on the other quote shed received online.
Putting things right
Mrs B has kept the car and has kept paying finance instalments in line with the finance 
agreement. She says the settlement figure now provided will mean shes paying much more 
than what she was promised shed pay.
When theres been a misrepresentation we try to put the consumer back in the position they 
would have been in if the misrepresentation hadnt happened. But we dont treat the false 
statement as if it were true and thats what Mrs B is asking me to do here.
It's not always possible to put the consumer back in exactly the same position as they would 
have been in had the misrepresentation not have happened but I think the investigators 
suggested redress is fair and sensible in the circumstances.
If Mrs B chooses to accept this decision she will therefore need to request a settlement 
quotation and settle the agreement within 28 days of receiving it. 
Mrs B always wanted to buy the car so its fair for her to keep it, but its not fair that she pays 
interest on the finance instalments. Any interest charged should therefore be refunded 
except for any paid on the October 2020 instalment as that was before a settlement quote 
was requested. That figure will need to be provided by the finance company as the interest 
figure will have changed since they last provided it.
Ive looked at the Product Information Guide that explains how the 3 on us promotion was 
to work. That explains that there is a requirement for dealers to make a contribution to the 
finance. So, the finance contribution of £2,130 has only been provided because the 
promotion was in place. Mrs B will therefore need to repay that contribution if she accepts 
this redress, or it can be deducted from any refund calculated under this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and direct Swansway Garages 
Limited to settle it in the following way. 
Mrs B should request a settlement quotation and make payment within 28 days. 
PA should refund the interest payable for each monthly payment made except for the 
monthly payment in October 2020. The finance deposit of £2,130 can be deducted 
from that refund as Mrs B wouldnt have received that had she not taken the 
agreement.The dealer contribution should stay as I feel it more than likely it wouldve been 
offered even on a cash sale.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman