DRN-1689594
The complaint
Mr G complains about his claim under his car insurance policy with Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited (Watford). Specifically, hes unhappy with the delays and service 
he received, and the valuation he was given for his vehicle.
What happened
Mr G has a car insurance policy underwritten by Watford. On 5 January 2020 Mr Gs car was 
stolen. He reported this to Watford on 6 January. Watford sent out a letter on the same day 
asking for a list of documentation so it was able to process Mr Gs claim. Mr G sent this by 
recorded delivery and Watford received it on 8 January.
Mr G called Watford on 8 January for an update and he was told it should take around two 
days to get a valuation. Mr G also called on 9 January and was then told it may be the 
Monday or Tuesday of the following week before he got a valuation (this would be 13 or 14 
January). But on 10 January, Mr G was told it may take around a week for the valuation. 
Mr G was unhappy as hed been told it would be a lot quicker and made a complaint.
On 15 January Watford told Mr G it had valued his vehicle at £18,400 based on three trade 
guides. It deducted his excess and said it would pay the balance to Mr Gs finance provider, 
as the finance outstanding was more than the settlement. Mr G complained about this. He 
felt the valuation was too low and that he shouldnt be out of pocket for having his car stolen.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained the valuation was made using 
three trade guides, which is what this service would expect. Our investigator also checked 
trade guides and found the valuation was in the range the trade guides gave, so it was 
reasonable. Our investigator also explained that the terms of Mr Gs policy say that the 
settlement would go to a finance company if there is outstanding finance on the car. And that 
Watford would pay the market value of the car, not the amount that the same cars are 
advertised for.
Our investigator also explained that the time from Mr G registering his claim to the time the 
valuation was given was reasonable. It was all done in nine days. So, whilst Mr G was given 
some incorrect information about timescales, this was corrected soon after and Mr G wasnt 
waiting an unreasonable amount of time.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He felt he shouldnt have been left out of pocket after 
his car was stolen and feels he should be given around £21,000 so hes able to purchase a 
new car. Mr G also felt he was lied to over the phone as he was told he would get a higher 
amount. Hes asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for similar reasons.
Delays
Mr G was understandably upset that it took some time for Watford to give him a valuation for 
his car. He has two children and was without a car and so it was extremely inconvenient. But 
I cant agree that there were any delays. I understand that Watford gave some misleading 
information about how long it would take, originally saying it would only take two days. But 
this was corrected soon afterwards when Mr G called again. And in any event, I dont think 
the time it took Watford to process the claim was unreasonable. It received Mr Gs 
documents on 8 January and gave him a valuation on 15 January. This was only a week and 
I cant see that there were any unnecessary delays caused. So, I wont be awarding any 
compensation for this.
Valuation
When a car has been stolen wed usually expect an insurer to pay the market value of the 
car. And Mr Gs policy says that it will pay the market value of the car immediately before the 
loss. Mr Gs policy defines market value as:
'The retail Market Value based on that listed in the current Glasses Guide for
purchasing, or replacing, the insured vehicle with one of the same make, model, age,
trim level, recorded mileage and being in a similar condition.'
Watford has told us that it checked three trade guides to reach the market value of £18,400. 
My role here isnt to value Mr Gs car, but to see whether the valuation given is fair and in 
line with the trade guides. Ive checked the same trade guides and can see that the market 
value of Mr Gs car is between £18,000 and £19,000. As Watford has offered a figure in the 
middle of this range, I think the valuation is fair.
I understand this has meant Mr G is out of pocket, as he owed more under his car finance 
agreement. Unfortunately, this can be the case. Because often retailers will add a margin 
when selling a car, and cars depreciate in value. So, if a consumer funds a car purchase 
with finance, there is often a period where they may owe more under the finance agreement 
than the car is worth. This was the case here. But this doesnt make the valuation incorrect.
I can see that Mr G has found a similar car for sale for around £21,000. But as explained, 
when a car is being sold there is often a margin applied for profit or negotiation. So, the retail 
price of a car is often higher than the market value. But as Mr Gs policy terms say it will pay 
the market value, I cant say Watford has done anything wrong here.
Mr Gs policy also says that where there is a finance agreement in place, the settlement will 
go to the finance provider. So, Watford has acted in line with the policy terms in paying 
Mr Gs finance provider directly.
Customer service
Mr G has said he was lied to over the phone when talking to Watford. I understand that there 
was some misleading information about the timescales of the claim at the start, but this was 
quickly corrected and I dont think there was an avoidable delay caused by Watford when 
processing the claim.Ive also seen that Mr G says he was told higher valuation figures. Watford hasnt been able 
to provide me with this call recording. However, even if this was the case, we expect the 
actual valuation to be based on an average market value when looking at three trade guides. 
This is what Watford did. So, if Mr G was given an indication that there would be higher 
figure originally, Watford did give an official valuation in line with its terms, and in a way that 
was fair and reasonable. And as I think it did this in a reasonable amount of time, I dont 
think that any different information in this time frame wouldve impacted Mr G in a way that 
would warrant compensation. Mr G would like a higher valuation for his vehicle so hes not 
left out of pocket. Whilst I understand why this is the case, I cant agree that Watfords 
valuation is too low. So, I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman