DRN-3186158
The complaint
Miss K feels that TSB Bank Plc unfairly applied charges and interest to her account when 
she was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss K complained to TSB about unarranged overdraft charges and interest applied to her 
account. She says the charges made her difficult financial circumstances even worse and 
she would like TSB to refund to her all the charges applied.
TSB looked at Miss Ks complaint, it felt the charges applied to her account were fair. TSB 
also noted that it had offered her assistance and advice as well as telling her about services 
that could help her to limit the charges applied to her account, and noted that it had refunded 
charges on previous occasions to help her out. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ks concerns, he explained that he didnt think TSB 
had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Miss Ks account. Miss K disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Miss Ks complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ks complaint, Ill 
explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts TSB charged Miss K over the years were fair and reasonable. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for 
me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at TSB charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Miss K if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
her account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where TSB didnt treat Miss K 
fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that TSB did treat Miss K unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at her 
account statements, I can see that while she did go into an unarranged overdraft regularly, I 
can also see that any overdrawn balances were generally repaid within a few days, and that 
Miss K was receiving regular credits to her account throughout this period. I can also see 
that on several occasions TSB did refund overdraft charges to try to assist Miss K and that 
TSB offered advice and signposted Miss K to organisations who could help whenever it 
wrote to her to let her know it had refused payments on her account.
In the circumstances I think that the steps TSB took to help Miss K were appropriate. When 
someone is struggling with recurring unarranged overdraft charges we would expect a bank 
to offer forbearance. But by waiving some charges, along with offering access to money 
management advice, TSB was taking action which could help break the cycle of charges for 
Miss K. And I dont think I can fairly say that TSB shouldnt have applied any charges at all to 
Miss Ks account, particularly as often charges were incurred because Miss K had used her 
debit card when there were not enough funds in her account to cover the transactions. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss K, but Im satisfied that TSB hasnt 
treated her unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman