DRN-4450942
The complaint
Mr H has complained that he was mis-sold unit linked whole of life policies, by a predecessor 
scheme of CASLP Ltd. 
Mr H is being represented with this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
What happened
Mr H took out four unit-linked whole-of-life policies though CASLP Ltd, between 1987 and 
1990. 
The first policy was taken out in December 1987. It had an initial sum assured of £945 for a 
monthly premium of £5. The second policy was taken out in February 1988. It also had an 
initial sum assured of £945 for a monthly premium of £5. The third policy was taken out in 
November 1989. It had an initial sum assured of £256.50 for a monthly premium of £1.50. 
The fourth policy was taken out in March 1990. It had an initial sum assured of £427.50 for a 
monthly premium of £2.50. 
A range of funds were offered, from which Mr H chose at commencement what to invest his 
monthly premium into. Units were sold to pay for the life cover and charges. The policies 
provided a death benefit of the greater of either the policys unit value or the sum assured. 
Mr H complained through his CMC that the policies had been mis-sold to him. He said that 
they had been incorrectly sold as medium-term plans and that alternative tax-free options 
should have been considered first. 
CASLP Ltd initially replied to say that Mr H hadnt brought his complaint in time. However, 
one of our ombudsmen concluded that it had. CASLP Ltd then agreed to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint regarding the latter two policies that were taken out, which Mr H accepted. 
However, CASLP Ltd didnt agree to uphold the first two policies taken out in 1987 and 1988. 
They said that they had been taken out prior to the implementation of the Financial Services 
Act. They said the information was clear and not mis-leading. 
An investigator looked into it but thought CASLP Ltd had acted fairly. He said he couldnt 
conclude the policies were inappropriate or Mr H had been given misleading information. 
Mr H remained unhappy. He said through his CMC that the sales didnt follow the 
requirements of the time to not make negligent miss-statements, to advise with reasonable 
skill and care and to disclose material information.
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has accepted the offer from CASLP Ltd to reconstruct the latter two policies as if they 
had been ten-year policies and compensate Mr H with the difference. My decision therefore 
is only regarding the two earlier policies. 
Investment advice became regulated under the Financial Services Act 1986 with effect from 
29 April 1988. Before this date, advisers didnt have to consider if a recommendation was 
suitable for a consumers circumstances. Instead, advisers had to advise with reasonable 
skill and care, ensuring he or she didnt make misstatements and that material information 
(if relevant) was disclosed. As both parties have acknowledged, these two policies in 
question were sold prior to April 1988. 
I recognise that because of the passage of time, there is little available information from the 
time of the sales in December 1987 and February 1988. However, we do have a copy of the 
application forms, programme schedules and product brochure. We also have the fact find 
information for the later sales (after the requirement from the implementation of the Financial 
Services Act).
From these, I cannot safely conclude what the advice was that was given to Mr H. However, 
it would seem that the suggestion to take out a unit-linked whole of life policy was a 
reasonable fit in the circumstances. It provided an element of savings, with the monthly 
premium purchasing units in the fund of Mr Hs choice (in this case the International 
Managed Fund) and a surrender value accruing. It also provided a life assurance benefit 
(with units being sold to pay for charges and the cost of cover). 
There is nothing to suggest this was clearly inappropriate and I can see that Mrs H was 
recorded as married at the time, so his wife would have been able to benefit from the life 
assurance element. 
Mr Hs CMC has suggested that tax free alternatives should have been offered first. I havent 
seen anything to suggest they werent, or what other options were considered. Also, these 
policies offered a benefit of becoming qualifying policies after ten years, meaning the value 
after that point wouldnt be liable to income or capital gains tax. I cant see anything to show 
that Mr H didnt intend to hold on to the policies for that long and I can see he kept them in 
place for much longer than that. 
Mr Hs CMC has also said that the requirements to disclose material information and not 
mislead were not met. Namely that the policies werent sold exclusively for the longer term 
as they should have been. They have pointed to the fact that the complaint about the 
policies sold approximately two years later have been upheld, as Mr H was recorded at that 
point as wanting mid-term savings and these were longer term products. 
However, I cant safely conclude that the advisor was aware for these two initial sales that 
Mr H wanted to invest for the mid-term. There is nothing to suggest that Mr H would need 
the savings in coming years and in fact they were kept in place for over 30 years. This is 
different to the later two policies where Mr H discloses a requirement mid-term. So I agree at 
this point (especially as the Financial Services Act had been implemented) the advisor 
should have done more. 
I also cant safely conclude that they failed to disclose for the two initial policies that they 
were longer term products. The brochure makes it clear that the policies did providean investment benefit for long-term savings and were open-ended. It states clearly that 
whilst the surrender value can be accessed at any time, it is designed to grow steadily with 
the full benefit and worth being realised after about 25 years. 
In summary, I am glad to see that CASLP Ltd have come to an agreement on settlement for 
the later two policies. However, I dont think the available evidence is enough for me to 
conclude that the first two policies should be upheld. They seem a reasonable fit for Mr Hs 
disclosed circumstances at the time and the information provided makes clear how they 
were intended to work. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that the offer already made to put things 
right by CASLP Ltd is fair and I dont require them to do anything further. CASLP Ltd should 
pay Mr H the compensation agreed for the two upheld policies, if they havent already done 
so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman