DRN-2607288
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr J complains that Scottish Widows Limited made an error when it 
calculated the benefits due to the estate in 2009. The estate further complains that 
Scottish Widows has failed to provide fair redress for that error and has unfairly deducted tax 
from the redress that has been paid.
What happened
Mr J sadly passed away in April 2008. His will named two executors that I will call Mr P and 
Mr F. A Grant of Probate was issued in April 2009 that appointed Mr P as executor of Mr Js 
estate. Another executor, that I assume to be Mr F, reserved their powers. So in dealing with 
this complaint it is Mr P that legally acts on behalf of the estate and has brought this 
complaint to us.
Mr J held pension savings with Scottish Widows. Following his death the value of those 
benefits was paid by Scottish Widows to his estate and distributed in accordance with his 
will. In 2019 Scottish Widows wrote to Mr P to tell him that it had identified an error in the 
calculations it had performed in 2009. It had undervalued the benefits due to Mr Js estate by 
approximately £9,500.
Scottish Widows provided Mr P with details of its calculations. HMRC rules required that tax 
be deducted from the underpayment. But as a goodwill gesture Scottish Widows made a 
further payment equivalent to the tax that would be deducted at the basic rate. It also paid 
interest on the underpayment (although that too was subject to a deduction for tax).
Had the underpayment been identified at the time of the original distribution (or within the 
following two years) it wouldnt have been subject to tax. And since Scottish Widows needed 
to apply an emergency tax coding to the additional payment it made in 2019 the amount of 
tax that was deducted was greater than the basic rate. So the payment Mr P received on 
behalf of the estate, despite the additional goodwill payment, was less than it would have 
been in 2009. But Scottish Widows told Mr P that it might be possible to reclaim at least 
some of the tax that had been deducted from HMRC.
Mr P faced a number of problems with what Scottish Widows had done. He had ceased his 
responsibilities as an executor a number of years earlier, and closed the executor bank 
account. The cheque that Scottish Widows sent was payable to him personally. And 
Scottish Widows then treated the payment as having been made to a beneficiary rather than 
an executor resulting in Mr Ps own personal tax situation being impacted. I will discuss 
further the impacts on Mr P later in this decision. But Scottish Widows sent him a cheque for 
£200 in respect of the trouble hed been caused. I understand that Mr P returned that 
cheque to Scottish Widows as he didnt accept its offer of compensation.
The complaint, regarding the impact of Scottish Widows error on estate of the late Mr J, has 
been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the tax Scottish Widows had 
deducted was in line with its responsibilities to HMRC. And since this complaint was brought 
by the estate of Mr J she said she wasnt able to consider any impacts on Mr P himself. So 
she didnt think Scottish Widows needed to do anything further.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it important that I set out which matters I can consider as part of this 
complaint. The complaint has been brought by Mr P, but on behalf of the estate of Mr J. So 
Mr Ps involvement here is as a representative of the late Mr J  he is not acting in a 
personal capacity. So the matters that I can consider are those relating to the dealings 
between the estate and Scottish Widows. It isnt appropriate for me to consider here the 
personal impacts on Mr P such as any effect on his taxation situation, or any additional work 
he might have been caused by Scottish Widows errors.
It might be possible for the personal issues that Mr P has faced to be dealt with in a separate 
complaint. I can see that Scottish Widows has apologised to Mr P for the impacts it caused 
to him personally and offered him some compensation. So those matters might be 
something that Mr P could consider referring to this Service. 
But I must warn Mr P that before looking at the merits of any such complaint we would need 
to consider whether he is an eligible complainant under the FCAs DISP rules. Those rules 
(set out in section 2.7.6) define the relationships that might support a complaint. It would be 
for this Service to consider whether the relationship between Mr P and Scottish Widows fits 
into one of those categories. The fact that Scottish Widows has dealt with his personal 
complaint doesnt necessarily mean that this Service would be able to take the matter 
forwards.
So the matters I can consider here relate solely to the payment that Scottish Widows made 
to the estate of Mr J in 2009, and whether the compensation it paid in 2019 was sufficient to 
make up for any shortfall in that payment.
Scottish Widows has recently identified that it didnt pay all that was due to Mr Js estate in 
2009. That payment was a capital distribution, and so it might seem logical that the 
additional payment it made in 2019 should be treated in the same way. But Scottish Widows 
also needs to take into account the law. And the law says that Scottish Widows can only 
correct an underpayment in this way if it is paid within two years of the original payment. 
That is clearly not the case here, so Scottish Widows hands are to some extent tied in terms 
of how it should now treat the compensation it paid.
The tax treatment that Scottish Widows has applied does not suggest to me that it has 
needed to make a judgement about the type of payment it is making. That would be a 
matter, given the time that has elapsed, for HMRC. And quite reasonably Scottish Widows 
has suggested to Mr P that he would need to liaise with HMRC about the taxation status of 
the payment, and whether the estate is able to reclaim any tax that has been levied. 
I appreciate that is an unsatisfactory situation for Mr P, needing to spend his personal time revisiting this executor responsibilities. But since the error has been made, I dont see there 
is more that Scottish Widows could do to ease that burden  it is a matter between the 
estate of Mr J and HMRC.
Given the time that has elapsed, Scottish Widows no longer holds any tax code information 
to support the payment that it has made. So, in line with all other payments that it makes 
where the tax code information is unavailable, Scottish Widows needs to apply an 
emergency tax code. That means that the amount it is required to withhold as taxation is 
sometimes greater than the basic rate of tax. That is what has happened here.
I can see that as part of the compensation Scottish Widows paid to the estate, it added a 
further goodwill payment that would be equal to the basic rate tax that might be deducted. 
And it advised consumers that any additional taxation liability, that couldnt be reclaimed 
from HMRC would also be paid by Scottish Widows on receipt of appropriate evidence. So it 
seems to me that the estate of Mr J will not ultimately lose out as a result of the tax that 
Scottish Widows was required to deduct. Any tax above the basic rate that was deducted 
can either be reclaimed from HMRC or will be paid by Scottish Widows.
And Scottish Widows also added simple interest, at the statutory rate of 8% per annum, on 
the underpayment. That is in line with what I would expect it to do in circumstances such as 
these. I appreciate that Scottish Widows has also been required to deduct tax from that 
payment too. So that is another matter that Mr P, acting as executor of the estate, will need 
to discuss with HMRC.
I concur with much of Mr Ps frustration on this matter. There was a significant period of time 
before this error was identified. And Scottish Widows appears to have failed to make 
sufficient distinction between Mr P as an individual, and as an executor of Mr Js estate. But, 
accepting that mistakes occur from time to time, my consideration here needs to be whether 
Scottish Widows has acted appropriately in how it has put things right for the estate. It has 
little control over the tax treatment of these compensation payments, though I can see that 
Scottish Widows has taken steps to mitigate any tax losses as far as it can. And it has paid 
interest to reflect the time it has taken for the error to be identified.
So it doesnt seem to me that the estate of the late Mr J has lost out as a result of the error 
that Scottish Widows made in 2009. The actions that Scottish Widows took in 2019 were a 
fair and reasonable method of putting things right. So I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf of 
the estate of Mr J, to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman