DRN-3466817
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has wrongfully withheld 
some of his money following a refunded international payment.
What happened
Mr K is a customer of Nationwide. In August 2021, Mr K says he authorised an international 
SWIFT payment of around £3,450, using his Nationwide bank account. Mr K also paid a fee 
of £20 for the transaction. Mr K says that the payment was debited from his account.
Mr K says he contacted the intended recipient and they confirmed payment had not been 
received. So, Mr K contacted Nationwide to enquire about the missing money and a 
payment recovery was processed to get the funds back.
Mr K says Nationwide told him that they were not able to process the payment and so 
refunded the money back to him. In September 2021, the amount refunded was around 
£3,292. Mr K says that the repaid money was a lower amount to the initial payment value 
and that Nationwide told him that this was due to currency variations from the time the 
payment was made to when it was refunded.
Mr K believes Nationwide made mistakes that didnt allow the payment to process 
successfully; they didnt communicate with him that something had gone wrong; and that he 
has now lost out on some of his money due to currency fluctuations. Mr K believes he has 
lost out about £157, and so complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide responded to Mr K and said that they had actioned the transfer to the recipient, 
but it wasnt their fault that it hadnt reached them. They also said that due to the exchange 
rate when the funds were returned, the amount differed as they had to convert it back to 
pounds to recredit Mr Ks account. They say as exchange rates change daily, this is outside 
of their control. While Nationwide didnt believe they had made any errors, they say they 
credited Mr Ks account with £20 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr K, unhappy with Nationwides response, referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think that Nationwide could have done anything further once the funds had 
left Mr Ks account, and therefore, he didnt think they acted unreasonably.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings and referred his complaint to an 
ombudsman. And so, it has been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
The terms and conditions to Mr Ks account say that for electronic payment transactions in a 
currency other than pounds sterling, Nationwide will convert the payment amount using their 
standard outbound exchange rate for that currency. It also goes on to say that these are 
variable rates that change frequently. Nationwides terms also say that if a payment is in a 
foreign currency, then it will be converted into pounds sterling using Nationwides standard 
inbound exchange rate. And that this rate may vary, depending on the payment type if a 
customer was to receive money from outside the UK.
Ive also noted that the terms say that Nationwide wont be responsible if they are asked to 
make a payment to another person and the recipients bank delays crediting the money to 
the recipients account. They say this could happen if, for example security checks need to 
be carried out.
So, with that in mind, I have considered whether Nationwide has applied its terms fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances.
SWIFT is a way of making a pounds sterling payment from the UK to another country or 
payment in a currency other than pounds sterling. It is a secure messaging system that 
allows banks to instruct each other on payments and accounts that they hold with each 
other.
Nationwide has provided our service with a copy of Mr Ks bank statement at around the 
time the payment was made. I can see a SWIFT payment was made in August 2021 for 
around £3,450, alongside a SWIFT transfer fee of around £20. It also details on Mr Ks 
statement the exchange rate used to make the payment.
Mr K says the money hadnt reached the intended recipient. Nationwide believe it is out of 
their control that the money hadnt reached the recipient and they believe the recipients 
bank would need to be contacted to establish those details. 
I have seen screenshots of Nationwides internal systems that show a credit payment 
recovery was initiated in September 2021. Normally, a payment recovery would be 
completed, to contact the recipients bank that the money was sent to. So, I think it is likely 
that Nationwide had processed the transaction correctly and as they had to initiate a 
payment recovery, the funds had left Mr Ks account to the recipients bank.
Mr K also believes Nationwide have withheld some of his money. Nationwide has explained 
why the payment refunded was for a different amount. Theres no single exchange rate for a 
currency that all banks must use. Each bank will essentially set its own fluctuating exchange 
rate for each currency, taking into account the various market considerations. Having 
reviewed their terms, I cant say Nationwide has acted unreasonably here. Their terms say 
that if a payment due is in a foreign currency, as is the case in this instance, then it will be 
converted to pounds sterling using Nationwides standard inbound exchange rate.
I appreciate it may have been frustrating for Mr K, to not hear from Nationwide about the 
payment. But Nationwide has told our service they hadnt been contacted by the recipients 
bank about the transfer, and so werent aware the payment hadnt transferred successfully to 
the recipient. They say they were only aware of this when Mr K got in touch with them. And 
so I cant fairly say Nationwide are at fault for not getting in touch with Mr K sooner, as they 
believed the transaction had reached the recipient as intended. As a gesture of goodwill, 
Nationwide say they credited Mr K with £20 as the payment hadnt reached the intended 
recipient. I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman