DRN-4305738
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with the way in which their claim has been handled by AWP P&C 
SA after making a claim on their travel insurance policy (the policy). 
All reference to AWP includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it 
mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
For the reasons set out below, I dont think AWP has acted fairly and reasonably in the way 
in which its handled Mr and Mrs Ns claim. 
Nor do I think its fairly and reasonably concluded that it couldnt consider the claim made by 
Mr and Mrs N on the basis that Mrs N was unable to establish that shed tested positive for 
Covid-19 whilst abroad. This led to her and Mr N being unable to make a connecting flight 
whilst away and they had to remain in the country they first visited as part of their trip longer 
than originally planned. 
Mr and Mrs N submitted a claim for their out-of-pocket expenses incurred whilst 
abroad in or around July 2022. Despite being chased for updates by Mr and Mrs N, it 
wasnt until October 2022 that AWP notified Mr and Mrs N that it was unable to 
consider the claim further. 
AWP accepted in October 2022 that it couldve provided Mr and Mrs N with better 
service and there had been unnecessary delays when assessing their claim. And in 
in early 2023, it also accepted that there were unreasonable delays when 
reconsidering further information provided by Mr and Mrs N after theyd been told that 
AWP couldnt take their claim any further.
Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs N incurred avoidable distress and inconvenience by 
the delays incurred by AWP. They were put to the unnecessary inconvenience of 
having to chase for updates when not receiving responses to their emails and 
providing further evidence contesting the reason put forward by AWP to decline the 
claim. Im persuaded this wouldve been very frustrating for Mr and Mrs N. 
Given the high value of the claim, I can understand why Mr and Mrs N wouldve also 
been upset that theyd been told by AWP that their claim couldnt be considered 
further on the basis that they were unable to provide evidence of a PCR test or a 
registered lateral flow test establishing that Mrs N had tested positive for Covid-19 
whilst away (a decision which for reasons Ill explain below, Im satisfied is unfair). 
Mr N had spoken to a representative of AWP whilst abroad to say that Mrs N had 
taken three lateral flow tests, all of which were positive. And theyd taken videos and 
photos of her doing the tests. AWPs representative told Mr N that Mrs N didnt need 
to get a PCR test; a lateral flow test would be sufficient. 
There was no mention of Mrs N having to register the lateral flow test and Mr N 
wasnt asked whether this had been done before confirming that a positive lateral 
flow test would be sufficient. AWPs representative also confirmed that certain 
expenses would be covered such as extended hotel costs. Mr N asked for all this to 
be confirmed in writing which the representative agreed to do but didnt. Given that 
Mr N sought to clarify (and received confirmation) from AWP that a lateral flow would 
be sufficient to establish Mrs N had tested positive for Covid-19 before the missed 
flights, I think it would be particularly upsetting and frustrating for Mr and Mrs N to 
know that AWP has subsequently used the lack of a positive PCR test or registered 
lateral flow tests as the reason for not accepting the claim. 
The policy terms dont set out what type of test is required to establish a positive 
result for Covid-19. And, in any event, given the express assurances given to Mr N 
whilst abroad (which I think Mr and Mrs N fairly relied on), Im satisfied AWP hasnt 
acted fairly and reasonably by not accepting the lateral flow tests taken by Mrs N as 
sufficient evidence that shed tested positive for Covid-19. Given shed tested positive 
for Covid-19, I accept that she and Mr N werent able to take their connecting flight to 
another country as planned as part of their overall trip due to local government 
guidance in place at the time and had to remain in the country theyd first travelled to 
for longer than initially planned. 
Im satisfied that £200 compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by Mr and Mrs N in this case. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which our Service notifies AWP that Mr and Mrs N accept 
my final decision, I direct AWP to:
reassess Mr and Mrs Ns claim under the remaining terms of the policy, on the basis 
that the evidence of the lateral flow tests provided by Mr and Mrs N is sufficient to 
establish that Mrs N had received a positive diagnosis of Covid-19 whilst away. 
pay compensation to Mr and Mrs N in the sum of £200 to reflect the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience theyve experienced as a result of AWPs failing in this 
case including declining the claim for the reasons it did, not promptly progressing 
their claim and failing to promptly consider the further information provided by Mr and 
Mrs N. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman