DRN-1872894
The complaint
Mr R is a director of a limited company I'll refer to as N. He's complained on N's behalf that 
Euler Hermes SA/NV turned down a claim on N's credit insurance policy. 
Mr R has been represented by Mr H in bringing this complaint. For ease of reading I'll refer 
to all actions and comments as being those of Mr H. 
What happened
N took out a Trade Builder policy with Euler Hermes in October 2018 which included a credit 
insurance policy. On 6 March 2019 Mr H contacted Euler Hermes to say N might need to 
claim on its policy. Mr H said that a company that I'll refer to as P hadn't paid any 
outstanding invoices between October 2018 and March 2019, totalling over £55,000. Mr H 
said N had been in contact with the directors of P who had promised to pay all outstanding 
amounts. On 29 March P went into administration without paying the amount owed. 
Mr H contacted Euler Hermes in May to claim on the policy. Euler Hermes turned down the 
claim. It said the contract between N and P required P to pay invoices within 30 days. It said 
N knew the first payment had been missed by the end of November 2018. Euler Hermes 
said the terms and conditions of the policy required N to report any adverse events which 
might give rise to a claim. It said the maximum extension period for reporting was 60 days 
and the reporting limit was £5,000, so N should have reported the missed payment by the 
end of January 2019. Euler Hermes said if N had reported the missed payments when they 
should have done it would have passed the information to its collections agency or applied 
alternative credit limits. It said Mr H had sent an email to the customer service mailbox in 
March saying N might want to claim, but hadn't provided any of the details it needed.
Mr H didn't think it was fair for Euler Hermes to turn down N's claim. He said the directors of 
P had assured N the payments would be made. And reporting the debt to Euler Hermes 
would have adversely impacted the relationship between N and P. 
As Euler Hermes still thought it had correctly turned down N's claim, Mr H brought the 
complaint to us. He said the money owed had only become a debt once N knew P wouldn't 
be paying it. Euler Hermes said the maximum extension period had been reached on 30 
January 2019 and it was a condition precedent to liability that debts were reported in line 
with the limits set out in the policy. A condition precedent means that the policyholder is 
required to do something - in this case report the debt within the time limits set out in the 
policy - before the insurer has any liability to pay the claim. 
Our investigator didn't recommend that the complaint be upheld. He thought Mr H had let 
Euler Hermes know about a potential claim in March which should have alerted it to get in 
touch and find out more. However, he didn't think this mattered to the outcome of the claim, 
because he thought Mr H should have reported the claim by 30 January 2019. He thought 
that in reporting the claim later than it should have done N had most likely caused            
Euler Hermes a loss. Mr H didn't agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman's decision. He said N 
only knew there was likely to be a loss in March 2019 when P had gone into administration. 
He said before then P's directors had assured N the invoices would be paid. He said even if 
he'd reported the claim after the first missed payment it's likely Euler Hermes would have 
had to cover that first payment, so it should at least pay that part of the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've decided not to uphold it.
The terms and conditions of N's policy have a heading "What you must tell us". Under that it 
says:
"In relation to any Insured Buyer, every time:
a an Adverse Event occurs; or
b circumstances arise that would give a reasonable and prudent uninsured reason to believe 
that the Insured Buyer is or may be unable to meet their payment or any other obligations 
owed to you under the Contract; or
c a debt (including a debt subject to a Dispute) remains unpaid at the end of the Maximum 
Extension Period and after the total of all overdue debts in respect of the Insured Buyer has 
exceeded the Free Reporting Limit specified in the Schedule, whichever is the first to occur, 
you must within 14 days give us in the format required full details in writing, by mail, facsimile 
or electronically."
I can see that the policy schedule says the free reporting limit is £5,000 and the maximum 
extension period is 60 days. The policy defines the maximum extension period as the 
"maximum period specified in the Schedule by which you can extend the original due date 
for payment of any debt".
P was required to pay the first invoice by the end of November 2018 but didn't make the 
payment. I appreciate that the directors of P continued to assure N that the payment would 
be made. But the maximum extension period of 60 days had passed and I can also see from 
the invoices that the free reporting limit had been exceeded.
For those reasons I'm persuaded that is fair for Euler Hermes to say the maximum extension 
period was reached on 30 January and the debt should have been reported by 13 February 
2019 at the latest. I don't accept that N only needed to make Euler Hermes aware of the 
claim once it knew P was in financial difficulty. And I say that because it had missed 
payments, the maximum extension period had passed and the free reporting limit exceeded.
I agree with our investigator that N did make contact with Euler Hermes in March 2019. And I 
think that should have been enough for Euler Hermes to get in touch to clarify the further 
information it needed. However, I don't think that matters to the outcome of my decision. 
That's because even though N made contact in March 2019, that was still later than the 
policy required. 
I understand Euler Hermes said the term for reporting debts is a condition precedent to its 
liability. But in order to consider what's fair and reasonable in all the circumstances I've also 
thought about whether N reporting the claim late would have prejudiced Euler Hermes. By 
that I mean whether the late reporting would have made any difference to the amount Euler 
Hermes would have paid if it had been reported in time. Having done so, I'm satisfied that 
the late reporting did prejudice Euler Hermes. I say that because Euler Hermes said if it had known about the debt sooner it would have passed it to its collections company and been 
able to adjust any credit limits. That means Euler Hermes would still have had the 
opportunity to minimise N's losses and ultimately its own liability before P went into 
administration. So, I don't think it would be fair or reasonable of me to require Euler Hermes 
to cover any of the outstanding debt. 
I understand this isn't the outcome N was hoping for. However, I'm satisfied that              
Euler Hermes' decision to turn down the claim was fair and reasonable and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman