DRN-3365761
The complaint
Mr I complains that Nationwide Building Society refuses to refund payments he made to a 
scam binary options investment company. 
What happened
The facts of the case are well known to both parties so I dont intend to repeat them in detail 
here.
 
Mr I was persuaded to invest a total of £11,684.84 with a company Ill call L. He used his 
Nationwide Visa credit card to invest this money and made four payments between June 
2017 to September 2017. Mr I tried to withdraw his money from his trading account with L 
but was told hed have to trade over £600,000 and this wasnt explained at the point of sale. 
Mr I approached Nationwide for assistance with recovering his money. It reviewed his claim 
and declined to refund him on the basis that he didnt have enough evidence to show what 
was promised to him by L and that this was breached. It also noted that he didnt pay L 
directly and instead paid a company Ill refer to as O. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He initially felt that Nationwide ought to 
have pursued a chargeback claim and believed a claim under s.75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 would have succeeded. Nationwide didnt agree and provided additional information. It 
said Mr I was out of time for a chargeback claim to have been raised and he didnt provide 
the required evidence in any event. Our investigator issued a new view explaining that he 
didnt think chargeback or s.75 claims would have succeeded. Mr I asked for an ombudsman 
to review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint and Ill explain why. 
chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Nationwide) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Our investigator was correct when he explained that chargeback disputes against 
investment trading companies under the Visa chargeback scheme is limited and would 
require specific evidence. For a claim against L to have succeeded at the time of Mr Is 
payments, he would needed to have provided written documentation that L guaranteed an 
amount of profit/return he was due to receive. He didnt have this evidence and he also 
contacted Nationwide outside of Visas time limits, so Nationwide were correct to conclude 
the chargeback claim was made too late. I therefore dont think its unreasonable for 
Nationwide not to have processed chargeback claims for Mr I.
 
s.75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive reviewed whether Mr I could have claimed under s.75 but his claim fails at the first 
hurdle. For a claim to be considered under s.75, there first must be an unbroken debtor (Mr 
I)  creditor (Nationwide)  supplier (L) chain. But that chain appears to be broken because 
Mr I didnt pay L directly and instead paid O. Because of this, I dont think Nationwide acted 
unreasonably by declining his s.75 claim. 
unusual transactions
There are circumstances where we would expect a bank or building society to intervene 
when it suspects their customer might be the victim of fraud. So Ive thought about whether 
Nationwide ought to have suspected that Mr I was potentially falling victim to a scam. 
Ive noted that Mr I hadnt really used his Nationwide credit card account in the year leading 
up to the disputed payments, so I dont think Nationwide would have had a good idea of 
what normal account usage would have looked like for Mr I. The payments to O werent 
particularly unusual given that credit cards are commonly used for larger payments. The 
payments to O were also made in June 2017 and September 2017 and they were infrequent 
enough not to have caused Nationwide concern. So I dont think Nationwide should have 
reasonably suspected fraud.
 
Im empathetic to Mr Is losses and I dont dispute he fell victim to a scam. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think Nationwide acted unreasonably by declining to refund 
Mr Is disputed payments. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman