DRN-2975517
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr M are unhappy with Shawbrook Bank Limiteds response to their complaint 
about the outcome of their claim under, amongst others, Sections 56 and 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) for some mis-sold solar panels.   
What happened
Mrs A and Mr M are represented by solicitors. They brought a claim against Shawbrook 
alleging that the benefits of the solar panels and other energy saving devices (the system), 
bought from a supplier (G), were misrepresented to them. The solicitors brought the claim 
on a number of legal bases, although essentially Mrs A and Mr M said they would never 
have bought the system if theyd known that the benefits would be so much less than theyd 
been told.
Shawbrook considered their claim and accepted that the system had more likely than not 
been mis-sold by G. So, it offered to settle by recalculating the loan to make it self-funding 
over the original 15-year term. This would mean that Mrs A and Mr M would pay no more for 
the system than the energy saving benefits and the income they received from Feed-in-Tariff 
(FIT) and electricity export tariff payments. Shawbrooks calculations showed that over the 
years that the system had been in place, when Mrs A and Mr M had been paying the loan 
instalments, theyd paid more than the 15-year benefits already. So, Shawbrook would make 
a payment to them of the overpayments plus simple interest at 8% a year from the date the 
overpayments were made until theyre settled.
In addition to these payments, Shawbrook also offered to repair the system, as it appeared 
not to have been working since December 2018. So, Mrs A and Mr M had not been getting 
all the energy savings theyd have expected nor the FIT and export tariff payments. 
Shawbrook sent out an independent engineer to inspect the system who recommended 
some replacement electrical items, including the inverter, which Shawbrook offered to pay 
for. It also offered £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that Mrs A and Mr 
M suffered and said that it would correct their credit reports.
Mrs A and Mr M werent happy with this offer. They think the panels were poorly fitted in the 
first place and they were told that theyd be receiving income of around £85,000 over the 25-
year lifespan of the system. So, they wanted to be compensated for that loss as well and to 
have the panels removed.
Our investigator considered the evidence but thought the offer that Shawbrook had made 
was fair compensation. Mrs A and Mr M didnt agree, so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
May I firstly say that I completely understand why Mrs A and Mr M are upset about their 
whole experience with these solar panels. Not only do I expect they feel like they were lied to 
by G, they also feel theyve lost out on a significant amount of income.
Im very sorry about the time Mrs A and Mr M have had to wait for us to reach a decision on 
their case. Weve had a lot of similar complaints in the last couple of years and these have 
taken considerable time to work through.
Having looked at everything, Mrs A and Mr M will, Im afraid, be disappointed to hear that I 
agree with our investigator that Shawbrooks offer of compensation is fair and reasonable. Ill 
explain why below.
The parties have accepted that G most likely mis-represented the benefits of the system. So, 
I dont need to consider that in this decision. But I do agree that the system was more likely 
than not mis-sold. And Shawbrook must take responsibility for that under Sections 56 and 75 
of the Act.
What remains for me to decide is what fair compensation should be. As Mrs A and Mr Ms 
solicitors will be aware, this service has dealt with numerous complaints about mis-sold solar 
panel systems. And we have a general approach to compensation for these where fault is 
found, and a financial services provider is held responsible for any loss under Section 75 of 
the Act. Each complaint is looked at on its own merits, and compensation does sometimes 
differ, depending on the individual circumstances of the complainants. But we think that 
making a loan self-funding is often the fairest outcome. I dont think Mrs A and Mr Ms 
situation is sufficiently different to those other complaints for me to consider departing from 
the normal recommended redress.
The solicitors have helpfully given us information about the systems performance. And I 
have found that it was working up until December 2018. Whereafter the solar panel element 
of the system more likely than not ceased to work. So, Mrs A and Mr M have not had the 
income and electricity savings from the panels that they would have expected since then. 
Shawbrook will need to take this into consideration in their self-funding calculations.
Since the independent engineer went out, its also become clear that, as Mrs A and Mr M 
feared, the system may not have been fitted correctly. From the photos Ive seen, what 
appears to be the inverter and other electricals were surprisingly attached to the outside wall 
of the house, exposed to the elements. The solicitors have also said that they have concerns 
that the panels were fitted too close to the edges of the roof and a couple of chimneys. In 
carrying out any required repairs, I will expect Shawbrook to ask its expert to inspect the 
entire system to ensure that it is safe. And that it was fitted in accordance with regulations 
and best practice at the time the system was installed in 2013. If it wasnt, I shall expect 
Shawbrook to arrange for it to be fixed.
Determining compensation for the loss that Mrs A and Mr M have suffered is not an exact 
science. In deciding that making this loan self-funding and that the system should be 
repaired amounts to fair compensation, I consider that this is proportionate redress for the 
loss that Mrs A and Mr M will have suffered. I understand that the solicitors have put Mrs A 
and Mr Ms claim to Shawbrook on a number of alternative bases. And these include that 
there was a Section 140A unfair relationship under the Act, as well as the sale being in 
breach of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. But none of these 
things change what I think is fair compensation for the accepted mis-sale.
Mrs A and Mr M would like to be compensated for the lost income and savings of around 
£85,000 that they were told theyd get. But when determining these complaints, we dont 
look to make the representations true. Rather, we look to ensure that the customers havent 
suffered a loss. And thats why I think that making the panels self-funding amounts to fair compensation. That way the system is cost-neutral as far as Mrs A and Mr M are concerned. 
Once the system is working properly again, they will continue to receive FIT and export tariff 
payments as well as savings on their electricity bills. This will continue for the life of the 
system. To remove the panels and lose that future income is, I think, disproportionate.
I know that Mrs A and Mr M are concerned that the system may continue to cost them in 
repair bills for the future. But Shawbrook will be looking to put everything right now. And this 
includes the provision of a new inverter, which is one of the items that most likely would have 
needed to be replaced at some point over the 25-year life of the panels. Mrs A and Mr M will 
also have the ongoing revenue and electricity savings from the system. And I consider that 
this should more than compensate them for any maintenance charges that may arise in the 
future.
Mrs A and Mr M will clearly have been upset and inconvenienced through their treatment by 
G. But I can only ask Shawbrook to compensate them for how its actions have made that 
any worse. And here I think that Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for the way its 
made them feel is fair.  
The methodology that Shawbrook has used to calculate the compensation due to Mrs A and 
Mr M has been agreed with this service on previous complaints like this one. And I consider 
that it fairly determines the benefits of the panels to Mrs A and Mr M. Shawbrook should 
update the figures to the date any payment is made and/or applied to the loan account. And, 
as our investigator has said, it should also base its estimates on the FIT statements 
available and consult with the independent engineer appointed to inspect the system to 
ensure that the estimates of future benefit are in accordance with the panels likely 
generation.
My final decision
Shawbrook Bank Limited has made an offer to settle this complaint, which I consider to be 
fair compensation in all the circumstances. So, its my decision that I require that Shawbrook 
Bank Limited:
Recalculate the loan so that Mrs A and Mr M pay no more than the known and 
assumed savings and income that they will receive from the panels over the 15-year 
term of the loan. Shawbrook should take account in any calculations that the panels 
havent been working since December 2018 (until they are fixed) and consult with 
the independent appointed engineer to ensure that the predictions of the panels 
performance in terms of electricity generation are fair;
Allow Mrs A and Mr M to keep the solar panels and other energy saving devices;
Arrange for the repair of the system to include checking that the system is safe and is 
fitted in compliance with the regulations and best practice in place at the time it was 
originally installed, making any changes or repairs necessary;
Calculate any overpayments made by Mrs A and Mr M, apply them to the loan and 
repay them any balance;
Add simple interest at 8%* a year to any overpayments from the date that they were 
made to the date that they are effectively repaid;
Mark the loan as settled and arrange the removal of any negative entries on Mrs A 
and Mr Ms records with credit reference agencies that may have been reported for 
this loan; andPay Mrs A and Mr M £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to them.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Shawbrook deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mrs A and Mr M request it, Shawbrook should give them a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken off so that they may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman