DRN-3601204
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked their account for five days just before 
Christmas. 
What happened
Following a payment Mr W made to an individual for £978 on 17 December 2020, Lloyds 
sent him a text asking him to contact them. Following a discussion on the phone about the 
transaction, which Lloyds suspected was related to a scam, Mr and Mrs Ws account was 
blocked and he was asked to visit a branch to have a discussion and provide identification to 
unblock the account. Mr W was unhappy with this due to the risk of COVID-19 as his wife 
was vulnerable.
Mr W visited a Lloyds branch on 18 December 2020 and had a discussion with the branch 
staff. As a result of this, they invoked the Banking Protocol and called the police to come and 
have a discussion with Mr W. Mr W maintained the transaction was not related to a scam 
and asked for his account to be unblocked. 
Over the next four days, there were some phone calls between Mr W and Lloyds, as well as 
internal telephone calls within Lloyds to try and unblock Mr and Mrs Ws account. This was 
eventually resolved by Mr W making a second trip to the branch to unblock the account. 
Lloyds said that they had followed the correct process when blocking the account, but hadnt 
given good service overall with the number of calls Mr W had to make to get the account 
unblocked, as well as the second trip to the branch. Because of this, it gave Mr W £75 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused, as well as £10 for telephone call costs and £10 for 
parking. Mr W felt this was not enough and referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed that Lloyds had followed the correct 
process when blocking the account and asking Mr W to visit a branch. And they felt the £95 
compensation already offered and paid was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They felt that the whole account should not have been frozen and 
instead, just the individual transaction should have been. Mr W said he was made to feel like 
a criminal by the police and not a potential victim.  He did not think that COVID-19 as a 
factor had been taken into consideration and he also felt his credit could have been affected 
when his credit card was declined during this period. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the £95 already offered and paid is fair in the circumstances 
and I dont require Lloyds to take any further action. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ill firstly focus on the blocking of the account. Ive listened to the phone calls relevant to this 
complaint, including the conversation between Lloyds and Mr W when the payment of £978 
was flagged as a potential scam. 
In this, the member of staff explained that Mr and Mrs Ws account had been flagged by the 
fraud team as potentially being involved in a scam, due to previous payments in the days 
prior being sent to a company. The payment of £978 had been flagged as potentially part of 
the scam which is why Mr and Mrs W were asked to contact Lloyds. The caller explained the 
nature of the scam they felt Mr and Mrs W may have become victims of and asked Mr W for 
more information about the payment itself and who it was to. Mr W said he did not have to 
give any more information about the payment and that it was up to him how he spent his 
money. The call handler then said the block would be placed on Mr and Mrs Ws account 
and he would have to visit the branch to get it unblocked following a discussion about 
scams.
On balance, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to place a block on Mr and Mrs Ws account. 
They had legitimate concerns that Mr and Mrs W were financially at risk and victims of a 
known type of scam to Lloyds. As Mr W was unwilling to enter into a dialogue over the 
phone and there was potential for further payments to be made towards a possible scam, I 
think it was reasonable for Lloyds to place a block on the whole account and require Mr W to 
visit a branch to have a more in depth discussion about scams and their potential dangers 
and provide identification to unblock the account. While I do acknowledge Mr Ws concerns 
over COVID-19, I can only consider what actually happened and it appears, thankfully, there 
were no health-related consequences of Mr W visiting the branch on that occasion. 
When Mr W visited the branch the following day, there were still concerns over the 
transaction and whether it was linked to a scam. As a result, Lloyds staff at the branch 
invoked the Banking Protocol and asked the police to visit the branch and talk with Mr W. 
Ultimately, the Banking Protocol is designed to try and protect customers and I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Lloyds to have invoked it in this instance. As mentioned previously, 
they had legitimate concerns over the payment and their intention was to try and protect Mr 
and Mrs W. Ive considered Mr Ws comments that he felt like he was being treated like a 
criminal by the police. But as this complaint is about Lloyds, Im only able to consider their 
actions.
Mr W decided he wanted the payment to go ahead and he accepted any consequences of 
this. Unfortunately, the block should have been lifted while Mr W was in the branch as he 
was required to speak to the fraud team on the phone again for this to be completed. I 
understand the waiting times to get through to the fraud team were significant at the time 
and were throughout Mr W trying to unblock his account over the following few days. And 
this led to Mr W leaving the branch before this could be completed, to no fault of his own. 
Over the next few days, I think Lloyds attempted to work around their system and unblock 
the account without Mr W being required to go back into a branch. But it appeared this was 
not possible, and Mr W had to return to a branch. I do think this meant Mr W had to spend 
time on the phone and had to visit the branch a second time unnecessarily. And this 
undoubtedly caused Mr and Mrs W inconvenience and would have been frustrating to deal 
with. On balance, considering Mr and Mrs Ws account was blocked for a few additional 
days, there were some unnecessary phone calls and an additional trip to the branch, I think 
the combined total of £95 already offered and paid is around what I would have 
recommended in the circumstances. So, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything further to 
remedy the complaint.I note that Mr W is concerned that his credit file may have been affected by his credit card 
being declined in a store during this time. But I want to reassure him that this would not have 
negatively impacted his credit file.    
My final decision
I think the £95 already offered and paid is fair in the circumstances and I dont require Lloyds 
Bank PLC to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman