DRN-1952090
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains U K Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim on her buildings 
insurance for damage to a bay window in her home.
What happened
A third party representative has brought this complaint on behalf of Mrs M, so any reference 
I make to her actions include those of her representative.
Mrs M owns a property insured by a buildings insurance policy branded with the name of a 
high street bank. The policy is underwritten by UKI and its responsible for complaints about 
declined claims, so Ill refer to it throughout. 
The front bay of Mrs Ms property started falling away from the main part of the building, 
resulting in internal cracking and distortion of the ceiling. Mrs M had some corrective work 
done and her builder said the problem had been caused because the ring beams above the 
windows hadnt been built into the main fabric of the property.
Mrs M contacted UKI to make a claim on the policy. She explained shed had a survey of the 
damage undertaken by a window installation expert and it concluded the damage was 
caused by a problem with the installation of the windows in the bay as the bay was not 
supported properly. 
UKI initially declined the claim based on the information Mrs M provided but as she wasnt 
happy, it sent out an assessor to undertake an inspection. After this, UKI contacted Mrs M 
again and formally declined her claim explaining it believed damage had been due to 
material failure which caused the bay window to pull away from the brickwork. It considered 
the weight of the roof to be an additional contributing factor.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this and complained to UKI. It reiterated its position that the type of 
damage wasnt covered by Mrs Ms policy and the claim remained declined. So, Mrs M 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the evidence presented by Mrs M and UKI and didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mrs M asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise Mrs M will be disappointed 
by this decision, so Ill explain my reasoning.
When a policyholder wishes to make a claim on a policy, its their responsibility to 
demonstrate the claim is one thats covered by the policy. And when an insurer wishes to 
rely on an exclusion  and so decline a claim  it needs to demonstrate that exclusion 
applies.
Generally, insurance policies dont cover every eventuality or risk a house might experience 
over the years and Mrs Ms policy is no different. The terms and conditions of a policy will 
define what is  and what isnt  covered and they form the basis of the contract between the 
insurer and the policy holder. Im unlikely to tell an insurer it needs to pay a claim where 
theres no cover for it in the policy.
So, in reaching my decision on this complaint, Ill be considering what the terms and 
conditions say and the evidence provided by the parties, while keeping in mind what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable.
The cause of the damage 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the policy and in the section UKI has relied on to 
decline the claim, This policy doesnt cover it explains:
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials 
It seems theres broad agreement about the cause of the damage. Mrs Ms report from the 
window installation expert said the bay had been installed incorrectly and it wasnt supported 
properly. Her builder confirmed the bay wasnt supported properly as the ring beams above 
the window hadnt been built into the main body of the building. And UKI concluded from its 
investigation there had been a material failure caused by poor workmanship. 
From this, Im satisfied the damage has more likely than not been caused by poor 
workmanship and improper installation. Because of this, I think UKI has acted reasonably in 
relying on the exclusion to decline the claim 
I know, later, Mrs M suggested there may have been other reasons for the damage, 
including an earthquake that happened a number of years before. But she hasnt provided 
any evidence that supports this and given what Ive said about the broad agreement the 
parties reached about the cause, Ive not seen enough to persuade me an alternative cause 
is more likely than the conclusion reached by three separate specialists.  
Accidental damage cover
Mrs Ms policy does include cover for accidental damage and so, for the sake of 
completeness, Ive considered whether the damage may be covered by this part of the 
policy. 
The policy explains the cover:
Accidental damage to buildings
Accidental damage is sudden and unintentional physical damage that happens 
unexpectedly 
Mrs M reported to UKI she and her late husband had first started to notice cracks appearing 
over a year before she made the claim. So, it seems to me more likely than not this was 
damage that happened over a period of time rather than suddenly. Im therefore satisfied the 
damage isnt covered under this part of the policy either.
In summary, Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me UKI unfairly or unreasonably 
declined the claim so I wont be asking it to do any more.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman