DRN-1228982
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc placed a block on his credit card which prevented 
him from making an online purchase.  
What happened
Mr P was trying to pay for an online purchase using his credit card with Bank of Scotland, 
when the transaction was declined.
He found this was because a block had been placed on it, because he hadnt met the 
minimum required payment on another credit card he holds with the same banking group. It 
said it was its policy to apply a block to customers credit facilities if they are experiencing 
financial difficulties to help stop them getting further into debt.
Mr P was upset by this, as he hadnt asked for any financial support and his accounts were 
up to date. 
Bank of Scotland removed the block and made Mr P a payment of £30 for his inconvenience 
and £7 for his call costs. But Mr P didnt feel this was enough. He didnt think the two credit 
cards should be treated in the same way.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that information was shared within the same banking group to ensure it was being 
responsible with how it provides lending. He said that being aware of a customers 
circumstances was important to access whether borrowing arrangements remain suitable.
He said that Mr P had been able to order the item he was looking to buy once the block had 
been lifted from his credit card, and didnt think the delay had an impact on the reason why 
Mr P was buying it. So the investigator thought that the compensation Bank of Scotland had 
paid Mr P was fair.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate the points Mr P has made, and I can understand why he feels the credit 
facilities he holds with the same banking group shouldnt be treated in the same way.
However, I do feel that Bank of Scotlands aim in blocking this credit card was to try to help 
Mr P from possibly taking on more debt, when he may already have been experiencing a 
difficult financial time. I realise that Mr P hadnt asked for help with this particular credit card, 
but I dont think Bank of Scotland applied this block wrongly or unfairly in these 
circumstances.The block was removed once this was discussed with Mr P and Bank of Scotland had 
established that his credit card payments were up to date. As I understand it, Mr P was then 
able to make the purchase he wanted and, while this may have been a bit later than he 
expected, I havent seen that he was disadvantaged by this delay.
Bank of Scotland has paid Mr P a total of £37 to recognise the inconvenience he was 
caused by this situation, and for his expenses such as call costs. Taking everything into 
account, I think this represents a fair resolution to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman