DRN-4331163
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service Revolut Ltd provided after he was the victim of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Where the circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties, I wont detail them 
again here. Rather, Ill focus on setting out the key reasons for my decision. I hope Revolut 
and Mr C wont take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, which 
I will go on to explain. Before I do, I want to acknowledge that I understand my decision will 
be disappointing to Mr C. But based on the evidence, I am not persuaded that Revolut ought 
to refund the disputed transactions.
Its not in dispute that Mr C authorised the transactions in question. He was duped by the 
scammer into transferring the funds into a fabricated safe account. And its not in dispute 
that those payments were considered unusual given they were flagged to Revolut and 
prompted it to issue warnings/ask further questions through its in-app chat. So, Ive focused 
on the extent of Revoluts intervention and whether it couldve reasonably done anything 
more to prevent the scam.
On 6 April 2023, Mr C made the original payment of £250 and a couple of hours later Mr C 
made a following payment of £22,250. With the first payment Mr C made, I am satisfied it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Revoluts systems to have been triggered, I say this 
because its a relatively nominal amount and if Revolut were expected to check each 
transaction of this value it would cause significant inconvenience for its customers.
Mr C made the second payment of £22,250. This was was unusual and represented the 
largest occurrence of expenditure on the account in recent times. As such, I think it is 
reasonable to conclude that this ought to have triggered Bs fraud detection systems. 
Therefore, I think it would be reasonable to have expected Revolut to have taken steps to 
complete a formal intervention at that point by asking Mr C more questions surrounding the 
payment.
However, I have gone on to consider the events that surrounded the payment in question. 
When Mr C made the payment, he chose the option something else for the payment 
reason. I do note, there is an option for safe account which Mr C would have been able to 
see and select if hed wished to do so.
Despite that, Revolut provided a written warning about safe account scams in the in-app 
chat. The warning was quite long but in summary it outlined that, scammers may pretend to 
be financial institutions and contact you from numbers that appear to be trusted. The 
warning went on to say that scammers can often call and say your account is not safe and 
that you need to move your money to another account, a safe account. From reviewing Mr 
Cs testimony, I think its reasonable to conclude, the warning issued by Revolut summarised 
Mr Cs circumstances almost exactly. However, Mr C proceeded to make the payment. 
Therefore, I dont think Revolut ought reasonably to have had further cause for concern.
Even if its argued that Revolut could have attempted a more formal intervention and 
contacted Mr C to ask further questions, probed Mr C further or even highlighted again that 
safe accounts is a common scam, I am not persuaded this would have made any difference 
in this particular case. I say this for two reasons, firstly Mr C was told by the scammer not to 
talk to anyone as he wouldnt be covered by his insurance if he did. So, I think it is unlikely 
he would have spoken openly and honestly to Revolut if at all.
Secondly, the circumstances of this case are quite unique, as the scammer was on the line 
in real time with Mr C. So, where a scam may be unveiled in some circumstances by further 
probing, in this case as the scammer was on the phone to Mr C in real time, I think any 
further probing wouldnt have unveiled the scam as Mr C would have been told how to 
answer any further questions. And this is supported by Mr C choosing to put something else 
for the reason for payment and how he proceeded despite the receiving Revoluts warning.
I find this crucial, as Mr C was clearly relying more on the scammers advice and counsel, 
rather than the warnings and support from Revolut. As Mr C wasnt forthcoming with 
information (the real reason for making the payment) it meant that Revolut were not given 
critical insight into what was really happening. Therefore, even thought I accept that Revolut 
ought to have done more, I dont think its failure to probe further could reasonably be 
considered as the proximate cause of Mr Cs loss in these circumstances, as it seems likely 
he would have given misleading information and proceeded to make the transactions 
irrespective of any intervention due to the hold the scammer had over Mr C.
Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough to try and recover the funds after the 
fraud was reported. Revolut attempted to recover the funds but was told that the money had 
already been moved from the receiving accounts prior to the fraud being reported. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded it could have reasonably done anything more to recover Mr Cs 
funds in these circumstances.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr C, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Revolut can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman