DRN-3030779
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 1994. 
Mr and Mrs A say Santander UK Plc, Abbey National at the time, (Santander) mis-sold 
them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including the PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this 
information here. The policy cover was on Mr A only. He was employed at the time, had 
been for some years and, from what hes told us, he was entitled to less than three months 
sick pay and to redundancy pay worth less than twelve months pay. Hes told us of surgery 
he had around 11 years before the sale with which he missed five weeks work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Santanders offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs A paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. Mr and Mrs A also requested an ombudsmans decision. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs As. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Santander should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Santanders offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Santander made it clear Mr and Mrs A didnt have to take the PPI and they chose 
to take it. I say this because Mr and Mrs A havent said anything to make me think this 
wasnt made clear. Also, Mr A signed a separate PPI application to apply for the PPI and 
Mr and Mrs As mortgage application form had options to say either yes or no to PPI. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, so it had to check the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs As circumstances at the time, shows the 
policy wasnt unsuitable for them. For example, Mr A was the higher earner, was eligible 
for the cover and, from what hes told us of his work benefits, wouldve suffered a loss of 
income if accident, sickness or unemployment stopped him working for a longer time. So 
I think Mr and Mrs A had a need for the cover. I think it likely it was also affordable and I 
take into account that the monthly cost was set out on the PPI application form.
Nothing about Mr As employment or job wouldve made it hard to claim and what I have 
doesnt make me think the possibility of him suffering significant work absences related 
to the surgery hed had years earlier was so likely that the exclusion of such absences 
made the cover no longer worthwhile for him, taking into account what was still covered. 
So I dont think this made it wrong for Santander to recommend the cover and Mr A 
didnt have any other health issues the policy mightve excluded. Also Ive nothing to 
suggest there were additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose to take it, and the application forms told them it was 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover for the mortgage payments  so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for them, as I concluded above, and I 
think it wouldve been useful for them if something went wrong in the circumstances it 
covered. The application form also set out details of the cost and the monthly benefit. 
Overall, I dont think the PPI was too dissimilar to what its likely Mr and Mrs A thought 
they were buying from the information they were given  and, with this and all Ive said 
above in mind, I dont think they wouldve declined it had Santander done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs A wouldve still taken the PPI. Given their circumstances, I 
think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if Mr A couldnt work in 
the circumstances the policy covered. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its 
likely Mr and Mrs A thought they were getting  and, in all those circumstances, I think they 
wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value 
because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low 
claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed 
the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the 
impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
Mr and Mrs As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints. I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs As 
particular case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Santander should at times have disclosed the commission it 
received and that Santanders offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs A about the high levels of commission and profit share paid 
in this case. So, taking into account:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Santander and Mr and Mrs A was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Santander didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case;
I dont think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs A, 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs As representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary it has said Mr and Mrs A should get back all the money they paid for the policy 
because: Santander failed to tell Mr and Mrs A about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because it says 
that meant the policy was poor value, it says I should find that Mr and Mrs A wouldnt have 
taken the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipconsumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs A in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Santander not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs As representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Santanders failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Santander to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr and Mrs A paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves 
Mr and Mrs A with the policy Ive concluded above they wouldve still taken if Santander had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Santanders offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs As complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs A an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) - if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman