DRN-3281282
The complaint
Mr J complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) have made errors when 
recording a default on his credit file for his current account.
What happened
Mr J opened the current account in 2014, and unfortunately fell into financial difficulties in 
2015. Mr J got support from a debt charity, and his account with M&S was defaulted in 
June 2015.
As defaults should only show on credit files for six years, Mr J expected this to have dropped 
off by June 2021, but in July 2021 it was added back on. 
Mr J also had issues when the default should have been registered, with the date showing 
as June 2018, instead of 2015. And he said he agreed a settlement with M&S debt collector 
in September 2020 for the remaining balance, so it should show as partially settled on his 
credit file as well. Across a period of time he complained to M&S about these issues.
Mr J has told us these events have triggered past memories for him. I want him to know Ive 
read everything hes told us, but not set that out in detail here out of respect for his privacy. I 
am though genuinely sorry to hear of the very difficult time Mr J has had.
In a response on 16 March 2021 M&S said they were sorry information held by one of the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) was wrong. They said theyd sent a message to the 
CRAs to update the default date from June 2018 to June 2015.
In a response on 30 March 2021 M&S said they appreciated the concern Mr J was raising 
and were sorry theyd not recorded the account correctly. They said theyd checked his 
credit file, and although recording the correct default date, the account was showing as a nil 
balance, and not part satisfied as it should have been. They amended it, and to say sorry 
paid Mr J £200.
In a response on 5 May 2021 M&S said they were sure theyd sent the correct information to 
the CRAs and though it likely one of them was reporting the data incorrectly. They said they 
appreciated this matter has been going on for far too long, and its not acceptable. To finally 
resolve the matter, theyd arranged for all data held by the CRAs about this account be 
deleted. They also paid Mr J a further £150.
Overall Mr J remained unhappy with M&S responses, so he asked us to look into things.
One of our Investigators did so, and ultimately felt M&S had paid enough compensation to 
put matters right. Mr J though didnt agree saying his key concern now was the account had 
seemingly been closed, and then reopened. Our Investigator put this to M&S, who said there 
was an issue affecting customers accounts - including Mr Js  where defaults are 
reappearing on the credit file even after they should have dropped off. M&S explained they 
were investigating matters but this gave the impression of the account being closed (as it 
wasnt being reported anymore) and then reopened (as the default was now being reported 
again, albeit in error).
Having put this to Mr J, he didnt accept hed received a fair outcome overall, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr J had a complaint in September 2020 about the status of the account as well  
with him seemingly not being made aware his credit file would be affected by a payment 
plan. For this, M&S paid Mr J £250 compensation.
Factoring in the above responses as well then, for issues regarding his credit file Mr J has 
received £600 compensation.
Its not in question M&S have made multiple mistakes regarding Mr Js credit file. Ive listed 
out the various issues which either theyve paid compensation for, or that Ive seen myself 
when reviewing matters:
Not making it clear the account would show as partially settled on his credit file
Not showing the account as partially settled after telling Mr J this, when it should 
have been
Recording the default date as June 2018
Not recording the default date at all
Adding the default back after the six years when defaults should usually expire
Arranging for all data regarding Mr J to be removed from the CRAs, but that not 
working
M&S dont appear to dispute making errors for any of these issues.
The one outstanding matter to consider, aside from whether an appropriate amount of 
compensation has been paid, is whether M&S have acted correctly regarding the closure of 
the account.
Mr J says when he paid off an amount towards the balance to settle it in September 2020, 
he expected the account to be closed. He also says the account was closed at one point, as 
it didnt appear on the CRAs reports, but then it reappeared  suggesting itd been closed 
and then reopened. Mr J wanted to know why this happened.
M&S explained there is no set timeframe for an account to be closed. They said the last 
payment from Mr J was, as he said, in September 2020. They then wrote off the remaining 
balance in November 2020 and closed the account on 17 September 2021. 
While M&S may not have a set timeframe for the account to be closed, I do think taking a 
year is a very long time. Particularly in Mr Js circumstances where hes explained the impact 
continued correspondence is having on him. 
Its unclear at present whether the issue regarding the reporting is now resolved. While Mr J 
may find this comment unhelpful, if he remains unhappy with that matter, hell need to raise 
a new complaint.
Finally then, I need to consider whether the £600 compensation is sufficient. As Ive set out above, I do think M&S have made multiple errors regarding Mr Js account, 
and the reporting of it. And, I think the only reason these issues have been sorted out is 
because of Mr Js persistence in getting them sorted  which simply shouldnt be necessary. 
Added to that is the impact of having to deal with this matter has on Mr J which hes 
explained and which M&S are well aware of.
While Ive no wish to downplay the distress Mr J has experienced, taking everything into 
account I do think the £600 already paid is fair. I say that because although M&S have made 
multiple errors, I do think theyve genuinely tried to help Mr J. They agreed to remove all 
evidence of the accounts from CRAs before that would have happened anyway  this isnt 
something I could have required and is quite an unusual step. Each time, although things 
didnt go smoothly, M&S have engaged with Mr Js concerns and I think treated them with 
the seriousness which they deserved.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman