DRN-4299451
The complaint
Miss R complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled trying 
to fit a telematics device required by her car insurance policy. When I mention Admiral I also 
mean its suppliers.
What happened
Miss R took out a car insurance policy with Admiral in April 2022. The policy included a 
discount for fitting a telematics device (known as a black box).
A condition of the policy was that the device needed to be fitted in the first 30 days of cover. 
Admiral made arrangements to fit the telematics device but it cancelled the appointment. 
Miss R re-made the appointment, but Admiral again cancelled it. This second appointment 
was outside the 30-day limit.
Admiral tried to contact Miss R to make new arrangements to fit the device, but Miss R didnt 
respond.
Because it hadnt heard from her, Admiral cancelled the discount meaning that Miss R had 
to pay the full premium for the year, which was £762.75 more than she was expecting to 
pay.
Miss R complained to Admiral. It upheld her complaint in part because Miss R had been 
given poor information. It awarded her £125 in total, made up of £75 for its service during her 
complaint, and £50 for not responding quickly.
Miss R remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She remains happy to 
have the device installed. Our investigator looked into Miss Rs complaint and initially upheld 
it. Admiral didnt agree with the view and provided evidence of the number of attempts it had 
made to contact Miss R. Our investigator reconsidered the matter and didnt uphold Miss Rs 
complaint.
Miss Rs asked that her complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision in which I intended to uphold Miss Rs complaint:
Ive created a timeline of the events from when Miss R initially set up the policy:
26/4  installation booked for 14/5
13/5  Admiral left voicemail to cancel due to engineers illness  no copy of this call.
16/5  Call to rebook  Miss R did this and booked for 9/6 which was the next 
available appointment.
16/5  Admiral then realised it would not be able to do this appointment. Left 
voicemail to explain. No copy of this call.
18/5  Admiral voicemail asking Miss R to call back. Sent SMS with links to book new 
appointment
19/5  Admiral left voicemail asking Miss R to call back to arrange an appointment. 
Sent SMS with links to book new appointment
20/5  Contact attempt by Admiral  call terminated on being answered.
2/6  Admiral sent email cancelling 9/6 appointment and removing discount.
7/6  Complaint made, but Admiral failed to action it.
20/6  Further complaint made, but not recorded on Admirals system.
There followed a three-month delay in finding out what had happened with the install.
Admiral said it would pay Miss R a total of £125 for its actions in handling the complaint. It 
seems to me that Miss R was willing to have the device installed, and she made two 
appointments to have it done. I can see that both of these appointments were cancelled by 
Admiral.
Admiral has provided evidence that it contacted Miss R repeatedly about the second 
appointment. Ive listened to the voicemails Ive been provided, which dont seem to me to 
express the importance of the call. The first simply requests a call back. The second refers 
to making the appointment and asks for a call back.
There was another call to Miss R made the same day as the appointment was organised, 
but Admiral wasnt able to supply a copy of it.
Given Miss Rs willingness to re-make the appointment and her continued preference to 
have the device fitted even after she contacted this service, I find it difficult to say that 
Admiral told her with sufficient import about what was going to happen to her policy. After all, 
it had already made an appointment with her that was well outside the 30 days allowed 
under the terms of its policy  and Admirals own notes tell me that was the next available 
appointment.
So for Admiral to then increase the premium substantially on 2 June when Miss R was 
expecting to have the device fitted a week later I think is poor service. I think Admiral should 
have done more to contact Miss R and explain the situation.
Im minded to point out that if Miss R had made a third appointment with Admiral, this would 
have been even later in the year.
Admiral has said its terms and conditions say:
Installation
When must it be installed by?
You must get your device professionally installed within 30 days of the policy start 
date. If your device does not get installed, your telematics discount will be removed.
We, or our installers will contact you directly to confirm an appointment. If the 
appointment is not convenient, you may arrange to a more suitable appointment as long as it falls within the first 30 days of the cover period.
You must make all reasonable efforts to have the device fitted within the 30-day 
period and arrange a suitable location for the installation to take place. Charges for 
missed installation appointments are outlined in this policy guide.
If you fail to install your device within 30 days, we will revert your policy to a standard 
Admiral policy, in which case you will lose any discounts and policy features 
associated with the device. We will provide written notice of this loss of discount.
I think its also fair to say that Miss R should have perhaps done more to respond to Admiral. 
But again, I dont think Admirals communications with her contained enough clarity about 
the urgency of her situation.
Once Miss R had realised what was happening to her premium, she then contacted Admiral 
and complained. I can see from Admirals evidence that her complaint wasnt handled 
effectively even though she complained twice.
Given that she first complained before the date of the second appointment, I think Admiral 
should reasonably have dealt with Miss R by arranging the device to be fitted as soon as 
possible. Im not sure why it didnt try to do this  I can see in its terms and conditions that it 
has various charges for missed appointments, so it seems reasonable that it could have tried 
to resolve the situation.
I asked Admiral about this and it replied that it would not have been able to arrange to install 
or fit the box following the complaint being raised.
It seems to me that Admiral should have done something more here. It had an unhappy 
customer who d said she was still happy to have the telematics device fitted  and fitting it 
may well have resolved the situation entirely. Instead, Admiral didnt handle her complaint 
effectively or quickly leading to the compensation amount its already offered Miss R.
Admiral may ask what more it should have done to let Miss R know about removing her 
discount. Put simply, it had shown it was already willing to shift its own 30-day time limit by 
allowing Miss R to have an appointment about 7 days outside it. But the wording of its terms 
insists on its installation within that time limit and failure to do this means the discount is 
removed. So it seems to me that Admiral allow itself to flex the terms of the policy solely to 
benefit itself when its unable to perform the installation in time. And I dont think this is fair to 
Miss R.
I think its fair that I say Admiral should have made it explicitly clear that the appointment was 
critical for her to retain her discount when it left the messages about the second cancelled 
appointment. Instead its supplier left short messages asking for calls back, before Admiral 
made the unilateral decision to remove Miss Rs discount.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Admiral has acted fairly towards Miss R. I think it 
should refund her the overpayment shes made for the year because it cancelled both 
appointments and failed to communicate effectively with her about the impact of failing to fit 
the device on time.
But I dont think it needs to pay anything extra for Miss Rs distress and inconvenience 
because as I say above, I think she could have done more to recognise the repeated 
contacts as being something she needed to act on.
Responses to my provisional decisionBoth Miss R and Admiral accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my final decision and reasoning remain 
the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to refund £725.75 to Miss R in respect of the increased 
premium it charged her.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman