DRN-2177994
The complaint
Mr D complains about Vitality Health Limiteds decision to turn down his private medical 
insurance claim under his employers group scheme.
What happened
Mr D was referred to a consultant for a review of his health in May 2019. Mr D contacted 
Vitality to make a claim for that consultation, and Vitality requested some information to 
establish the reason for the referral. Mr D instead went ahead with the consultation and he 
was advised by his consultant that he needed to be admitted to hospital. 
After receiving the medical information, Vitality turned down the claim. It noted that Mr Ds 
hospital admission was needed for nourishment due to his poor nutritional state and 
deconditioning. Vitality said the treatment wasnt needed for a disease, illness or injury as 
required by the policy, but was instead needed for rehabilitation purposes. It concluded that 
the treatment Mr D received wasnt eligible under the policy terms. Unhappy with this, Mr D 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been 
reasonable for Vitality to conclude that Mr D hadnt received eligible treatment for an acute 
medical condition, as required under the policy terms for a claim to be payable. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say:
The purpose of this plan is to provide you with cover for eligible treatment, once youve 
been referred for further treatmentthat:
aims to cure an acute condition or the acute flare-up of a chronic condition or to 
return you to your state of health immediately before suffering an acute condition or 
acute flare-up of a chronic condition.
Acute condition is defined as:
A disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to return 
you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
Treatment is defined as:
Surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose, 
relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
Diagnostic tests are defined as:
Investigations, such as x-rays or blood tests, to find or to help to find the cause of your 
symptoms.
Therefore, in order for me to require Vitality to pay Mr Ds claim, Id need to be satisfied that 
his hospital admission was necessary in order for him to receive treatment needed to relieve 
or cure a disease, illness or injury. Or alternatively, that it was needed so that investigations 
could be carried out to establish the cause of his symptoms in order to diagnose a disease, 
illness or injury.
When Mr D first asked Vitality to pay the claim for his hospital admission, he advised it that 
the admission was required because he needed to receive nourishment for a few days. 
In 20 May 2019 Mr Ds treating specialist (Dr R) wrote to Vitality. He said Mr D had a 
complicated medical history which included heart surgery, fungal infection of his heart 
bypass wound (and was still on treatment for this), general malaise, loss of appetite, and 
weight loss over a six-month period. Dr R said he had spoken to a dietician at hospital and 
they had agreed with him that Mr D should be admitted for naso-gastric feeding to improve 
his nutritional state which was very poor. Dr R concluded by saying that Mr D was very de-
conditioned and almost unable to walk, and he would appreciate it if they could admit him for 
NG feeding. 
After Vitality advised Mr D that it wouldnt cover his admission for nutrition, Dr R wrote to 
Vitality again on 24 May 2019. He said Mr D went to see him on 17 May 2019 and his state 
of health was extremely poor - he was unable to walk and needed to use a wheelchair. Dr R 
explained that he had advised Mr D that he wanted to admit him to hospital. He further 
explained that the exact reason for Mr Ds frail state could not be determined at that time. Dr 
R said it was possible that one of his problems was the complex nature of his medication 
regime. Finally, he said Mr D also needed extensive physio as is mobility was very poor, and 
that he suspected Mr Ds general disability may be due to an ongoing infection and its 
treatment as well as his recent heart surgery.
Vitality makes the point, which I think is quite reasonable, that Dr R had initially said Mr Ds 
admission was needed for nutrition, but then changed this to later infer that Mr D had 
complications relating to an infection from his previous heart surgery. 
Given the discrepancy between Dr Rs rationale for Mr Ds hospital admission, Vitality 
requested the contemporaneous nurses notes, taken during the admission. 
Ive looked carefully at these notes, and these confirm the reason for the admission was NG 
feed regime, they later also say loss of appetite, malaise, admission for NG feeding, 
dietician input, 24kg weight loss in 6mo, recent MVR and bypass, post op fungal infection.
The NG feeding tube was inserted, and then a chest X-ray taken to check the positioning of 
this. It was noted that Mr Ds treatment plan was IV fluids and a dietician for his loss of 
appetite, weight loss and general malaise. Mr D was also noted to be breathless, and the 
treatment/management plan for that was a dietician, a chest x-ray, and bloods. The majority 
of the remaining nurses notes related to nutrition and physio.
Mr Ds treating dietician in the hospital wrote to his GP on 27 May 2019. She said [Mr D] 
was referred to our service for nutrition support secondary to weight loss and poor appetite. He was started on an overnight nasogastric feed to help meet his nutritional needs and 
facilitate weight gain. His appetite has improved and he is gaining weight steadily. It was 
agreed that oral nutritional supplements would be started as he is weaned off his nasogastric 
feed to continue to meet his requirements for weight maintenance/gain.
Based on the evidence, I think it was reasonable for Vitality to conclude that Mr Ds hospital 
admission was for nutrition support  this was confirmed in the contemporaneous nurses 
notes, as well as by Mr Ds dietician. 
It is of course not in dispute that Mr D needed nutrition support to help improve his 
symptoms of weight loss, general malaise, and deconditioned state. However, this wasnt 
treatment needed to relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury, and nor was it needed for 
diagnostic purposes. Consequently, I dont think he had eligible treatment for an acute 
medical condition, and so doesnt meet the policy requirements for his claim to be paid. 
Whilst I recognise that my decision will disappoint Mr D, Im satisfied that Vitality turned 
down his claim in line with the policy terms.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr d to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman