DRN-4480645
The complaint
Ms L complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon failed to treat her fairly when 
she made a contribution to her pension savings in May 2022. 
What happened
Ms L holds pension savings with Aegon. Those pension savings had formerly been part of a 
Group Personal Pension plan, but had previously been converted to an individual pension 
plan. In May 2022 Ms L sent Aegon a request to make a contribution to her pension savings. 
This was the first contribution Ms L had made since the pension savings had been converted 
to the individual pension plan.
The initial request Ms L sent was incorrect. She had added the tax relief she expected to 
receive to the amount of her contribution. So she sent a corrected instruction to Aegon 
around a week later, and paid the amount of the contribution to the firm. Aegon says that 
Ms L attempted to call the firm to discuss the contribution but failed to pass the required 
security questions so it couldnt deal with her query.
Two days later Ms L contacted Aegon by secure message to query why the payment she 
had made was not showing on her online account. Aegon responded to that query by email 
telling Ms L that it can take up to 15 working days for her payment to be processed. 
Aegon started to process Ms Ls payment the following day. But it noticed that, since this 
was the first contribution Ms L was making since the conversion of the plan, it would need 
her to complete a Plan Alteration form. It sent her a request, attaching a link to the form via 
email. Ms L says that email was routed to her junk inbox so she didnt immediately receive 
it. 
Around ten days later, on 22 May, Ms L submitted a complaint to Aegon about the delays to 
her contribution being applied. She asked that Aegon either apply the contribution, with 
interest, and apologise for the delay, or that the payment be returned to her. Aegon says that 
it has no record of Ms Ls email being received. It says it was experiencing some IT 
problems at that time that might explain the missing email.
Aegon sent another email to Ms L on 26 May repeating its request for the Plan Alteration 
form. Ms L again says that email was routed to her junk inbox so she didnt immediately 
receive it. Ms L says that she chased a response to her complaint on 8 June, which Aegon 
says it didnt receive. And Aegon again chased the completion of the Plan Alteration form 
the following day  once more the request went into Ms Ls junk folder.
Ms L located Aegons emails in her junk folder on 13 June. She emailed Aegon to express 
her disappointment that the firm had failed to follow up the lack of response to the emails 
either by phone or letter. And she explained that she didnt have a printer so would need a 
paper copy of the form sending to her. Aegon told Ms L it had registered a complaint for her, 
but it failed to note her request for a paper copy of the form  it just sent another link to the 
electronic version.
The following day Ms L sent Aegon a copy of the form she had completed electronically. She 
asked that, if Aegon couldnt accept the electronic form, it should return her contribution. 
Aegon sent Ms L a paper copy of the form but she says that wasnt received. Aegon sent a 
further copy to Ms L on 28 June and apologised for not sending the paper copy before. It 
asked whether Ms L still wanted to cancel her instruction and told her she could ignore the 
form if that was her choice. Ms L told Aegon shed clearly stated that if the electronic version 
was inacceptable her contribution should be returned.
Aegon issued its final response to Ms Ls complaint on 4 July, and returned her contribution 
two days later. Aegon told Ms L that it thought it had dealt with her requests in line with its 
published SLAs. It said it could be held responsible for its emails being held in Ms Ls junk 
folder. Aegon told Ms L that it didnt think it had done anything wrong so it wouldnt be 
adding any interest to her returned contribution. Unhappy with that response Ms L brought 
her complaint to us.
Ms Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think any 
avoidable delays had been caused to the application or return of Ms Ls contribution. He 
thought that generally Aegon had acted within its stated SLAs and that the communication 
methods it had chosen had been reasonable. He thought it was fair for Aegon to require a 
wet signature on the form that it had asked Ms L to complete. So he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Ms L didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms L and by Aegon. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It seems clear that the application of the contribution that Ms L wanted to pay didnt run as 
smoothly as either she, or Aegon, would have wanted. But what I need to decide in this 
decision is whether those problems were because of something Aegon did wrong, and most 
importantly whether any avoidable delays have caused Ms L to lose out.
Ms L says that she initially contacted Aegon through its secure messaging service. She says 
that she only swapped to email when those messages didnt seem to be getting any 
response. And Aegon says that it responded to Ms L using the contact channel that she had 
selected  the responses it sent were to her emails and hence that was the method it used. 
I dont think that is an unreasonable approach to take.A number of emails that Aegon sent to Ms L were miscategorised by her email application as 
being junk mail. So those emails were not immediately visible to Ms L until she periodically 
checked her junk folder. I can understand why those delayed responses would have been 
disappointing to Ms L, but I cannot conclude the mis-categorisation of the emails was the 
responsibility of Aegon. There was nothing in the emails it sent that indicated they were junk 
messages, and Aegon has no control over how incoming emails are treated by Ms Ls email 
software.
I have thought carefully about whether Aegon should have tried to contact Ms L through 
other means when it got no response to its email messages. On balance I think Aegon is 
treading a difficult line here between ensuring its contact is in the form a consumer expects, 
and ensuring its communications are received. There might be any number of reasons why a 
consumer wouldnt want to receive letters, or telephone calls, in relation to their pension 
plans. So I cannot conclude that Aegon acted unreasonably in not trying alternative means 
of contact with Ms L.
It does seem that Aegon initially missed Ms Ls request for a paper copy of the plan 
alteration form. But it seems to me that, by the time Ms L had let Aegon know a paper copy 
was needed, she had already reached the point where she had decided not to proceed with 
making the contribution. In the email she sent to Aegon on 14 June  the day after she had 
discovered the mis-filed emails in her junk folder  she told Aegon that she requested the 
return of her contribution if the form she had submitted electronically was insufficient.
The delays that had taken place until that point were caused by Aegons emails routing to 
Ms Ls junk folder. As Ive said earlier, Aegon isnt responsible for how Ms Ls email 
application classified its messages. So I dont think that Aegon caused the delays that led to 
Ms L deciding to request the return of the contribution that she had made. It therefore follows 
that I dont think Aegon should be required to pay any interest to Ms L for the period of time 
that it held her contribution.
Aegon returned the contribution to Ms L two days after it had issued its final response on her 
complaint  and around 15 working days after she made her request for its return. I dont 
think those time periods were unreasonable and so I dont think that Aegon did anything 
wrong in that respect either.
I appreciate that my decision will be very disappointing for Ms L. It is clear that she paid a 
contribution to Aegon in good time, and had a reasonable expectation that it would be added 
to her pension savings. But I think Aegon dealt with that request efficiently, and cant be held 
responsible for its requests being mis-filed by Ms Ls email software. I dont think the request 
Aegon made, for a wet signature to be added to the Plan Alteration form was unreasonable. 
So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Equitable Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman