DRN-3703148
The complaint
Ms T complains an appointed representative of The London Trading Company (UK) Limited 
(The London Trading Company) gave her unsuitable advice to move from one self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) to another to invest in a discretionary portfolio.
What happened
Ms T says in 2017 Mr G of SG Capital Management Limited (SG) advised her to switch her 
SIPP to another company to invest in a discretionary portfolio. At that time, she was in her 
early 50s and was unemployed receiving tax credits. She says that other than a £180,000 
property, her only asset of value was her pension and she had no investment experience. 
She now believes the advice she was given wasnt in her best interests.
SG was an appointed representative of The London Trading Company between 
20 September 2016 and 1 February 2018. The complaint has therefore been made against 
The London Trading Company.
Ive been provided with a copy of a SG fact find dated 7 November 2017, as well as a 
Saxo Capital Markets account application form signed on 7 November 2017 which confirmed 
The London Trading Company as Ms Ts investment adviser. The account was to be held in 
Ms Ts new SIPP and The London Trading Company had a power of attorney in place in 
relation to the account. The Saxo application was made under an introducing broker 
agreement between The London Trading Company and Saxo.
Mr G sent the SIPP application form and the transfer in form to the new SIPP provider on 
20 November 2017. And a discretionary asset management agreement was entered into 
between SG and Ms T on the same date.
The new SIPP provider emailed Mr G on 5 December 2017 thanking him for the SIPP 
application and asking some questions, including about Ms Ts income. Mr G replied to that 
email confirming Ms Ts income was correct and that everything had been approved at his 
end.
The SIPP was set up on 21 December 2017. £98,300.91 was received from Ms Ts previous 
SIPP on 12 January 2018 and a further £37.86 on 1 August 2018. £96,826.91 was 
transferred to the SG Capital Management portfolio on 23 March 2018 and this was then 
invested. It seems the money was moved to another account on 3 July 2019 but was still 
invested at that point.
Ms T became concerned about the value of her SIPP and her representative complained to 
The London Trading Company about the advice it said Mr G had given her. It didnt receive a 
response, so it brought Ms Ts complaint to this service. Around that time  on 9 December 
2019  £17,039.79 was withdrawn from the portfolio. It seems a further withdrawal  this 
time of £5,506.55  was made on 18 December 2019. And it then seems all the holdings 
were sold on 28 February 2020, leaving a cash balance of £66,163.20 as at 28 May 2020.
The London Trading Company said it isnt responsible. It said it hadnt given any advice and 
had simply acted as an introducing broker and carried out investment management services 
on a discretionary investment basis. It also said its not authorised to advise on pension 
transfers and so Mr G wouldnt have been permitted to carry out a pension transfer under 
the appointed representative agreement SG had with it.
I issued a decision saying I was satisfied we could consider Ms Ts complaint against 
The London Trading Company. I said that under the appointed representative agreement, 
SG was authorised to give investment and pension advice and to make arrangements in 
relation to investments and pensions. Although there was a restriction in relation to pension 
transfers, I was satisfied this transaction involved a pension switch rather than a pension 
transfer. And I couldnt see any restrictions relevant to pension switches. So, I said The 
London Trading Company is responsible for any advice given or arranging done. And I said 
that even if the regulated activity of advising hadnt happened, the regulated activity of 
arranging had.
An investigator then issued a view on the merits of the complaint. He was satisfied it was 
most likely Ms T had been advised and that advice wasnt suitable. So, he recommended 
she be compensated using an appropriate index.
The London Trading Company didnt respond. The issue has therefore been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my decision of 19 July 2022, I decided that Ms Ts complaint is one the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can consider, and The London Trading Company is responsible for 
any advice given or arranging done in the circumstances here. The London Trading 
Company didnt respond to that decision and my findings havent changed so I wont repeat 
them here. This decision therefore is to decide whether Ms Ts complaint should be upheld.
In my jurisdiction decision, I didnt need to make a finding on whether or not Mr G advised 
Ms T to switch her pension to a SIPP because I was satisfied we could consider the 
complaint even if he didnt. But like the investigator, Im satisfied its most likely Mr G did 
make this recommendation. I say this because:
The fact find Ms T completed was an SG fact find.
The New SIPP Checklist recorded SG as the IFA.
Given Ms Ts circumstances and the fact she wasnt an experienced investor, it 
seems unlikely to me that shed have made the decision to switch her pension to 
invest in a discretionary portfolio without receiving advice.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on businesses in assessing the suitability of 
investments. Theyre the same things I look at when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information 
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the 
advice; their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch? And in 
circumstances where the switch was made to allow particular investments, as was the case 
here, Im satisfied the suitability of those investments must form part of the advice given to 
the consumer.
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch and underlying investment to be in Ms Ts 
best interests to make the advice suitable. 
As the investigator explained, the portfolio Ms T invested in made regular transactions and 
had lots of costs including transaction charges and performance fees. This increased the 
level of returns that would need to be generated simply to stand still. I cant see that Mr G 
gave her a comparison of her previous arrangement with what he recommended. And 
theres nothing that suggests there was a clear potential for her to be better off because of 
his recommendation. 
Its clear Ms T wasnt a sophisticated investor and given her age and that she wasnt 
working, Im not persuaded she was able to absorb a loss. In her circumstances, the fees 
were unlikely to be worthwhile. And taking everything into account, Im not persuaded the 
advice given here was suitable. Like the investigator, Im satisfied a simple, low-cost, 
arrangement would have been suitable advice.
Putting things right
My aim is that Ms T should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I think Ms T would have invested different. Its not possible to say precisely what she would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms T's 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.
As set out above, all the holdings were sold on 28 February 2020, after the complaint had 
been made. Like the investigator, Im satisfied the loss should be calculated on that date 
using the index set out, and then brought up to date using the same index.
What must The London Trading Company do?
To compensate Ms T fairly, The London Trading Company must:
Compare the performance of Ms T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. 
The London Trading Company should add interest as set out below.
The London Trading Company should pay into Ms T's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If The London Trading Company is unable to pay the total amount into Ms T's 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it 
isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Ms T wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Ms T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Ms T would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Ms T £200 for the trouble and upset shes been caused by the unsuitable 
advice. Ms T has explained that this was her only pension provision and taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied that the loss of a portion of it would have 
caused her much upset.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If The London Trading Company deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Ms T how much has been taken off. The London 
Trading Company should give Ms T a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms T 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
(start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
growthAdditional 
interest
SIPP Still exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investment28 
February 
2020Apply the 
benchmark to 
the crystalised 
loss as at 28 
September 
2020 until the 
date of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment on 28 February 2020.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal made should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is 
a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if The London 
Trading Company totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the fair value instead of deducting periodically.The crystalised loss on 28 February 2020 should then be brought up to date using the same 
benchmark to establish the current loss.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms T wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms T's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ts complaint. My decision is that The London Trading Company (UK) Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
The London Trading Company (UK) Limited should provide details of its calculation to Ms T 
in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman