DRN-3363529
The complaint
Mr H complains that Society of Lloyds (SoL) avoided his buildings insurance policy when he 
tried to make a claim for subsidence. Any reference to SoL includes its agents.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr H took out a buildings insurance policy. In May 2021, Mr H contacted 
SoL to report what he believed was subsidence damage. SoL instructed a loss adjuster, who 
went to inspect the property. The loss adjuster said there was evidence of historical 
cracking, the property was in a poor state or repair and questioned if the level of cover was 
sufficient. 
SoL said when the policy was taken out, Mr H had answered the question it asked about the 
state of the building as being in a good state of repair incorrectly. It says it reached this 
conclusion based on both the state of the property as determined by the loss adjuster and 
the first report from the independent contractor Mr H instructed to assess his property. In this 
report from April 2021, it was noted the cracks began eight and 10 years ago. On this basis, 
SoL considered this to be a qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy 
and return the premiums.  
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought SoL hadnt acted unfairly. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and agreed SoL was entitled to avoid 
his policy. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Specifically, Mr H said SoL was incorrect in quoting the timeframe of eight to 10 years of 
cracking being present. The expert he appointed provided further clarification that the 
cracking was minor when first noticed, and it wasnt right to think he would have lived with 
the more significant cracking for so long. And that much of the cracking was in an 
outbuilding, not the house and he didnt consider the outbuilding was covered by the policy. 
Mr Hs key point was the cracking in the utility room was noted to be minor and surface level 
and the second and more accurate conclusion of his structural engineer was that the more 
significant cracking was recent in nature. As this matter was unresolved, it was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr H has raised other concerns about the qualification of the loss adjuster sent 
by SoL and there was later a query about whether come outbuildings and stables were 
covered by the property. My decision here focuses on what I consider to be the central issue 
of this complaint  which is whether SoL was entitled to avoid Mr Hs policy. I trust both sides 
wont take this as a discourtesy, but rather as a reflection of our informal role. 
 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
SoL says Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when the 
policy was taken out in September 2020. It focused on the question which asked if the 
building was in a good state of repair. Mr H answered yes. But SoL considers this is a direct 
contradiction to the first report provided by Mr Hs expert which said cracks appeared 
between eight and 10 years ago, some of which had been filled and reopened five years ago 
and got progressively worse.  
The question asked of Mr H when he took the policy out was:
Are the Buildings
b) in a good state of repair and will it be so maintained?
Mr H had to give a yes or no answer to this question and answered yes. This means he 
considered the property to be in a good state of repair. SoL considers Mr H misrepresented 
the condition of the property. 
Ive looked at what Mr H has said about the cracking. He later clarified, and asked his 
building consultant to do so too, he genuinely believed any cracking in the property to be 
minimal surface cracking only, and not something he needed to mention. The report also 
says cracking of concern and the floor misalignment was noticed in late 2020 and 
progressed quickly. There is a contradiction between the two reports provided by Mr Hs 
expert, and the contradiction is based on when the cracking was first evident. The second 
report containing the clarification was instructed after the policy was avoided.
Mr H has suggested that proper consideration hasnt been given to the second report, where 
amendments were made to the findings and comments in the first report. However, Id like to 
assure him Ive carefully considered both reports.
Having done so Im more persuaded by the report instructed in April 2021, before Mr H 
raised the claim with SoL. This report set out that when the cracking (whether surface or not) 
was first identified several years before being notified to SoL. And given the report clearly 
noted Mr H was aware of the cracking several years ago, and that it had progressed over 
time. I cant see weve been given any reason for this report to have set out the timeframe of 
eight to 10 years unless this had been given by either Mr H or someone else who had 
detailed knowledge of the property.
The second report was instructed after the policy was avoided, with Mr H keen to seek what 
he considered to be clarification. But to my mind, the clearest and most persuasive 
explanation of the history of the cracking to the property was set out in the first report. I think 
based on the two reports, I think it is more likely than not, Mr H was aware of the presence of 
cracking in the property before the policy was taken out. It follows, I dont think he answered the question about the current state of the properly accurately, or that reasonable care was 
taken when answering the above question. 
As Ive agreed with SoLs conclusion Mr H failed to take reasonable care when answering 
the question about the state of the property, I now need to decide if the misrepresentation 
was a qualifying one. Essentially this means I need to decide if Mr Hs answer to this 
question influenced whether SoL would have offered him the policy.
SoL has provided this service with an extract from its underwriting criteria which sets out that 
if a property shows signs of subsidence, or (amongst other things) had been monitored for 
subsidence, cover wouldnt have been offered. This was because the buildings risk would 
not have been considered acceptable to the insurer. Based on the underwriting criteria, Im 
satisfied if Mr H had declared the cracking when he made the application for the policy, 
cover would not have been granted.  
This means Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. SoL has said they 
consider Mr Hs misrepresentation was reckless. I agree with this view, as I think based on 
the first report from Mr Hs expert, it more likely than not that the cracking had been present 
before the policy was taken out and potentially, for as long as set out in the report. 
As Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation should be treated as reckless, Ive looked at the 
actions SoL can take in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRA sets out that were there is a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the policy can be avoided  which happened here. SoL also 
refunded the premiums Mr H paid, along with simple interest at 8%. SoL hasnt shown it 
would be fair for it to keep the premiums, so Im satisfied it has acted reasonably in refunding 
these when it avoided the policy.  
In summary, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, Im satisfied SoL was entitled to avoid Mr Hs 
policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  this policy never 
existed, SoL does not have to deal with his claim for subsidence to the property. As CIDRA 
reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing SoL to 
rely on it to avoid Mr Hs policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman