DRN-3098014
The complaint
Ms H is complaining about the way Nationwide Building Society has handled a chargeback 
request she made following a transaction on her basic bank account. Shes also complaining 
about the way its treated her  particularly failing to make reasonable adjustments to 
support her.
What happened
In August 2017 Ms H contacted Nationwide to raise a dispute about a transaction shed 
made on her account of £145. She explained shed entered into a contract with a third party 
to supply and fit a window and they agreed a date for the window to be fitted. Unfortunately 
Ms H had to go into hospital on that date so she asked the supplier to fit the window on a 
different date. Ms H said the supplier later contacted her to say he couldnt fit the window on 
that date because he said his supplier had sent him the wrong window. Ms H says she 
asked to cancel the contract because the window wasnt being installed in time and asked 
for a full refund.
Ms H further explained that the supplier wouldnt allow her to cancel the contract. She said 
he agreed to refund the cost of installation, but not the cost of the window. She also said he 
was rude and threatening to her.
Nationwide wrote to Ms H and asked her to send full details of her claim in writing to enable 
it to process the chargeback. Ms H called back and said, due to her disability, she was 
unable to send anything in writing.
Nationwide investigated the chargeback and wrote to Ms H to say it would credit her account 
with £145. In January 2018 it wrote to her again and said it wasnt upholding the claim as it 
said the supplier had explained theyd issued a partial refund in respect to the installation 
and theyd supplied the window. So the supplier disputed that any further refund was 
warranted. Nationwide said it was a fair response. So it explained it would be re-debiting the 
account with the £145 in 22 days time.
On 5 February 2018 Ms H called Nationwide to complain about the outcome and reiterated 
about the way the supplier had treated her. She said it was unfair Nationwide was going to 
take the money back. The call handler said the credit given in September 2017 was a 
temporary credit and said the money would be taken back. Ms H didnt agree and she said 
she would close her account before it could do so.
The call handler said Nationwide would take the money that day. Ms H asked that the money 
didnt get taken out of her account because she said it would mean she wouldnt have any 
money to feed herself or pay her rent. And she said she would look to end her life if it took 
the money. Nationwide still took the money from her account that day and Ms H entered into 
an unarranged overdraft. 
Nationwide responded to Ms Hs complaint the next day. It apologised for any distress and 
inconvenience she may have suffered as a result of it declining the chargeback claim. But it 
said it had followed the correct process. It said it had listened to the telephone call Ms H had, 
but it didnt think it had seen anything to show the call handler had treated Ms H unfairly. 
However, around two weeks later, Nationwide took the £145 from her bank account again. It 
swiftly realised the mistake it had made and recredited the money back into her account the 
next day. But Ms H complained again that this had caused her further distress and 
inconvenience. Nationwide offered Ms H £50 in compensation for this. Ms H said she 
considered this compensation an insult as she said its actions had caused her to attempt to 
take her life. Nevertheless Nationwide sent the £50 compensation to her by cheque. 
Ms H later contacted Nationwide again to complain about the outcome of her chargeback 
and Nationwide agreed to offer a temporary overdraft to enable her to get back on track. 
Ms H queried why she wasnt offered an overdraft when she first called to ask Nationwide 
not to take the money from her account. She also complained it had sent her the cheque 
when shed specifically said she didnt accept it. Nationwide reiterated it thought it had 
handled the chargeback fairly, but it offered a further £25 in compensation for sending the 
cheque, which it paid directly into her bank account.
Ms H contacted Nationwide again and said she intended to refer her complaint to this 
service, but, so that she could do this, she asked it to send her copies of all the letters it had 
sent her and the telephone calls shed had. Nationwide arranged for a subject access 
request to be made.
Ms H continued to complain about the way Nationwide had handled her chargeback claim. 
She also complained about the way one of Nationwides call handlers spoke to her in 
June 2018. Nationwide responded and accepted that the call in question could have been 
handled better and it offered her £125 in compensation. It also said it would review the claim 
again. But it later contacted her to say it still remained of the belief that it had handled the 
claim fairly. 
In August 2018 Nationwide sent Ms H the documents requested through her subject access 
request.
Nationwide later contacted Ms H to say it would be removing her overdraft facility as shed 
exceeded her overdraft limit. Ms H called Nationwide again and said this was unfair and 
would mean she had no money for food. Nationwide agreed, as a goodwill gesture, to refund 
£30 of historic bank charges to enable her to access funds. And it also agreed to reset the 
overdraft arrangement. But the call handler explained to Ms H that she needed to keep 
inside the limit of her overdraft.
In February 2019 Ms H called to raise further complaints about the way Nationwide was 
treating her, largely reiterating the same concerns shed raised before. But she raised a 
further complaint about the way Nationwides complaint handler had treated her. In particular 
she highlighted shed asked Nationwide to make a reasonable adjustment and it hadnt 
adhered to this. Ms H had asked Nationwide to write to her at the start of a complaint, setting 
out the concerns shed raised and she would sign and return it if she agreed. 
Nationwide accepted it hadnt followed the reasonable adjustment requests on some of her 
complaints. And it paid her £175 in compensation for this. But it thought its call handlers had 
treated her fairly on the telephone calls shed had.
In August 2019 Ms H raised a further complaint about the way Nationwide was treating her. 
In particular she said she hadnt had a promised call back from one of the call handlers, 
shed been placed on hold for an unreasonable length of time and she didnt think the 
acknowledgement letters shed received met her accessibility needs. Finally she said shed asked for specific information in the telephone calls but the call handlers wouldnt give it to 
her. Nationwide responded to her and accepted some of the complaint points. And it paid 
her £20 in compensation.
Ms H remained unhappy with the way Nationwide was treating her so she referred her 
complaint to this service. In particular, she raised the following complaint points: 
She remained unhappy with the way Nationwide had handled her chargeback claim. She 
said it didnt explain the process when she first made the claim. She also said she wasnt 
given an opportunity to respond to the outcome. She said she was particularly unhappy 
with the telephone calls she had when she first complained about the outcome and that 
Nationwide took the money from her account that day. She said it meant she didnt have 
money for food or her rent which she said resulted in her attempting to take her life. She 
queried why Nationwide didnt offer her the overdraft at that time as it did two weeks 
later. She said Nationwide never fully investigated her concerns about this. She also 
complained Nationwide took back the £145 twice.
She said Nationwide continually failed to adhere to her reasonable adjustments request, 
which she said meant she didnt know what complaint the call handlers were calling her 
about, which added to her distress.
She was unhappy with the way Nationwide handled her subject access requests. She 
said they werent responded to in time and also didnt include everything she asked for.
She was unhappy with the way Nationwide handled her complaints. She said there were 
occasions when it didnt do as it promised  e.g. not returning calls when promised and 
not responding in the timescale it had promised.
In October 2019 Nationwide wrote to Ms H to say, due to the number of complaints shed 
raised, it considered its relationship with her had irreparably broken down and it said it was 
going to close her account in two months. Ms H complained as she said she didnt want it to 
close her account and thought it wasnt treating her fairly as a vulnerable consumer. She 
also highlighted that the majority of her complaints had been upheld.
Nationwide agreed to put the closure of the account on hold while this service reviewed 
Ms Hs complaint.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Ms H has raised a large number of reasons why shes unhappy with Nationwides actions. 
Ive considered each and every point shes raised, but I dont intend to comment on 
everything. I dont mean any discourtesy by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. Instead Ive focussed on what I think are the key points shes raised.
It seems to me that there are three key areas of complaint for me to consider which are as 
follows:
1. Nationwides handling of Ms Hs chargeback claim;
2. Whether Nationwide followed Ms Hs reasonable adjustment requests; and
3. Nationwides decision to close Ms Hs bank account.
I shall address each point separately.
Handling of Ms Hs chargeback claim
Chargeback is the process by which a bank, building society or credit card provider look to 
resolve a dispute between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the card provider will temporarily refund the payment back to the card account and 
will raise a dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a 
prescribed period of time with any further information it wishes to provide, and if it seeks to 
defend the claim, it should set out why it thinks the chargeback shouldnt be successful. If 
the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund is re-debited from the account. 
In August 2017 Ms H called Nationwide to raise a chargeback regarding a dispute between 
her and a third party relating to a contract to replace a window. Ive listened to the telephone 
calls Ms H had when she first reported the claim and Ms H set out in detail what had 
happened and what her claim was about. But in one of the calls, she took offence to the call 
handler saying dont snap at me. I dont think the call handler meant anything untoward by 
this, but I dont think it was a fair comment to make as I dont think Ms H had acted unfairly 
on the call. It also seems Ms H had difficulties when calling back and Nationwide seems to 
accept that some calls were swiftly terminated. When Ms H did manage to get through to 
someone again, she raised a complaint. I understand the call handler also agreed to process 
the chargeback claim. But its clear that Ms H suffered some distress and inconvenience as 
a result of the initial handling of the complaint.
Nationwide then wrote to Ms H to ask her to put her dispute in writing. I dont think it was 
unreasonable it did so as this is a standard process and Ive not seen anything for me to say 
it should have reasonably known at that time that Ms H wasnt able to put anything in writing 
due to her disability. Ms H called Nationwide back and explained she couldnt put this in 
writing and wanted to raise a complaint. 
I can see Nationwide processed the chargeback claim following this telephone call, but it 
was defended by the merchant. Nationwide said it couldnt pursue the claim further because 
the merchant had explained Ms H had the window, so it couldnt refund the amount Ms H 
had paid for the window and it said the merchant had refunded the cost of installation. I note 
Ms H is unhappy she wasnt allowed to cancel the contract. But it was a non-cancellable 
contract. 
Ms H has referred to the Consumer Contract Regulations which she said gave her a right to 
cancel the contract, but this only relates to a distant sale and this wasnt a distant sale. So I 
dont think they apply. Ive also considered her comment that the merchant was late in 
installing the window due to his supplier sending the wrong window.
But this doesnt give a right to cancellation. So I cant say Nationwides response to Ms Hs 
chargeback claim was unfair.
However, Nationwide didnt contact Ms H for around three months after receiving a response 
from the merchant. Nationwide should have advised her of the outcome of the claim as soon 
as it became apparent  especially taking into account Ms Hs vulnerability. I also havent 
seen anything to show that Nationwide explained to Ms H at the start that the initial credit 
back to the bank account was a temporary refund. Given the length of time that had passed 
and considering Ms H didnt understand this was a temporary refund, I think its natural Ms H 
would have assumed the matter was resolved. And this confusion would have caused her 
further unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
I think Nationwide could have avoided the majority of this distress by initially explaining the 
chargeback process to her. I recognise the telephone calls were challenging and there may 
not have been much of an opportunity to do so. But I think it had a responsibility to explain 
this either on the telephone or in writing. Ms H had explained to Nationwide she was 
disabled and vulnerable, so I think Nationwide should have prioritised this claim. And I dont 
think its unreasonable to say it should have contacted her as soon as it was aware the claim 
was unsuccessful.Following receipt of Nationwides letter, Ms H called Nationwide asking it to not take the 
money from her account. I think the call handler should have handled this call better and 
Nationwide ultimately put Ms H in a very vulnerable position. I recognise Ms H said she was 
going to close her bank account before it could take the money back. But, as I said above, 
Nationwide was aware of the heavily vulnerable situation Ms H was in and I think this should 
have been especially apparent from this telephone call. Ms H explained that she wouldnt be 
able to pay for food or her rent if it took the money from her bank account. And she said 
shed attempt suicide if it did so.
I appreciate Nationwide was concerned it wouldnt be able to recover the money it credited 
back. But I dont think it was fair for Nationwide to knowingly and actively choose to put Ms H 
in the position it did. And I dont think it should have actively chosen to take the money from 
her account immediately. 
Ms H has said Nationwide should have given her an overdraft at that time  like it did a few 
weeks later. I should say I agree with Nationwide that under the rules of the basic account, 
Ms H wasnt generally entitled to an overdraft. But Nationwide had a responsibility to treat 
Ms H in a sensitive and flexible way. It should have understood the specific circumstances 
and Ms Hs vulnerability and it should have explored avenues to support her  such as 
considering a temporary overdraft or arranging a separate repayment plan in respect to the 
debt.
Im not saying Nationwide had to agree to these measures. But I dont think withdrawing the 
money so hastily, given what Ms H had said and taking into account her vulnerability, was 
treating her fairly. Had it said it would consider whether there was anything it could have 
done to support Ms H, it could have reduced the impact this had on Ms H as she would have 
felt listened to and, at the very least, could have put steps in place to prepare for the money 
coming out of her bank account. Ultimately, I understand Ms H attempted to commit suicide 
that night. I recognise that Nationwides actions werent the only reason for this. But, I think 
its actions contributed to the way she was feeling and I think this could have been avoided 
had Nationwide treated her in a fairer way. 
Ive also considered the impact Nationwide incorrectly re-debiting the account again has had 
on Ms H. I recognise Nationwide noticed the mistake it had made and took swift actions to 
put things right as it put the money back into her bank account the following morning. Im not 
persuaded Ms H lost out financially as a result of what happened. But she was aware 
Nationwide had taken the money again and did feel the need to have to contact Nationwide 
again to complain about this. Given what had happened previously, this naturally would have 
added to the distress she was already experiencing.
Did Nationwide follow Ms Hs reasonable adjustments request?
Ms H suffers from a physical disability which means shes unable to write for any length of 
time. And shes told us and Nationwide that, owing to her mental health, she struggles to 
remember everything that has happened.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out in its Principles for business that it says a 
firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. It also said 
the firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Ultimately Ms H was entitled to make a reasonable adjustment request to assist her with 
making a complaint. And the Equality Act further required Nationwide to make reasonable 
adjustments to accommodate her to ensure she could fairly access all her banking requirements.
Nationwide has said Ms H continually changed her requests. But I dont agree. Shes 
consistently and frequently asked that Nationwide write to her at the start of any new 
complaint summarising what the complaint points shes raised are. Shes said she will sign 
to confirm whether she agreed or not. I dont think this was an unreasonable request for her 
to make.
Nationwide said this isnt practical because Ms H didnt sign and return the forms and so this 
put it at risk of not resolving the complaint within the regulatory timescales. But I dont think 
this is a fair reason to not adhere to her request. It could and should have taken steps to 
accommodate her request and still adhere to the required timescales for resolving a 
complaint.
In particular Ive noted a telephone call Ms H had with the specialist support team on 
15 March 2019 where she frequently referred to her reasonable adjustment request and the 
call handler said Nationwide wouldnt send her a letter as it wasnt part of its process. I dont 
think this was fair and was out of line with the its responsibilities.
I note Ms H found this telephone call particularly upsetting and has referred to it numerous 
times in her complaints. I dont think the call handler handled the call unfairly in the way he 
spoke to Ms H. I should also say that I think the call handlers have largely spoken to Ms H in 
a fair and professional way on the telephone calls. But I also think some of Ms Hs distress 
and inconvenience could have been reduced had Nationwide adhered to Ms Hs reasonable 
adjustment request. Ms H has had to make this request to Nationwide numerous times and I 
can understand why she felt she wasnt being listened to.
Nationwides decision to close Ms Hs bank account
The concept of a basic bank account was implemented into law by The Payment Accounts 
Regulations 2015 (the regulations). These set out the key features that a basic bank 
account must have, but also set out the limited circumstances under which Nationwide is 
entitled to close Ms Hs bank account. And they say it can only do so in the following 
circumstances:
(a) the consumer has knowingly used, or attempted to use, the payment account for illegal 
purposes;
(b) there has been no transaction on the account for more than 24 consecutive months;
(c) the consumer provided incorrect information when applying for the account and, had the 
correct information been provided, the application would have been refused;
(d) the consumer is no longer legally resident in the European Union;
(e) the consumer has access to another payment account in the United Kingdom which:
(i) allows the consumer to make use of the services listed in regulation 19(1); and
(ii) was opened after the payment account with basic features;
(f) the credit institution considers that the consumers conduct in relation to the credit 
institutions staff amounts to the commission of an offence under:
(i) section 4, 4A or 5 of the Public Order Act 1986;
(ii) the Protection from Harassment Act 1997;
(iii) section 38 of the Criminal Justice and Licensing (Scotland) Act 2010 (threatening or 
abusive behaviour);
(iv) Article 9 of the Public Order (Northern Ireland) Order 1987 (use of words or behaviour or 
display of written material);(v) the Protection from Harassment (Northern Ireland) Order 1997.  
Initially Nationwide said it was closing Ms Hs account because it felt its relationship with her 
had irreparably broken down. But I dont think the regulations entitled Nationwide to close 
the account in these circumstances. Its since said that Ms Hs actions on telephone calls 
have caused significant distress to its staff and it says it has a responsibility to its staff to 
safeguard their wellbeing.
I dont dispute that some of the calls Nationwide have had with Ms H have been challenging 
and difficult for its staff. I also understand Nationwides responsibility to safeguard its staff. 
But the regulations are clear in the limited circumstances it can close Ms Hs bank account. It 
also has to be remembered that a significant number of Ms Hs complaints have been 
upheld.
Nationwide has set out that the terms of her bank account entitles it to close her bank 
account. But, as I said, the regulations are clear as to the limited circumstances where a 
bank can close a basic bank account, irrespective of what the terms of the account say. And, 
under the regulations, Nationwide cant close Ms Hs account because the telephone calls 
are challenging in their nature. It would need to show her conduct would be considered an 
offence under one of the regulations set out in (f). I appreciate Ms H can get distressed on 
the telephone and has threatened to commit suicide on a number of occasions. I also 
recognise this could be very distressing for the call handlers to hear. Ive taken into account 
the specific comments Nationwide has said about the impact this has had on its staff. And I 
dont disagree that Ms Hs conduct on some of the telephone calls is unreasonable. But I 
dont think Nationwide has given me enough to show that Ms H has committed an offence. 
So, it follows, that I dont think it has fair grounds to close Ms Hs account at this time. 
Nationwide says its unfair that this Service is requiring it to continue to provide a banking 
service to Ms H, subjecting its staff to further pain and suffering. But I note, as I said above, 
a number of the difficult calls have come in respect to upheld service complaints. And its 
ultimately for Nationwide to put measures in place to both safeguard its staff but also to 
make adjustments to enable Ms H to access all the services she needs and has in respect to 
her bank account.
Nationwide has said that not allowing it to close her account is setting a precedent that there 
is absolutely nothing Ms H could ever do that would give Nationwide grounds to close the 
account  even if her conduct got even more extreme. But I dont agree. As I said, the 
regulations are clear in respect to when Nationwide may or may not be able to close her 
account. If Ms Hs actions became as such to be considered an offence under the above 
acts, it would have grounds to close her bank account. So I dont need to comment on this 
further.
Putting things right
As I said, I think Nationwide has caused a lot of avoidable distress and inconvenience to 
Ms H. In particular in respect to the following (but not limited to):
Unreasonably delaying the chargeback claim and not clearly explaining the initial 
crediting of the £145 in dispute was temporary;
Not acting in a sensitive and flexible way when Ms H set out the implications of 
redebiting her account;
Taking the £145 a second time;
Not adhering to Ms Hs fair reasonable adjustments request; and
Unfairly telling Ms H it was going to close her bank account.I appreciate that, on the face of things, Nationwide doesnt feel its actions arent overly 
significant and thinks the level of compensation is awarded already is fair. But this needs to 
be considered against Ms Hs vulnerability and the subsequent implications of what 
ultimately happened. This matter has had a significant impact on her  not least that I 
understand she attempted to take her own life. And its an established legal doctrine that the 
compensation awarded should reflect the level of damage  i.e. distress and inconvenience 
 irrespective of whether Nationwide was aware of Ms Hs increased vulnerability, as 
opposed to what actually happened.
Nationwide has said that, even if it accepted it had treated Ms H unfairly, it thinks the £775 
its paid in compensation is fair for whats happened. But Im conscious that a large part of 
that compensation is in relation to other complaints Ms H has raised. Ive not commented on 
those complaint points because I dont think they form the crux of the complaint referred to 
us and I think Nationwide had fairly compensated her for those issues.
Ultimately, I think Ms H has suffered a significant amount of avoidable distress and 
inconvenience as a result of Nationwides actions. The investigator recommended that 
Nationwide pay Ms H an additional £1,000 in compensation. I think this is in line with what I 
would have awarded so I think its fair.
Nationwide didnt accept my provisional decision and raised the following points:
It still didnt think it was in Ms Hs interest to continue a banking relationship with 
Nationwide when this is cited as a major reason for her repeated attempts on her own 
life. And it still thinks it would be best for the relationship to end and for her to start afresh 
with a new banking provider. But it said it wouldnt close her bank account at this time.
It maintains it had acted in a constructive manner and made reasonable adjustments to 
try and support Ms H, in particular with her complaints. It said it had repeatedly written to 
her, in line with her requests, detailing the complaint points for Ms H to sign and return. 
But it said Ms H doesnt return these letters, despite this being what she asked to be able 
to do as a reasonable adjustment. It said this leaves it with two options:
(i) Contact Ms H to verify if she has received the letter and is happy the complaint 
points reflect her complaint. But it says that Ms H then complains it has contacted 
her or takes issue with the way the call handler speaks to her; or
(ii) Do nothing at which point Ms H raises a further complaint that no one had 
contacted her.
It said a reasonable adjustment can only be considered reasonable if the adjustment in 
itself doesnt cause further distress. It agreed that sending a letter out setting out the 
complaint points in itself is a reasonable adjustment, which it said is why it agreed to it in 
the first place. But it said Ms H didnt follow the reasonable adjustment herself, which 
ultimately caused further distress.
It set out that throughout the process Ms H often became increasingly agitated and 
distressed. It said it couldnt ignore these threats to her life from a safeguarding context. 
It said the more it tried to resolve this for Ms H the worse the situation got. So it said the 
only solution to resolve this was to return to its normal complaints process, as this 
caused much less distress than the adjustments agreed with Ms H did. Given this, it said 
it didnt agree it didnt make fair attempts to make reasonable adjustments to support 
Ms H, but, given the additional distress these adjustments caused her, it didnt think it 
was appropriate or reasonable to maintain them.
It didnt agree the specialist support team (SST) acted unfairly in declining to send a 
letter. It said the reasonable adjustments request was agreed through the complaints team, not through anything Ms H wanted to discuss with the SST. It said the SST isnt a 
complaint handling team and its not in its remit to investigate and respond to complaints. 
It said it had already issued a final response to Ms Hs complaint so it didnt need to 
issue another response.
It didnt agree with my comment that most of the compensation awarded shouldnt be 
taken into consideration because it related to different complaint points. It didnt agree 
that this was a fair way to approach this, as it said all the compensation offered was for 
issues caused by and subsequent to the initial complaint which formed the root cause of 
what this service is considering. In particular it said significant portions of the £775 it had 
paid were directly related to its complaint handling and the occasions where it didnt 
follow the reasonable adjustments request. 
Finally, it thought Ms H could have done more to mitigate the impact any mistakes 
Nationwide made. And it felt the compensation should reflect that.
Ultimately, Nationwide accepted it needed to compensate Ms H. But it felt £1,775 in 
compensation was not justified in this case. 
Ms H accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide hasnt raised any further comments in respect to what I said about its handling of 
Ms Hs chargeback claim. I also dont think its raised anything new regarding what I said 
about its decision to close her bank account. So Im not going to comment on this any further 
in this decision.
Nationwides response to my provisional decision is almost solely in respect to its handling of 
Ms Hs reasonable adjustment request. I have considered and I do fully appreciate its 
comments in this respect. But I think its important to set out, though, that in this decision Im 
only considering Nationwides actions up to when Ms H first referred the complaint to this 
service in August 2019. 
Nationwide has said it did fully comply with Ms Hs reasonable adjustments request but Ms H 
didnt do what she said shed do in return, which ultimately ended up causing her further 
distress. But this was after Ms H referred this complaint to this service so I cant comment on 
that in this decision. However, I do accept it needs to be taken into consideration when 
considering what impact it actually had on Ms H had Nationwide initially complied with the 
reasonable adjustments request.
Nationwide has also said the SST  the team Nationwide has in place to support vulnerable 
consumers  arent complaint handlers so wouldnt be required to adhere to the request 
Ms H made. However, the call I referred to in my provisional decision was specifically 
regarding a complaint she raised where the call handler was calling to take Ms Hs complaint 
points. And its in this call where the call handler said to Ms H that Nationwide wouldnt agree 
to her reasonable adjustments request as it wasnt its process. And this did cause Ms H 
some distress and inconvenience.
But, irrespective of this, my compensation award was primarily for the way Nationwide 
handled the chargeback claim  notably the delay in notifying Ms H it had been defended 
and also the way it handled the telephone call on 5 February 2018  and for unfairly telling 
Ms H it was going to close her account. I understand what Nationwide has said that the compensation it previously offered was in 
relation to the way it had handled her complaints. But, as I said the primary reason for 
awarding £1,000 wasnt down to the complaint handling. And, ultimately, it hadnt 
compensated her for the impact caused by the telephone call on 5 February 2018  as I set 
out in my provisional decision  and for unfairly saying it would close her account.
I appreciate Nationwide thinks £1,000 is a significantly high level of compensation to award. 
But Ms H is a vulnerable individual. Its a standard legal doctrine that compensation should 
reflect the impact and level of loss occurred as opposed to the event itself. Ultimately, Ms H 
has suffered a significant amount of distress and inconvenience  as I set out previously  
because of whats happened and Nationwide hasnt compensated her for that. I still think an 
additional £1,000 in compensation is fair compensation for whats happened and I see no 
reason to deviate from that.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and 
require Nationwide Building Society to pay Ms H an additional £1,000 in compensation. For 
the avoidance of doubt, this is in addition to what it has already offered Ms H. And it should 
pay the compensation its already offered to Ms H as well if it hasnt already done so. It also 
shouldnt close Ms Hs bank account  although it is entitled to keep this under review.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman