DRN-3993222
The complaint
Miss R, Mr B, Mrs J and Mrs H (the trustees) of the charity complain about Quilter Life & 
Pensions Limited, previously known as Old Mutual Wealth, referred to as Quilter or the 
business.  
In short, they say that there was a delay in closing a Collective Investment Bond (CIB) and 
opening a Collective Investment Account (CIA) in line with their instructions. Theyre also 
unhappy that Quilter has taken fees, reducing the value of the funds, despite failing to follow 
instructions.   
What happened
In 2010, the charity opened a CIB. In or around April 2021, following advice from a third-
party Independent Financial Adviser (the IFA) the charity opened a CIA  with a phased 
investment strategy. 
I note Quilter says an application was made on 1 May 2021 to phase a new investment, 
namely a new investment of £120,000 (over 12 months) into a model portfolio, starting 1 
June 2021. I understand that the portfolio can contain assets chosen by the adviser. In this 
case the model portfolio chosen by the old IFA for investment was named a Sustainable 
plan Dec 2020.   
Based on what Quilter says, £120,000 was deposited in the CIC on 12 May 2021. However, 
between 1 May 2021 and 1 June 2021, the above model portfolio was closed by the old IFA. 
Miss R disagrees with this for various reasons, but Quilter says that because the model 
portfolio was closed before 1 June 2021  when the first months phasing was due to 
commence  there was no asset allocation to invest the money into it. Thats why it 
remained in cash. 
The trustees signed a CIB closure form and transfer servicing rights (TOS), after their IFA 
retired and they were changed to a new IFA, but theyre unhappy with delays in closing the 
CIB and investing in the CIA as planned. 
I note that the CIB was closed, and the money transferred to the CIA on 3 December 2021. I 
also note that a new portfolio was set up by the new IFA and the phased investment started 
in December 2021.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
In the circumstances, he cant say that Quilter is responsible for causing the delays.
In short, the evidence suggests that Quilter didnt receive the closure form and wasnt 
provided with the signed transfer servicing rights document until 26 October 2021. 
The reason for his conclusion is as follows:
oOn 24 May 2021, the trustees sent the signed CIB closure form to the IFA. 
oOn 25 June 2021, they sent the signed TOS to the new IFA  via the 
Docusign process. 
oThe available information suggests that Quilter didnt receive the CIB closure 
form until/by 22 October 2021. Because of this it didnt have authority to close 
the CIB. 
oAlthough Quilter was receiving information from the new IFA after 7 July 
2021, the evidence shows that the TOS wasnt received by Quilter until 26 
October 2021. This meant that full access to the account couldnt be given 
before this time. 
oQuilter applied the fees and charges  to the CIB and CIA  in line with its 
terms and conditions. It provided the trustees with information about fees in 
advance.  So, it was entitled to apply charges. 
oOnce the appropriate consent was in place, Quilter carried out the instructions 
provided by the trustees through their new IFA in a timely manner, without 
significant delay. 
oQuilter has no responsibility to offer investment advice, its simply a platform 
for investors. 
oIt has no control over investment performance and isnt responsible for any 
missed opportunities. 
The trustees disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, Miss R made the following key submissions:
The complaint is two-fold, namely closure of the CIB and not starting the phased 
investment in the CIA (which Quilter said would start on 1 June 2021)  the latter part 
is the more serious. 
How can there be evidence that shows that the closure form wasnt received? What 
evidence does the investigator have to support this conclusion?
The view doesnt mention the non-starting of the phased investment into the CIA by 
Quilter (or the extra money given to it in April 2021) despite its written undertaking to 
do so. Why hasnt this been considered by the investigator. 
24 June 2021 was when the trustees were sent the Docusign TOS document. The 
trustees signed an electronic transfer of servicing rights for this by 6 July 2021, as 
stated in the original information sent to the investigator. 
Theres evidence from the new IFA to say that the document in question was signed 
electronically, so why is Quilter saying it didnt receive the form until 26 October 
2021?  The documents will be available on the Docusign system. 
The date of 26 October 2021 doesnt make sense as their new IFA was given access 
to the accounts on 30 September 2021. 
oIn October 2021 the trustees signed a hard copy form regarding the CIA, 
which was emailed from their new IFA on 26 October 2021. 
oOn 26 October 2021, Miss R also signed a Docusign form for the Adviser Fee 
Authorisation (AFA), regarding the new fees for this portfolio. 
oQuilter might be referring to these documents as the signed TOS document, 
but theyre not the same thing.  
She accepts that the trustees were advised of the fees for the opening of the portfolio 
in May 2021, but from 1 June 2021 until December 2021 when the phased 
investment of the CIA finally started Quilter didnt do anything. It didnt provide the 
service they contracted with it to provide in May 2021. It sent a letter saying it would 
start the phased investment but didnt, and they didnt know until they received the 
first statement for the CIA several months later that it hadnt begun.  
She understands that the fees for the CIB was chargeable as this was still in 
operation. 
Quilter didnt start the investment when it said it would, so it is responsible for missed 
investment opportunity. It didnt do what it said it would. 
It might be that the closure of the CIB wasnt sent by their old IFA, but she sent the original closure form on 21 October 2021.   
Any additional documents she receives she will forward. 
The investigator having considered the additional arguments wasnt persuaded to change 
his mind. Quilters letter confirming receipt of new funds  simply did just that  and no more. 
It didnt receive the necessary follow up. 
Miss R made a number of submissions regarding further information she had obtained from 
her new IFA including the chronology of events it says it followed. But the investigator having 
considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his mind. In summary, he said:
In respect of the TOS  signed by the trustees between 24 June 2021 and 6 June 
2021 and emailed to Quilter on 7 July 2021  Quilter queried further information that 
it required, which it was entitled to do. The TOS cleared on 17 September 2021.
In respect of the CIB closure form  signed by the trustees between 22 and 23 May 
2021  the new IFA confirmed in an email to Quilter on 22 October 2021 that the 
form wasnt submitted. It was then submitted on the same date and actioned that 
month. 
In respect of the phased investment strategy, the old IFA submitted the form on 1 
May 2021  for the plan to start on 1 June 2021  however the model portfolio 
chosen by the IFA had been closed by it before the start date, and thats why the 
funds remained in cash. 
Quilter received revised instructions via email on 29 October 2021 so that in due 
course the new IFA could have full access to the account. 
Miss R on behalf of the charity disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, she said:
They were never asked for further information.
Quilter denied that the names on the TOS were the names it had on record, which is 
untrue. 
Why did it take Quilter over two months to clear the TOS? 
The old IFA didnt inform the trustees that he was retiring until 4 June 2021, and that 
the company was merging with the new company.  
She accepts that the CIB closure form was originally lost by the old IFA (or Quilter). 
However, it was resubmitted in October 2021 but wasnt actioned until December 
2021  not October as Quilter says. 
 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss R says, Im unable to safely 
say that Quilter is responsible for the delays, or that it behaved unreasonably, such that the 
complaint should be upheld.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise the trustees strength of feeling about this matter. Miss R has provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Miss R and Quilter, and reach what I think is 
an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont uphold this complaint, in brief for the following 
reasons:
On balance, I cant safely say that Quilter is responsible for the delays experienced 
by the charity. 
Based on a brief chronology of events it seems that Quilter didnt initially receive the 
necessary documentation and/or information/clarification that it needed, therefore 
couldnt progress matters as hoped for by the trustees.
Despite giving an undertaking as to when the CIA might start, on balance it seems it 
couldnt do so as planned (mainly) for the above reasons but also others that Ill 
explore below. However, this doesnt mean that it did something wrong or 
deliberately tried to mislead the trustees. 
I also note that the CIB wasnt closed as instructed, because the relevant form wasnt 
supplied to Quilter as envisaged by the trustees and may have been lost. 
Im aware that in 2018 Old Mutual Wealths parent company changed its name to 
Quilter Plc and that thereafter theres been ongoing rebranding. I note in or around 
May/June 2021 the Old Mutual platform name was changed to Quilter, which was 
around the time the charity was seeking to close its CIB and open the CIA with the 
business. 
Its around this time that the charitys old IFA  responsible for initiating this process  
also retired, and a new one was appointed  whilst the IFA businesses were merging 
 to continue with what had been started. 
In the circumstances and on balance, these changes (on both sides) cant be wholly 
dismissed and are likely to have had an impact on how matters progressed arguably 
by adding an additional level of complexity  for example, by registering the new IFA, 
and ensuring that he had the necessary access and permissions. This might explain 
why it took as long as it did to clear the TOS. 
I note Miss R submitted information from the charitys old IFA in order to assist with 
this complaint. But whilst the old IFA assisted as much as he could, I note he no 
longer had access to client files or Quilter, which he concedes makes determining 
what happened a difficult task.  
Despite what Miss R says, I think the start date for the phased investment wouldve 
been given by Quilter in good faith and done so on the understanding that all the 
other issues will have been sorted by then. At this point its unlikely Quilter wouldve 
known that the charitys IFA was changing and the business merging.  
I note Quilter also says that the model portfolio chosen by the IFA had been closed 
by him before the start date  which Miss R disagrees with  and thats why the funds 
remained in cash. I note the old IFA says he failed to see how or why he wouldve 
closed a portfolio when it was being used but doesnt explicitly say that he didnt. In 
any case, he says that at the time he was heavily involved in the due diligence 
process for the new IFA and says that he wouldnt have had time to look at portfolios. 
On balance, its therefore possible that certain matters couldve been left unresolved by him.   
Based on what the old IFA says, I note the completion of transfer (to the new IFA) 
completed on 4 June 2021  by which time the old IFA was no longer authorised, so 
he couldnt help even if he wanted to.  
Consequently, for example, the new IFA, following the retirement of the charitys 
previous IFA, couldnt have full access to the account. Although based on what Miss 
R says, some access may have been granted to the new IFA earlier  I note the 
investigator says that the TOS cleared on 17 September 2021 and the new IFA 
probably first accessed the account on 30 September 2021  but this doesnt 
undermine the position that the business couldnt do what it needed to without the 
relevant authority (and or further enquiries) which I believe was, on balance, more 
likely than not the case. I note the business says that the new IFA wouldnt have 
been able to submit instructions online, nor would it accept instructions from them, 
until the TOS was transferred to them. But in the circumstances, and on balance, the 
timings would suggest that matters were dealt with as reasonably as could be 
expected by Quilter, given the challenges it faced.  
Im aware of the bulk novation of the charitys old IFAs clients on or around 30 
September 2021, but that doesnt of itself mean that all the issues were resolved 
regarding the charity, its instructions and its new IFA. 
Its arguable that Quilter probably didnt need certain documents  that it thought it 
mightve needed  such as a deed of assignment. The position regarding this isnt 
clear. 
But despite what Miss R says, I dont think Quilter was wrong to query some of the 
information and/or seek clarification where things didnt match its records. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for it to have done so. I note there were some issues in 
July/August 2021 that had to be ironed out.  
oFor example, based on what the Miss R says  between 24 June 2021 and 6 
July 2021, the signatures of the trustees were obtained regarding the TOS 
and sent on 7 July 2021  but chased up (roughly) a month later, which is 
when Quilter mentioned the deed of assignment. 
oFurthermore, on 13 August 2021, the new IFA says he spoke to Quilter and 
was informed that the signatories didnt match its record, namely Mr B, Mr J 
and Miss D. Its not entirely clear what happened next, but theres a dispute 
between what Miss R says and what the new IFA says happened. I note Miss 
R denies that the new IFA queried this with her or that he was told anything 
by her in relation to this matter  however, he maintains he did. 
oIm mindful that subsequently Miss R said that she met with the new IFA on 
19 October 2021, and he informed her that the portfolio  which the CIA 
shouldve been invested in  had been closed when the old IFA retired  its 
possible theres a link here. But this seemed strange to Miss R as the CIB 
was still running. Although its not entirely clear what happened, on balance I 
cant say that Quilter is to blame. 
oIn any case, despite what Miss R says, I note Quilter maintained that it still 
didnt have the signatories for the TOS. In other words, it wasnt signed by the 
correct people.  
Whilst I appreciate what Miss R says about the fees applied, I cant say that Quilter 
did anything wrong by taking fees when it did. In other words, on the face of the 
evidence and on balance, Im persuaded that it was entitled to take fees and did so in 
line with its terms and conditions which it made clear to the trustees in or around May 
2021 as well as any understanding it was likely to have with the adviser. 
I dont think the fees were dependent on any particular action as such. Quilter  a 
non-advised platform  was entitled to charge for services provided, regardless of the 
specific investment strategy. Im mindful in its FRL it made clear that the fees were 
for a number of things, such as setting up and administering investments, custody and safekeeping of investments, sending valuations and statements, freephone 
access to its customer care centre and online support and processing instructions 
and transaction and making changes to the portfolio  payment wasnt just 
dependent on the phased investment strategy, which Im aware couldnt begin until 
much later. 
Overall, and on balance, I agree that once Quilter received the appropriate authority, 
it carried out the trustees instructions (provided through their new IFA) in a 
reasonably timely manner. 
In the circumstances and on balance, I cant say that Quilter is responsible for any 
investment loss, because it isnt responsible for the delays. In any case, the 
investment return is not something that Quilter could predict or control and therefore 
not something that its responsible for.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, for the reasons set out above, I cant say that 
the business behaved unreasonably such that this complaint should be upheld.  
I appreciate that the trustees will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what they want to 
hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, I cant safely say that Quilter behaved 
unreasonably such that this complaint should be upheld.  
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give them what they want. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T and Mr B, Mrs H 
and Ms T to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman