DRN-4338141
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received when applying for a personal loan with 
Nationwide Building Society. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why:
Nationwide didnt agree it acted unreasonably in declining Mr Ks personal loan 
application. It accepted it didnt provide clear information during a call about the 
application and that the advisor didnt do what he said he would in adding a note to 
the application. To put things right Nationwide offered Mr K £75 for the inconvenience 
caused. But I agree with the investigator, I dont think thats enough to recognise the 
frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr K for the unclear information and poor 
service. I think £150 compensation is in line with what is fair in the circumstances. 
Whilst I accept that Mr K could have been provided with clearer information, I cant 
say its responsible for any financial commitments Mr K may have made. Having 
listen to the call Mr K had with the adviser he wasnt told that the loan had been 
approved. And while Mr K was told the general process of what may have impacted 
his previous applications not being accepted, he wasnt told that this current 
application had been, or was likely to be, approved. Nationwide have told us that the 
application was declined due to Mr Ks account usage in line with its general lending 
criteria, which I dont find unreasonable.  
Having considered this I dont think a reasonable person could conclude that the 
acceptance of the application was guaranteed. So, I cant agree that Nationwide 
should be responsible for assurances he made to other parties when he took steps 
and made plans to start spending the loan before it had been accepted. 
I note Mr K feels there were other calls he made to Nationwide in which he told it 
about the money he was due to spend however this was after the loan had been 
declined. I havent seen any evidence in the calls or call notes provided by 
Nationwide to persuade me that hed mentioned this to Nationwide before the loan 
was accepted or during the calls with the adviser on 9 May and 17 May 2023. 
Putting things right
For the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K for the unclear information and poor 
service Nationwide should increase the compensation by a further £75 to a total of £150.   
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold Mr Ks complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr K a further £75 in compensation in addition to the 
£75 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman