DRN-3893625
The complaint
Mr B complains that Funding Circle Ltd provided misleading information when he invested in 
a peer to peer (P2P) opportunity it promoted on its platform.  He says the security for the 
loan was misrepresented and as a result he has suffered a financial loss. 
What happened
Funding Circle provides a loan-based crowdfunding facility through a P2P platform in
which investors can lend to borrowers in return for interest with capital returned at the end of 
the term.
Mr B has been a lending member on Funding Circles platform since 2011, and has invested
in multiple different loans over a number of years. Mr B continued lending on the platform 
until April 2017  after this he made no further investments.
In the particular loan subject to this complaint, Mr B invested a total of £1,000 across four 
tranches of the loan in 2016. He said he has been raising concerns about the loan since 
2018. He made a formal complaint in November 2021 in an attempt to recover his losses.
Funding Circle responded to the complaint but did not uphold it. In summary it said:
The Investor Report (IR) is clear that the loan was only to fund the development 
building. 
It accepts the report could be clearer in describing the property versus the 
development site however, it disputes that this would have affected an investors 
decision to invest.
It strongly disputes that the IR was misleading. 
Mr B didnt agree with the response, so referred his complaint to this service for independent 
review. In his submission to this service he reiterated his concerns about misrepresentation 
of the security, both in terms of the value of it and the personal guarantee provided. He also 
raised concerns about how Funding Circle monitored the loan and carried out its role as 
managing agent.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She upheld it as she identified failings by 
Funding Circle that she felt would have led to Mr B making a different decision to invest. In 
summary she said:
Funding Circle provided misleading information within the loan promotion about the 
value of the security. The promotion indicated that the security was for the whole site, 
but Funding Circle has since clarified this it is only for the development property (and 
not the other buildings on the site). 
The investigator was persuaded by Mr Bs testimony that he relied on the information 
in the promotion relating to the security before deciding to invest. She was persuaded 
by Mr Bs explanation of why he relied on the £1.6 million sale price, rather than the 
£2 million valuation of the development property, when he decided to invest.
She was also satisfied that, if the true position had been made clear, Mr B wouldnt 
have invested as a reduction in his understanding of the value of the security would 
have made a difference to his decision to invest.
She recommended Funding Circle compensates Mr B by comparing the position if he 
hadnt invested in this opportunity with what he would have received from the 
average returns on similar property loans of the same risk profile that were available 
on the platform. 
Funding Circle didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. In summary it said:
- Mr B allegedly based his investment decision on the 2015 sale price of the whole 
site. However, the value of the development property represented approximately 
89.5% of the value of the whole site  not a third of the value as has been assumed. 
It is confident that given the value of the development property, Mr B would still have 
invested in this loan had the true position of the security been clearer. 
- Mr Bs claim that he would not have invested in this development is made only with 
the benefit of hindsight. There is always a risk the proceeds after enforcement may 
not be enough to discharge all obligations by the borrower to lenders on the platform. 
It has always been clear that security does not equal repayment and it never 
guarantees repayment as when lending through Funding Circle, an investor's capital 
is at risk. 
Mr B provided further submissions to the points raised by Funding Circle. In summary he 
said:
- Funding Circle are liable for a serious breach of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 and 
doesnt accept that he is making an argument with the benefit of hindsight. 
- He didnt continue to invest in these loans up until 13th April 2017, all of investments 
were made between May and July 2016. 
- He questions how Funding Circle was able to promote a loan for the other buildings 
on the site if his understanding of the original security is correct - without weakening 
the original security. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Through his P2P account, Funding Circle provided Mr B with the opportunity to invest in the 
loans it was promoting on its platform. Mr B selected to invest in this loan based on the 
information he saw on the platform. Ive reviewed the relevant investor terms and conditions 
that applied when Mr B invested as they form the basis of this relationship. 
In reaching my decision, Ive also considered Funding Circles wider obligations. At the time 
of promoting loan one on its platform, Funding Circle was authorised and regulated by the 
FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set 
out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading. 
So, before making the loan available on the platform for investment, Funding Circle needed 
to satisfy itself that the information it collected and used to promote the loan was fair, clear 
and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied that by providing an opportunity for its 
customers to invest in the loan it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests. 
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions 
made in the promotional material itself, Funding Circle would need to carry out reasonable 
checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given 
case, is something which is very much left to each provider to determine and would vary 
according to the particular circumstances. 
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations 
under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests rule (COBS 
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on the essential 
information on which any communication or promotion is based.
Whilst I appreciate Mr B had invested prior to the publication of the consultation paper and 
guidance, I still feel it is relevant as it provides clarity as to the interpretation and application 
of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Funding Circle at the time.
Ive considered the circumstances surrounding the promotion of this loan  paying particular 
attention to the IR as this was the information Funding Circle provided to set out the details 
of the opportunity, and from which Mr B made his investment decision.  
This is a property loan on a building with residential and commercial units  which was part 
of a site containing three adjacent buildings. Only one of the buildings was to be developed 
using the crowdfunding for the loan  Ill call this the development building and the other 
two buildings Ill call other building H, other building C or the other buildings for ease of 
reference. One of the key considerations and points Mr B has raised relates to how the 
security was described in the IR.
Ive considered whether Funding Circle provided clear, fair and not misleading information to 
Mr B about the security before he first invested in the loan. The IR describes the security as 
1st legal charge. In the summary it says: 
The borrower purchased the property in 2015 for £1.6m with the help of a bridging loan and 
has also funded the costs of gaining the planning permission.
The subject property comprises 3 buildings:-     The [development building], with primary frontage onto [X Street]
-    [other building H]
-    [other building C]
While the planning permission allows for the development of [other building H] and [other 
building C] as well, at this stage FC investors are only being asked to fund the 
redevelopment of the [development building].
And when describing the site it says:
All three buildings are situated within the [a] Conservation Area, with [other building H] and 
[other building C] being Grade II listed. The properties have a GIA of c32,000 sq ft and other 
than the commercial units (which have been let to secondary tenants) have been largely 
vacant and disused.
And when referring to the value it says:
We have received an independent valuation and monitoring surveyor report validating the
following figures:
Current site value £2,000,000
GDV £5,447,375
Development costs (incl contingency) £1,700,000
The GDV of £5.447m mentioned above breaks down as follows:
- The value of the resi units total £4,497,375 (breakdown per flat in the table below)
- The commercial units have been valued at £685k
- The freehold has been valued at £265k.
The total value is thus £5,447,375 as mentioned above.
The resi units plus the freehold have been pre-sold for £4,376,500, with the resi units having
been sold at 10-20% discounts to their OMV as is normal for pre-sales of this nature. As we
have security over the whole site we have based our ratios on the £5.447m GDV figure, but 
it is comforting to know that the resi units alone cover the proposed debt more than 1.5x.  
In its submissions to this service Funding Circle has confirmed the security over the whole 
site, means the development building only  and not the other buildings detailed in the IR. 
So the charge it held was over that building only. Funding Circle maintains the information 
in the IR was clear in stating the loan was only to fund the development building. And the 
key loan features table which detailed that the security obtained was a first legal charge 
only referenced the development property address. But it concedes the IR could be 
clearer in describing the property versus the development site.
But Im not persuaded things are as clear as Funding Circle suggest. The IR is clear that the 
funding is for the development of only one of the buildings  but all the way through it 
mentions the site contains three buildings. There is a clear reference to having security over 
the whole site too  this provides a strong suggestion that the security isnt limited to one 
building but rather all three it describes throughout the promotion. The use of the terms site 
and building is informative, so I think this would lead a reasonable person to consider site 
to mean all three buildings and building just means the one being developed. I dont think it 
reasonable to rely solely on the information in the key features table makes the security 
clear, when the other information doesnt make it clear the security is only the development property. The IR also provides a visual description of the site using a map, which highlights 
all three buildings. If two of the buildings werent considered to be part of the site or security, 
I wouldnt have expected them to be mentioned and highlighted so prominently. Im also 
aware of an extract from the Q&A section on the loan profile from Funding Circles website, 
which contains a comment from Funding Circle saying security will include a first charge 
over the entire development site. This again gives the impression the security for the loan 
isnt just the development property but rather the whole site.
While I appreciate Funding Circle says the security was always over just the development 
building, the IR doesnt make this clear. This is something I would have expected to have full 
clarity about, so investors like Mr B could make an informed decision before they became 
lenders. Having considered the information provided to Mr B before he invested, I think it 
was reasonable for him to understand the security to be the whole site when he decided to 
invest.  Having considered all of the evidence provided, Ive reached the finding that the 
information Funding Circle provided about the security wasnt. For these reasons, I think it 
failed to meet its obligation to provide clear, fair and not misleading information to Mr B. 
I need to decide whether the failure to provide clear information about the security would 
have made Mr B make a different decision on whether to lend. The value of the security is a 
very important piece of information as it allowed Mr B to understand the protection available 
should the loan not perform as expected.
Funding Circle has argued that the value of the development building was clear in the IR. 
So, despite the concessions made about the wording used in the IR, it still thinks Mr B would 
have been aware of the value of the security. It says the £2 million value detailed on the IR 
was for the development property and not the whole site. It says whether the security was 
over one building or three, investors invested in this loan on the basis that the security was 
valued at £2 million and this is what is relevant. 
Mr B says at the time of this investment he was a regular lender to property development 
loans. He says he understood once the project commences, all the money that is spent 
developing it is at risk until the project is completed - and if the project fails, there is very little 
market demand for part-completed building projects. So part-completed projects are often 
worth no more than the un-renovated original plot. For this reason, when he made decisions 
to invest in loans, he considered what he might receive back if the worst case happens and 
the project fails part way through. He seeks to understand the unrenovated site value plus 
any other security offered (in this loan a personal guarantee from the director). He says he 
reasonably understood from the IR, that the loan security was the whole site of comprising of 
three buildings bought in late 2015 for £1.6 million plus the director guarantee. On this basis 
he decided this to be reasonable security to proceed to lend.
Im satisfied that Mr B has made a plausible argument for his decision to invest based on the 
information contained within the IR. In response to the investigators findings, Funding Circle 
has provided one main argument for why it doesnt think clearer information about the 
security would have made a difference to Mr Bs decision to invest. It says Mr B would still 
have invested in the loan had he been aware that the true position of the security, because 
the development property represented 89.5% of the value of the whole site. It has calculated 
this value using the predevelopment valuation it obtained on the different buildings and 
made some assumptions to calculate this percentage. It says there is an assumption that the 
value of the security was reduced by two-thirds as it only held security over one of the three 
buildings on the site. But it has calculated the value of the development building represented 
significantly more of the value of the whole site. It says given this; Mr B would still have 
invested if the position on the security was clearer. The key point Funding Circle is making here is that the development building represented 
virtually all of the value of the whole site, so the unclear information in the IR about the 
security wouldnt have impacted Mr Bs decision to invest. But I dont think the assumptive 
figure of 89.5% is clear cut as Funding Circle has suggested. It has relied on separate 
valuations of the properties completed a year apart rather than an evaluation of the whole 
site done at once. It has also used an assumed regional increase in property prices in the 
intervening year between valuations. Funding Circle say it believes there is an assumption 
that the value of the security was reduced by two-thirds to £500,000 due to the security only 
being over one building on the site. The figures Funding Circle use here arent something 
that has been mentioned by Mr B. But regardless the unclear information in the IR means 
there was still a reduction in his understanding of the value of the security  exactly by how 
much is less clear. I understand the argument Funding Circle make but, in my view, there is 
uncertainty about the comparative valuations it presents. And the reasons Mr B has given for 
his investment decision mean I dont think it is a strong enough argument to say Mr B would 
still have invested despite the information failings Ive identified.  
Overall, the question of whether Mr B would likely have still invested is finely balanced. But 
clear information about the value of the security is something that Im satisfied would have 
been very important to his decision to invest. Having considered the arguments put forward, 
Ive reached the conclusion Mr B wouldnt have invested if he had been given clearer 
information. 
Mr B has made other arguments why he believes Funding Circle failed to provide clear 
information and also failed to manage the loan correctly contributing to the losses he 
suffered. I havent needed to reach a conclusion on these points - because - for the reasons 
explained above - Ive found a reason why the complaint should be upheld. 
To confirm, for the reasons described above, I find that Funding Circle failed to provide Mr B 
with clear, fair and not misleading information when promoting this loan. But for these 
failings, I dont think Mr B would have invested in this loan. I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr B fairly, Funding Circle must: 
-calculate how much Mr B has received back from his initial investment into the loan - 
including any interest and funds that have been recovered and returned to him (A) - 
the actual value; 
-then calculate how much Mr B wouldve received had he received an *average rate 
of return for A+ rated loans (excluding the loan subject to this complaint) across the 
platform from the date he invested in the tranches of the loan until the date in May 
2017 the loan was due for repayment (the end date) ** (B) - the fair value. 
If B is greater than A, Funding Circle should pay Mrs H the difference. It should add 
additional interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on any loss from the end date to the date 
of settlement. If A is greater than B, then Mr B hasnt suffered a financial loss and there will 
be no financial compensation to pay. 
* The average return means the net return  so incorporates positive performing loans and 
any default rates. 
** Funding Circle has confirmed Mr B stopped investing in the platform in April 2017, I think 
its reasonable to assume he wouldnt have invested further on the platform after his funds from this loan were due to be repaid in May 2017, so any loss should be crystallised from 
this point. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Funding Circle Ltd 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman