DRN-3345893
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) show how 
interest on his outstanding credit account balance has accrued on the account statements.
What happened
Mr H raised a complaint with M&S because he wasnt happy with what he considered to be a 
lack of clarity on his account statements regarding how payments were being allocated on 
the account, the outstanding balance of a prior balance transfer, and how interest was being 
calculated and applied to the account.
M&S looked at Mr Hs complaint. They confirmed to Mr H that they dont provide the level of 
detail he was seeking on a monthly statement but provided explanations of how they applied 
payments to the account and how interest was calculated. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with M&Ss response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that M&S were acting 
unfairly towards Mr H in regard to the information they provided on their monthly statements. 
So, they didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, to the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its notable that Mr H has provided several detailed submissions to this 
service. Id like to thank Mr H for providing these submissions, and I hope he doesnt 
consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ill be 
focussing on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint  in line with this 
services role as an informal dispute resolution service. 
As such, if Mr H notes that I havent addressed a particular point that hes raised, it shouldnt 
be taken from this that I havent read and considered that point. Instead, it should be taken 
that I have read and considered that point, but that I dont feel it necessary to address that 
point directly here, in order to arrive at what I feel is a fair outcome.
I can appreciate how Mr H might want M&S to provide more detailed information on their 
monthly statements and I note that Mr H has provided examples of statements from other 
credit providers which he feels do provide more in depth information for their customers on a 
monthly basis.
However, its at the discretion of M&S as to how they structure the provision of information 
on their monthly statements and theyre under no obligation to copy or match the structure of 
statement information provided by another credit provider. And, having considered M&Ss 
statement information, I dont feel that M&S provide an unfair or unreasonable amount of 
information on their statement to Mr Hs detriment. 
Im aware that Mr H feels that the lack of detailed information on the monthly statements has 
caused him to undertake transactions that he wouldnt otherwise have proceeded with, had 
he had more detailed knowledge of how M&S administered the credit account.
I can appreciate Mr Hs frustration in that regard, but I feel that it was incumbent on Mr H, if 
he was uncertain as to how his account transactions would be administered by M&S, to have 
obtained the information necessary for him to understand how the credit account was 
administered before making those transactions. 
Ultimately, I feel that the information provided by M&S on their monthly statements is fair and 
reasonable, and should Mr H require information from M&S beyond that provided, I dont feel 
that its unreasonable for Mr H to have to take additional steps to acquire that information. In 
that regard, I note that M&S have provided explanations of their processes to Mr H in their 
response to his complaint and that Mr H has been made aware of how to contact M&S by 
telephone should he need to.
Finally, I note that Mr H, in his correspondence with this service, has referred to specific 
examples of what he feels is M&S not applying interest to his account in line with current 
financial regulations. 
Again, I can appreciate Mr Hs position here, but this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law, and neither does it operate as one. Instead, our remit is centred around 
fairness of outcome in relation to the eligible complaint thats been brought to us. 
Additionally, for a complaint to be eligible, it must be one which the business being 
complained about has had the opportunity to consider and respond to. In this instance, Mr 
Hs complaint to this service was about the information that M&S provided on its monthly 
statements, and this was the complaint which M&S addressed in their response to Mr Hs 
complaint to them.
As such, if Mr H has a further complaint in regard to interest not being applied correctly, then 
this would first need to be raised with M&S, so that they may consider and respond to it, 
following which Mr H may be able decide whether he wishes to refer this new complaint to 
this service. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting, but it follows from all the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing M&S to take any further action. I 
hope that Mr H will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman