DRN-3268599
The complaint
Mrs H says an Appointed Representative (AR) of Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) 
gave her unsuitable investment advice in 2017 that mismatched her novice investor profile, 
that was too risky, that was implemented without associated risks being properly explained 
to her and that depleted her capital through the deduction of a fee for ongoing advice that 
she did not receive. She seeks compensation for financial loss and a refund of the initial 
advice and ongoing advice fees she incurred. 
Quilter disputes the complaint. It says the 2017 recommendation was suitable for her, that 
she was made aware of associated risks and that it has offered her compensation for the 
ongoing review it missed in 2019.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that it should be partly upheld. 
She did not find that the investment recommendation to Mrs H was unsuitable, but she found 
that Quilter had more to do to compensate her for not providing an annual review service in 
2019. In the main, the investigator said:
The requirement upon a firm to give suitable advice is as set out in COBS (Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook) 9.2 of the regulators Handbook. This required the AR to 
consider the balance between Mrs Hs knowledge, experience, financial situation and 
objectives.
He met Mrs H in July 2017 and presented his suitability report/recommendation in 
August. The report shows that Mrs H had surplus capital savings of around 
£135,000; had the objective to invest for capital growth over five years or more; was 
debt free and had surplus monthly income after expenditure; was advised to reserve 
£35,000 for emergencies and to invest £100,000; was advised to invest £20,000 out 
of this in a New Individual Savings Account (NISA) and the remainder £80,000 in a 
Collective Investment Account (CIA); was initially assessed as having a moderate 
risk profile but, upon discussion, agreed with the lower balanced risk profile (which 
was for clients with modest financial knowledge, a preference not to take much risk, 
but readiness to do so to an extent and in order to get better longer term returns); 
and was recommended a Multi Asset Multi Manager (MAMM) Fund and the Old 
Mutual Cirilium Balanced Portfolio (the portfolio) for the NISA and CIA.
The recommendation, including use of the MAMM fund and the portfolio, matched 
Mrs Hs overall investor profile (including her objective and risk profile), so it was not 
unsuitable.
Risk warnings/information associated with the recommendation were given over two 
of the suitability reports pages, so Mrs H was aware of the risks in the investment.
Evidence shows Mrs H was paying for ongoing advice at the rate of 0.75%. The 
recommendation was made in 2017, she had an annual review in 2018 but received 
none in 2019. Quilter says much of what would have happened in the 2019 review 
(an update and review of her profile, review of her investments and their 
performance, valuations, investment commentary and advice review) were covered 
by performance discussions in emails sent to her in February, March, June and 
\November 2019; and in withdrawal advice given to her in June 2019. However, it 
accepts a review should nevertheless have taken place in 2019 and it has offered 
£100 compensation in this respect. This is not enough and should be increased to 
£375  in addition to the £100 Quilter has offered Mrs H separately for the trouble 
and upset the matter caused her.
Quilter accepted this outcome, but Mrs H strongly disagreed with it. She said her assets had 
a zero risk background, with her money not previously invested in the stock market but 
instead held in savings, so she should have been considered a conservative/low risk 
investor and the notion of a portfolio with 92.5% exposure to the stock market was totally 
unsuitable. In addition, she said assets in the portfolio should not have been bought if short 
term withdrawals were planned, but those assets were bought despite her disclosure to the 
AR that she  may be making Ad Hoc withdrawals. Mrs H also asserted that the ongoing 
advice fee was 1%, not 0.75%, and that the AR was not an independent (whole-of-market) 
adviser as she was led to believe he was  instead, he was tied to Quilter.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view. She noted that the recommendation 
was not automatically unsuitable just because Mrs Hs capital did not have previous 
exposure to risk, and that suitability required assessment of her overall profile at the time; 
that if she had wanted to maintain her capital in the same savings status she could have 
done so without need for an adviser; that her objective suggested otherwise and reflected 
that she might want to make withdrawals but she wanted to invest for a period of five years; 
and that there is documentary evidence in which the ongoing advice fee rate of 0.75% is 
stated.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of key elements to consider in terms of suitability (or otherwise) of an 
investment. They are  the investors profile at the time of the recommendation (objective(s), 
attitude to risk (ATR), investment experience and affordability status); whether (or not), on 
balance, the recommendation matched the investors profile; and whether (or not), on 
balance, the investor was informed about the nature of the recommended investment and its 
risks.
Mrs H is correct about the status of her capital prior to the fund/portfolio investment in 2017. 
Her money was held completely in savings and there is evidence to support this. However, 
there is also evidence that she actively sought something different at the time. She does not 
appear to have disputed the contents of suitability report that was sent to her  there does 
not appear to be evidence of such dispute, so I consider the report to be reliable. 
The implication that arises from the absence of her objection (at the time) to the reports 
statements of facts is that she agreed with the reports description of her objective  and of 
the other parts of her circumstances. That description was as follows:
You would like to look at how this money could be invested to provide you with potentially 
higher levels of capital growth. This is the main purpose of your investments because you are hopeful that you can achieve returns over and above those produced by a bank or 
building society and achieve improved tax efficiency concurrently.
and:
You asked me to consider investments for a period of 5 years or more, and you don't expect 
to need access to your capital during this term which I have taken into account in my 
recommendation.
The above shows that despite the fact Mrs Hs capital was previously held in savings, she 
wanted to change that and she wanted to do so in order to have the chance of achieving 
returns that were better than what she could get from holding her capital in savings. This 
means it would be unreasonable to take a view on the ARs recommendation in the context 
of how her money was previously held. She no longer wanted that, she wanted better 
returns, so her pursuit for that is the correct context in which to consider the other aspects of 
suitability in her case.
The above analysis leads to the issue of Mrs Hs ATR. She has referred to the 
conservative/low risk profile as the profile that was suited to her. Above this profile was the 
balanced profile, and above that was the moderate profile. The suitability report addressed a 
number of factors in its assessment of her overall ATR. The assessment was not just limited 
to the risk profile category. As the investigator said, assessment for this category first arrived 
at the moderate profile, but both sides discussed further and agreed on the balanced profile. 
This is reflected in the report. Beyond, but relevant to, the profile selection the assessment 
also considered management type and investment strategy (including rebalancing). Having 
already confirmed agreement on the balanced profile the report proceeded to also say: 
Chosen Investment Strategy
 you would like to invest tactically and actively using wider asset classes but you want to 
ensure that your Conservative risk profile is retained and agreed that you would want to 
invest in a fund that is monitored and rebalanced for this purpose. [my emphasis]
Overall, I consider that Mrs H probably had a risk averse background  illustrated by her 
capital being previously held in savings; she also probably had a conservative/low risk 
outlook in general  as she presently says and as the AR reflected in the quote above; but 
she had a specific pursuit in the 2017 investment (for which she sought/received advice), 
which was to expose her capital to better prospects of better returns; the risk and reward 
correlation is widely known in investments and it is evident in the suitability report that she 
was informed about this, and informed that pursuing higher returns required exposure to 
more and higher risks (information in the report makes this quite clear to her, so it is likely 
that the verbal discussions that were held did the same); and it appears to be in this context 
that she struck a compromise between the moderate profile that was assessed as matching 
her pursuit and the conservative outlook she naturally had, the result being the balanced 
profile she agreed to. This finding extends to cover Mrs Hs novice investor profile and lack 
of stock market experience at the time. Neither means the recommendation was 
automatically unsuitable, especially given that she appears to have wilfully departed from 
both in order to pursue something new based on the compromise.
On balance and for the above reasons, I do not consider that Mrs Hs ATR for the 
investment was conservative, it was balanced, and the balanced model portfolio matched 
that ATR. There was also suitability in the MAMM fund that was recommended and in the 
use of a NISA alongside the CIA. The MAMM fund provided access to and diversification in 
sub-funds (and asset types) and managers without having to face too many layers of fund 
and management related costs. The NISA is a mainstream tax efficiency related investment wrapper and it, and the CIA, were invested in a dedicated/model balanced portfolio  with 
the CIA also playing the role of an annual feeder to the NISA, in the context of tax efficiency. 
I note Mrs Hs point about exposure to the stock market. Evidence about the model portfolio 
does not appear to support her reference to 92.5% exposure. In 2017, the portfolio appears 
to have had equities content totalling around 40%, balanced by a mix of other asset classes 
(including around 7% cash, around 5% property and around 7% high yield bonds). Overall, it 
was a portfolio that was targeted for a balanced profile.
Mrs H had the financial capacity (affordability status) for the investment. She was debt free, 
she had surplus income and the capital that was invested appears to have been earmarked 
for nothing. She reserved a relatively significant amount  £35,000  for emergencies and 
there is no evidence that any planned expenditure, with regards to the £100,000 that was 
invested, was overlooked in the ARs advice. Mrs H says she raised the possibility that she 
might make ad hoc withdrawals, but that was not the same as confirmation of a definite or 
planned short term need for withdrawals, and the suitability report  as quoted above  
refers to her agreement to the five years (plus) investment term that was recommended.
Mrs H was issued a suitability report that was informative and that explained the ARs 
recommendation, the context for it and the reasons for it. Overall, on balance and for the 
above reasons, I conclude that the recommendation was not unsuitable for her. I also have 
not seen evidence to establish, on balance, that the AR misrepresented his tied association 
with Quilter or that his association in that respect caused a detriment to Mrs H. Like the 
investigator, I am satisfied that there was sufficient (and clear) content in the suitability report 
that explained, to Mrs H, the risks associated with his recommendation. She does not 
appear to have been misled in this respect.
With regards to the ongoing advice matter, the suitability report and the 2017 service 
authorisation document Mrs H signed both confirmed the fee rate of 0.75% for ongoing 
advice. The initial advice was given in 2017. There is evidence of the 2018 review she 
received. Then there is evidence of the 2019 withdrawal advice she received. It is not 
disputed that there was no annual review in 2019, and she appears to have terminated the 
ARs service by the end of 2019. The contents of the 2019 withdrawal advice document 
include the following: 
We last met as part of our annual review on  25th September 2018
You confirmed to me that there have been no changes in your circumstances since our last 
meeting where we completed a full review.
You confirmed to me that there are no other foreseeable changes likely in the future that will 
impact on the advice I provide today, and that there are no other planned material 
expenditures or liabilities due in the next year that will be impacted by the advice Im giving 
you now.
We agreed that 
As you are paying me an ongoing service fee there will be no further charge for this advice.
In the above context, whilst the AR missed the 2019 official annual review Mrs H was 
entitled to (and paid for), the withdrawal advice event appears to have served a purpose 
somewhat beyond the specific withdrawal itself. It appears that the AR considered matters 
akin to what would have featured in an annual review and that, because of Mrs Hs 
entitlement to ongoing advice, she was not charged for the withdrawal advice. Nevertheless, 
it remains an undisputed fact that she did not receive the official annual review in 2019 that 
she was entitled to and this is the part of her complaint that I uphold  but it is upheld in the 
above context. Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I agree with the investigators 
recommendation of £375 in compensation to Mrs H for being deprived the official annual 
review she was entitled to. I am not persuaded by her claim for a full refund of the initial and 
ongoing advice fees because she received the initial advice in 2017 (which was not 
unsuitable), she received ongoing advice/annual review in 2018 and she received withdrawal 
advice (and some considerations by the AR akin to a review) in 2019 as captured in the 
quotes above. In these circumstances a full refund of fees would be unfair. 
Putting things right
I agree with the £100 that Quilter has offered Mrs H for the trouble and upset caused to her 
by the missing annual review and I endorse (and incorporate) the investigators finding that 
she should receive an additional £375 as compensation for the annual review service failure, 
making a total of £475. I order Quilter to pay Mrs H £475 for these reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I order Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay her £475 in total compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman