DRN-3758862
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr K complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have failed to 
refund over £10,000 they lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. For ease of reference, 
Ill only refer to Mrs D throughout this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
It isnt in dispute that Mrs D authorised the disputed payments she made to her crypto/E-
money wallets (where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers). 
The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials provided 
by Halifax, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by 
their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more to prevent Mrs D from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
The first two debit card payments Mrs D made to Circle Payments and Wisenex would 
not have appeared particularly out of character when compared with the pattern of 
spending usually associated with her account. However, it isnt in dispute that the next 
payment of £10,000 Mrs D made to Binance on 2 June 2021 was unusual given that it 
did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and was automatically blocked pending 
further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in 
all the circumstances with that intervention.
Halifax called Mrs D on 2 June 2021 and asked extensive questions about the nature of 
the payment. Most notably, she was asked whether anyone was helping her make the 
payment, but she told the agent that nobody else was involved and that no one else had 
access to her crypto wallet either. Halifax asked Mrs D what she intended to do with the 
funds after transferring them to her wallet, to which she replied that the funds would 
remain in the account. It also warned her against making the payment if she had been 
speaking to anyone claiming to be an investment broker online, which was precisely 
what had happened in this instance, as she had found the scam broker through an 
advert on YouTube. 
Having considered the questions Halifax asked during its intervention  as well as the 
responses given by Mrs D  Im not persuaded there was anything further the bank could 
have done to have prevented the payment from being made. I appreciate she may have 
been coached to say these things by the scammer. But Mrs D was warned about the 
precise scenario she had found herself in, i.e. investing in cryptocurrency with a broker 
she found online, but she still didnt divulge the true nature of the payment she was 
making. 
I think Halifax asked appropriate questions of Mrs D, which were ultimately led by the 
answers she gave. If she had answered the questions accurately and said she was in 
contact with a third-party broker, then I accept it would have been incumbent on Halifax 
to maintain suspicion about the payment and probe further into the circumstances. But 
seeing as Mrs D was not forthcoming with these details even after a clear warning, I 
dont think the bank could have done anything more to have prevented the loss in these 
circumstances.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mrs D reported the fraud, as in some circumstances debit card payments can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, 
Mrs D used her debit card to pay legitimate crypto exchange/money transfer platforms 
before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, she wouldnt be 
able to make a successful chargeback claim for these card payments because the 
merchant she paid had provided the services as intended. 
In terms of the faster payment Mrs D made to Binance, there also wouldve been very 
little prospect of recovering the funds from the receiving account given they had already 
been transferred out to the scammer. And Halifax are also under no obligation to refund 
this payment to Mrs D under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, 
as the Code does not apply to payments which the payer has effectively made to 
themselves (which would have been the case here given the payment was made to 
Mrs Ds own crypto wallet with Binance.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs D, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Halifax can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reason given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman