DRN-2823866
The complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC wont refund payments he says he didnt 
make with his credit card.
What happened
Mr A disputes two payments made to the same retailer on 8 July 2020  the first was for 
£1,031.80 and the second for £457.24. He says that he didnt make these payments or 
attempt to use his card again until 13 July 2020. His card was declined at the same retailer 
that day and he used a debit card with a different business. Mr A says he contacted Tesco to 
report what happened and thinks it should have stopped these unusual payments. He is also 
unhappy that it didnt respond to him and applied over limit fees to his account.
Tesco said it wouldnt be refunding these disputed payments. They were both made when 
the chip on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered. The last time Mr A had 
used his PIN was on 24 June 2020. And there was no explanation of how someone could 
have discovered that. These werent identified as fraudulent at the time and it noted that    
Mr A had shopped in the store before and the fact that these were high value didnt mean 
they should have been blocked. It accepted that its service in dealing with Mr A could been 
better and paid him compensation of £50 and refunded three over limit fees of £12 each.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr A lived with his partner 
and son and didnt suspect them. He kept his card in a cardholder and although he had 
written the PIN down initially he had now memorised it. There was an attempt to use the 
card on 11 July 2020 to buy train tickets which was declined, and Mr A said that this wasnt 
by him. He tried to buy items online on 13 July 2020 and later found those payments were 
declined as was his genuine attempt that day to spend £98.03 at the same retailer. Mr A 
believed he had his card in his possession during the period. Our investigator said it was 
unlikely a third party would have been able to take it and then replace it without him knowing. 
Our investigator said that Tesco had originally refunded the payments while it investigated 
but had re-debited them on 17 August 2020 and applied over limit charges in line with the 
agreement. It said it couldnt find a record of a letter from Mr A dated 24 August 2020 about 
this but accepted it hadnt responded to his further letter of 28 September 2020. And so, it 
had provided the compensation and refunded the over limit fees to reflect poor service. She 
thought this was a reasonable response. There was nothing to show Tesco had made a 
mistake in not flagging these payments as suspicious. It was a matter for the police to 
consider any criminal investigation and this included obtaining any relevant CCTV.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as 
is the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card. 
So, Ive thought about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- Whats the most likely explanation of how the payments were made?
- Did Mr A authorise these payments which might have involved allowing someone else to 
use his card?
- Did Tesco act reasonably?
Ive seen a copy of the audit log for these payments. Im satisfied that the genuine card was 
present and used and that the correct PIN was entered and so the payments disputed were 
authenticated. There was a further attempt to use the card on 11 July 2020 which was 
declined because the account was over the limit. 
I need to think about whether Mr A consented to the use of his card which might have 
involved allowing someone else to use it.
The last time a PIN was used to make a genuine transaction on the account before these 
disputed ones was on 24 June 2020. There was then a contactless transaction on 4 July 
2020 and the card details were used online on 5 July 2020 to make a payment. There is no 
clear way in which an unknown third party could have obtained Mr As card and then been 
able to use on it 8 July 2020 having discovered the PIN. Id also think it most likely that a 
fraudster in possession of the card and PIN would use this as quickly as possible to access 
the available balance on the account. Ive not been provided with any evidence of a balance 
enquiry on the account and the next disputed use came on 11 July 2020  and this payment 
attempt was declined. Mr A clearly had the card on 13 July 2020, and I dont see why an 
unknown third party would have taken the risk of returning it to him.
Mr A says he didnt then keep his PIN written down and doesnt see that anyone known to 
him would have made these payments. So, I dont have a basis to think someone else say 
with access to his property could have made these payments either.
Im afraid that leaves the most likely explanation to be that Mr A either made these payments 
himself or allowed someone else to use his card. So, I think it was reasonable for Tesco to 
hold him responsible for them. His point that Tesco should have alerted him to them would 
only really be relevant if I thought he hadnt authorised them. These didnt trigger any fraud 
alert and Mr A had used his card before at this retailer. It was a matter for Tesco to decide to 
allow payments that took his account balance over the limit.I dont have anything to add to what our investigator has said about the service issues in 
Tesco dealing with Mr A after the payments were re-debited. I appreciate how unwelcome 
that was for him and that he wanted an explanation. I agree that Tescos response to what 
happened by paying him compensation of £50 and refunding the over limit fees was 
reasonable.
I know Mr A will be very disappointed by my conclusions given what is at stake for him. But I 
dont have a reasonable basis to require Tesco to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC doesnt need to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman