DRN-3150122
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain about Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com 
(Aviva) for declining their claim for damage sustained to their wall. They want Aviva to 
cover their claim and reimburse them for the costs they incurred in dismantling the unsafe 
wall. 
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P held home insurance with Aviva. This included buildings and contents cover, 
with limited accidental damage cover, but did not include the additional accidental damage 
cover. 
In summer 2021, there was an altercation outside Mrs P and Mr Ps home in which 4 police 
officers pushed a man against their wall. This was done with such force that it caused a hole 
to be made in the wall, measuring around 1x2 feet. 
Mrs P and Mr P submitted a claim for the damage. They were concerned as the wall was 
now bowing and appeared unstable. It faced onto a path which was near to a school and 
they were worried that it may collapse causing further damage. 
Mrs P and Mr P obtained a quote from their builder of around £2000 for repairs. They 
provided this to Aviva. 
Aviva considered the claim and declined the claim. Aviva considered that the incident was 
not included within the policy wording for impact damage. This covered:
Being hit by:
b) aircraft or other flying objects or items dropped from them; 
b) vehicles or animals.
Under (b) we will not cover loss or damage caused by domestic animals
 
Aviva said that the impact was not covered under this heading, and accidental damage 
cover had not been included when the policy was taken out.
Mrs P and Mr P complained. They consider that as animal is not defined in the policy then 
human beings should be acknowledged as animals for the purpose of the clause. They say 
that as domestic animals are explicitly excluded, and humans are not, then it is not fair to 
decline their claim.
Aviva sent its final response to their complaint in June 2021. It reiterated that it did not find 
that the circumstances of the claim were covered. 
Mrs P and Mr P contacted us. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He explained that where terms are not fully 
defined then the generally understood meaning of the word should be used. He therefore did 
not consider that animals included humans, and he did not think that Aviva had acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. 
Mrs P and Mr P did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs P and Mr Ps upset in relation to this claim decision. It must be very 
upsetting to find that their wall was damaged by a neighbour and the police and to not have 
clear recourse to this being put right. This is particularly the case as the police have rejected 
liability for the damage. 
I do, however, have to look at whether the business acted reasonably in looking at the claim. 
This complaint centres entirely on the interpretation of the word animals as there is no other 
included peril which could meet the circumstances of this complaint. Mrs P and Mr P think 
that, as humans are biologically categorised as animals, then impact from humans ought to 
be included. 
I understand this view, and I understand that Mrs P and Mr P feel that any ambiguity should 
be decided in their favour, but in this circumstance I do not agree. 
As my colleague explained, when terms are not explicitly defined then they are given their 
natural, ordinary meaning. In ordinary usage, a distinction is applied between people and 
animals, and I agree that this distinction should continue in this case. I note that the policy 
wording otherwise uses person or people in the wording as distinct terms from animals.
For example, the policy has a general exclusion which excludes damage arising from a 
criminal act caused by you or any other person living with you. This exclusion is not directly 
applicable here, of course, but I think it demonstrates that people are treated as a distinct 
group within the policy. 
Impacts from that distinct group are not included in the cover for being hit and so, whilst I 
understand that this will be disappointing to Mrs P and Mr P, I agree with my colleagues 
view that cover does not extend to this claim. I therefore do not uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint and do not ask 
Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman