DRN-3763602
The complaint
Mrs M complains that New Wave Capital Limited trading as Capital on Tap contacted her 
again about a debt she had no involvement with.
What happened
Mrs M explains that her name was used to take out credit fraudulently. And having contacted 
police that Capital on Tap agreed that she had no responsibility for the debt. She is upset 
that in August 2022 she received a letter from Capital on Tap about this debt indicating that it 
did hold her responsible as a guarantor.
Capital on Tap said that an automated collections notice was sent out on 5 August 2022. 
And this had been sent to Mrs M as she was still listed on the account. It accepted it had told 
Mrs M in January 2021 that it would be taking action against the individuals responsible for 
the fraud. And that it couldnt show that any further action had been taken. Capital on Tap 
apologised and stated to avoid further upset, the balance will be written off, the account will 
be closed, and the Capital on Tap account will be removed from yours and the business 
credit file.
Our investigator noted what Mrs M had said about the impact of this further contact on her. 
And he contacted Capital on Tap about this and it offered to pay Mrs M £150 which he 
thought was reasonable. He told Mrs M that this service wouldnt be able to direct that 
Capital on Tap provide legal assurances that this had been dealt with and if thats what she 
wanted she may need to access legal support. He gave her information about how she could 
check that her credit record had been corrected.
Mrs M said that she wanted an ombudsmans review before she decided what to do. She 
said that a crime had been committed and Capital on Tap hadnt followed procedures. She 
had received assurances before and these hadnt been kept to. And what was offered may 
have been acceptable when this came to light but not now. Mrs M said that the impact on 
her including her mental health couldnt be put into words.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mrs M has been the victim of fraud. And she thought that Capital on 
Tap had dealt with this. And based on what it says in the final response letter shed agreed 
to make a statement and or appear in court to help it.
Unfortunately, Capital on Tap hadnt followed through with what itd told her. In August 2022 
it sent a collections letter which brought things back for her. And showed that things hadnt 
been resolved in the way shed expected.
Its now agreed to put that right. While we provide informal dispute resolution if Mrs M 
accepts my decision that would be binding on Capital on Tap. And as its identified the 
mistake I dont have reason now to doubt that its taken the actions it said it would. 
I need to focus on the error in August 2022 and the distress Capital on Tap rather than the 
original fraudster had caused to Mrs M. Shes not said theres been any financial loss for her. 
Capital on Tap has now made an offer of £150 to reflect what happened and I think that this 
is reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to do more than that. 
My final decision
Capital on Tap has now made any offer to settle this complaint which I think is reasonable in 
all the circumstances. So, my decision is that New Wave Capital Limited trading as Capital 
on Tap should take the actions its agreed to as follows:
1) Pay Mrs M £150.
2) Remove her name from the account and its business credit file and not hold her 
responsible for this borrowing.
3) Ensure that it doesnt report any information linking Mrs M to this borrowing to 
external credit reference agencies and remove all existing reports and confirm to  
Mrs M when its done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman