DRN-4457262
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds (Accredited) handling of
their claim for damage caused by an escape of water, under their home buildings insurance
policy.
Mr and Mrs J are represented by their daughter Ms L in their complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J were out of the country when a neighbour noticed an escape of water at their
property on 17 December 2022. A claim was raised with Accredited prior to their return on 3
January 2023. Ms L says progress of the claim was slow. Her mother accepted a settlement
payment, but this didnt cover the cost of the repairs.
Ms L says Accredited hasnt contributed toward the cost of supporting her parents. This
involved Ms Ls daughter vacating her room for Mr and Mrs J to sleep in. Shes experienced
long waiting times on the phone, and staff have spoken to her rudely. In addition, Ms L says
no settlement payment has been provided for the contents damaged by the escape of water.
She wants Accredited to pay compensation for the stress and delays experienced.
In its final complaint response letter dated 15 May 2023, Accredited says the damage was
assessed and a scope of works was produced. The property was declared dry on 11
January 2023. It says another inspection was required due to further damage that was
identified. A settlement offer was then made based on the scope of works. This was
£12,362.42 less the policy excess.
Accredited says there was confusion as to whether alternative accommodation was required.
Due to this confusion, and the problems it caused, £300 was paid to Mr and Mrs J, which
they accepted. Accredited says its settlement offer was paid in line with Mr and Mrs Js
policy terms and they have been compensated for any distress and inconvenience caused. It
says they have another complaint about their claim, which it is looking into.
Ms L contacted our service and asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator upheld Mr
and Mrs Js complaint in part. She didnt think Accredited had caused any unavoidable
delays. She says its settlement payment was provided in line with its policy terms. But she
says Accredited should consider paying a disruption allowance for the duration Mr and Mrs J
had to stay with their daughter.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept our investigators findings, neither did Accredited. Both parties
asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint in part. Let me explain.
A plumber was called to stop the leak at Mr and Mrs Js home, which was caused by frozen
pipes. Unfortunately, as the pipes burst in the attic this caused damage throughout their
home. A surveyor visited Mr and Mrs Js property on 28 December 2022 to assess the
damage. I can that the installation of drying kit was requested by the surveyor.
Ive seen a further report dated 5 January 2023 relating to another surveyors visit. This says
a plumber had carried out repairs to the affected pipework and that, reinstatement of the
mains electrics was awaited. The report also refers to asbestos testing, and says the results
are pending. The surveyor summarised the damage as below:
Bedroom No 1 displayed decorative damage consistent with the reported peril, evident by
damp staining and deflection to the texture finished ceiling, while the interlocking joints to the
MDF 'woodgrain' effect laminate flooring were visibly swollen. The adjacent bedroom, No 2,
displayed partial collapse to the texture finished ceiling, while part removal of the laminate
flooring was also noted. Swelling/extension to the laminate flooring within entrance hallway
was also noted, which extended further into the lounge. The kitchen was partially
compromised by expansion the base unit veneered end panels and plinths, while damp
staining to the flat emulsion painted walls at low level was evident. Part removal of the vinyl
[sic] sheet flooring within the utility room and bathroom had also been undertaken.
The surveyor caveats his report to say a further visit will be required to validate all necessary
repairs, when the property is dry.
From a report dated 11 January 2023 an assessor deemed the property was now dry.
Albeit with the caveat that some areas have elevated readings but, will dry naturally.
A further survey was completed on 27 January 2023. In the report the surveyor says:
Additional works have been incorporated into the scope, which transpired following our
initial visit, while further testing of Bedroom 1, Bedroom 3 and the Entrance Hallway ceiling
for possible asbestos has been requested via Trinity Tech. Removal of the laminate flooring
within the 3 no Bedrooms and Lounge revealed the presence of vinyl floor tiles, which in part
were de-bonded, and a request for additional testing for potential asbestos content has also
been made. The policyholders are currently residing with daughter, and we understand an
allowance for A/A is currently in place, while the policyholders expressed frustration at the
slow progress of the claim to-date.
Ive carefully considered these reports. From what Ive read Accredited assessed the
damage, arranged for the property to be dried out and produced a scope of works based on
the damage its surveyor identified. This is what wed expect to happen in these
circumstances.
Ive read Mr and Mrs Js policy terms to understand what it says about settling a claim. The
terms say:
Settling claims under building covers
How much we will pay
For loss or damage to the buildings, we will pay up to the full cost of rebulding, as long asthe buildings are regularly maintained, in a good state of repair and that are insured for the
full cost of rebuilding
When settling your claim, if we decide that we can offer rebuilding work, repairs or
replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following options.
a) We will choose a contactor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to carry out
the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements.
b) We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost us to use
our preferred contractor.
And:
If we cannot offer rebuilding work, repairs or replacements (as defined by us) through our
preferred contractor we will pay you:
a) fair and reasonable costs to have the work carried out by your chosen supplier.
From the claim records Mr and Mrs J wanted to appoint their own builder to carry out the
repairs. Ive listened to a call Ms L had with Accrediteds claim handler. During this call it was
explained that when the final scope of works was known, it would offer a settlement payment
of for its contractors to complete the repairs.
Based on this evidence I dont think Accredited treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly when offering
the settlement payment, it did. It assessed the repairs based on the scope of works its
surveyor had produced, and provided a payment based on its assessment of the work
required.
That said I dont think Accrediteds agent handled the call Ive listened to with Ms L very well.
Ms L was frustrated at the lack of information that was provided to her and her parents about
the claim. This was after waiting 26 minutes for the call to be connected. The agent
answered some queries, but towards the end of the call he sounded disinterested. I think the
agent couldve been more engaged and willing to try and help Ms L. This supports what she
says about being spoken to rudely and waiting a long time for calls to connect.
Ive thought about Ms Ls concerns that she received no contribution from Accredited toward
the cost of the support she provided when accommodating her parents. This was for the full
period whilst their home was uninhabitable due to the escape of water.
I can see that Mr and Mrs Js policy provides for alternative accommodation if their home
becomes uninhabitable. The terms say:
Alternative accommodation
We will pay up to £100,000 for:
a. the reasonable and necessary costs for alternative accommodation for your and your
family; and
b. any rent which you may have to pay;
if you cannot stay in your home because your home has become unfit for living in following
loss or damage that is insured by this section.
How much we will pay for alternative accommodation will depend on your familys needs and
you must agree the costs with us before you pay.Ive looked through the claim records and evidence supplied by Ms L to understand what
was discussed around alternative accommodation (AA).
A claim note from 6 January 2023 says the surveyor told Accredited that AA would be
required. But Mrs J had advised they were staying with Ms L. The note says the handler is to
decide on what to do. A note dated 19 January was made following a contact from Ms L.
She told Accredited about the difficulties with the current living arrangements, with her
parents using her daughters room. The records show that a disturbance allowance was
authorised. A payment of £300 was offered at this point.
Ms L was asked to research suitable properties for her parents AA needs. I can see from her
timeline of events that she uploaded this information to Accrediteds online portal. This is
reflected in the claim notes on 25 January 2023. A claim record five days later says the AA
options were now out of date, and Ms L should provide updated options. The records say Ms
L was to look into this.
Ms L called Accredited on 3 February 2023. She was asked about AA and told the agent Mrs
J was, very distressed about the whole thing and could not discuss presently. Ms L noted
that the agent told her he will call when he has news.
I cant see any further reference to AA in the claim records. Our investigator asked
Accredited if there was any further discussion with either Ms L or Mr and Mrs J about this. It
responded to say the issue of AA was left with Ms L after its agents phone call with her on 3
February 2023. It says the agent didnt want to pressure Mrs J given that she was already
upset at the mention of AA.
Having thought carefully about this point, I think Accrediteds agent couldve done more to
assist Mr and Mrs J with consideration of suitable AA. It acknowledges there was confusion
in the initial notes its surveyor made. This indicated AA wasnt required, when in fact it was. I
think its fair that Accredited offered £300 compensation for the confusion around this point.
But the records show it was Ms L who had to push for AA to be considered.
The difficulty the living arrangements were causing were highlighted several times. Ms L
uploaded information to the portal about suitable AA. From her notes, she was told the portal
didnt work. Mrs J was upset when Accrediteds agent mentioned AA during the call on 3
February 2023. But I think a more pro-active and supportive approach overall, to assessing
whether AA was needed, wouldve been helpful from an early juncture in this claim.
Mr and Mrs Js policy provides for AA. However, I cant see that the terms require payment
of a disruption allowance in the event that they are able to stay with a relative. So, I dont
agree with our investigator that Accredited is required to pay a disruption payment for the
time Mr and Mrs J were staying with their daughter. I do, however, acknowledge that the 
situation couldve been handled better by Accrediteds agents. I think its fair that it provides 
a compensation payment to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience this caused them.
I note Ms Ls reference to receiving no payment for the support she provided. Im not able to
consider this. Accredited has a contract with Mr and Mrs J through their insurance policy.
Although Ms L has represented them throughout their claim, and complaint, Im not able to
require the business to compensate her directly as she isnt its policyholder.
Having thought about all of this, I dont think Accredited treated Mr and Mrs J fairly in its
handling of the AA issue. It should pay a further £300 for the distress and inconvenience this
caused. But I think it treated Mr and Mrs J fairly when assessing the scope of the repairs and
offering the settlement payment, it did.I understand Ms L has a separate complaint regarding her parents contents insurance cover
and how this part of their claim was handled. But this isnt something I can consider here.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and Accredited should:
pay Mr and Mrs J £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider, 
neither did Accredited. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd 
should:
pay Mr and Mrs J £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman