DRN-4423664
The complaint
Mr Y complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) re-debited a payment taken from his debit card 
and wont now refund this. 
What happened
In November 2022, Mr Y signed up for a one-month free trial for a premium subscription 
service with a company Ill call L. In December 2022, L took £839.88 from Mr Ys bank 
account using the debit card details hed given to them.
Mr Y contacted TSB as he wasnt happy that the money had been debited. TSB raised a 
chargeback. In doing so, they re-credited Mr Ys account with the amount L had taken. TSB 
received a defence to the chargeback and re-debited the money from Mr Ys account in 
March 2023.
Mr Y complained to TSB but they didnt uphold his complaint. Our investigator looked into 
what had happened and felt that TSB had acted fairly. Mr Y didnt agree and so his 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will be looking at whether TSB did anything wrong in the way they handled the chargeback 
claim. 
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. What this means here is 
that TSB can in some circumstances ask for a transaction to be reversed if theres a problem 
with the goods or services supplied by the merchant that the consumer paid for. But the 
chargeback process doesnt give the consumer legal rights and it isnt guaranteed to result in 
a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response to the request the bank 
submits. 
There first must be a right to apply for a chargeback under the card scheme rules. And Id 
consider it to be good practice for TSB to raise a chargeback if it has a good chance of being 
successful. Its important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the card schemes 
rules, not the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. 
So, its not for TSB  or me  to decide whether Mr Y should be allowed to reclaim the 
money he paid to L. TSB should raise the appropriate chargeback and consider whether any 
filed defence complies with the relevant chargeback rules. From what Ive seen, thats what 
TSB likely did in respect of the claim. Ill explain why.
TSB raised a chargeback based on what Mr Y told them about the transaction. Ive seen a 
copy of the form that Mr Y signed which declared that the transaction was fraudulent. That is 
the basis on which the chargeback was then raised by TSB. 
L defended the chargeback on the basis that Mr Y had signed up for the one-month trial for 
their premium subscription service and hadnt cancelled the recurring payment before it was 
due. L also said Mr Y had been notified about the expiration of the free trial and that he 
would be charged if it wasnt cancelled, but he failed to do this. And L sent evidence that 
they said showed that Mr Ys profile with L matched the name on the receipt for payment. 
Where the merchant challenges a chargeback, as happened here, a bank doesnt have to 
carry out a detailed investigation into what actually happened to decide which party deserves 
the money. In fact, most banks wont take a chargeback any further if its defended. In this 
case, TSB decided not to take the dispute any further because they didnt think it had a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mr Y had raised this as fraud, and L provided evidence 
that he did sign up for the trial and hadnt cancelled the recurring payment in time. I cant say 
that TSB made any mistake or acted incorrectly by making that decision.
I note since then Mr Y has said that he couldnt access Ls premium service. That is though 
a different argument to the one he made to TSB initially and Ive not seen that he said that to 
TSB after the chargeback was defended. But even if Mr Y did say this to TSB, there doesnt 
appear to be much evidence that Mr Y sought to raise this with L or that there was no 
possibility they couldnt have taken steps to help him access this as he required. So, Im not 
convinced TSB had suitable evidence in which to take matters any further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman