DRN-2598688
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the way I Go 4 Ltd (IGO) handled the cancellation of her car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss H bought a car insurance policy with a broker, IGO. IGO acted as an agent of the 
insurer in relation to the collection of premiums. On 18 May 2019 Miss H cancelled her policy 
as she sold her car. On the same day IGO said Miss H owed a balance of £260.55. 
On 4 June 2019 Miss H contacted IGO as a payment for £213.66 had been collected by 
Direct Debit on 3 June 2019 - after the policy had cancelled. IGO arranged for the finance 
company to refund the payment collected after cancellation to Miss H. 
In October 2019 IGO wrote to Miss H. It said she owed a revised balance of £213.66. Miss H 
believed this to be an error  as this was the same amount as the refund IGO provided for 
the overpayment - and so she didnt reply. 
Six months later in April 2020 IGO wrote to Miss H to say she owed £213.66 and provided a 
further breakdown of the charges. 
In August 2020 IGO referred the balance to a debt recovery agent. Miss H contacted IGO 
and said she was promised a call back but didnt receive one. Miss H made several calls to 
IGO during August 2020 and raised a complaint. She was unhappy that she had been 
passed between departments and IGO seemed unable to explain what she owed the 
balance for. She also emailed IGO but didnt receive a reply. She disputed the amount IGO 
said she owed. 
In September 2020 IGO replied to Miss Hs complaint. It said it had made an error. IGO said 
the breakdown of £260.55 which it said Miss H owed on 18 May 2019 was on the basis the 
payment in June was made. 
For its error, IGO agreed to reduce the final balance Miss H owed by £100. So it upheld her 
complaint and asked Miss H to pay a reduced balance of £113.66.
Miss H remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator found that IGO had led Miss H to believe she owed nothing further in June 
2019 when it refunded the payment made by Direct Debit after cancellation. He thought it 
was unreasonable for IGO to contact Miss H three months later to request a balance. And he 
found that IGO didnt contact Miss H again for a further six months. He didnt think it was fair 
for IGO to continue action through the debt recovery agent before it investigate and replied 
to her complaint. 
The investigator thought  due to the length of time IGO took to contact Miss H  it wasnt 
fair to request the balance from Miss H. He thought in addition to waiving the total amount of 
£213.66, IGO should pay Miss H compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the gap in contacting Miss H for the balance, the many contact attempts Miss H 
made without success and the referral to a debt recovery agent.  
IGO didnt agree. It said it accepted there was a delay, but it was within time legally for it to 
request the balance. And as the amount related to insurance cover which was provided, it 
didnt think the amount should be waived. IGO believes it has done enough to put things 
right by reducing the balance by £100. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong, we look at what a business did to put things right and whether this is 
reasonable. 
In this case, IGO says that the amount refunded to Miss H for the June payment shouldnt 
have been refunded - as it was taken into account in the balance she owed on cancellation 
on 18 May 2019. I dont think this was clear from the breakdown it gave Miss H on 18 May 
2019. So I can understand why Miss H believes the amount IGO has asked her to pay isnt 
right. 
I think if IGO had promptly contacted Miss H about the the error it made with a clear 
explanation, it would have been reasonable to request the balance. However, IGO led Miss 
H to believe that the cancellation had been finalised and she owed no further money when it 
refunded the June payment to her. 
I dont think it was reasonable to contact Miss H three months later on 15 October 2019  
and then not contact her again for another six months  to request a balance. In October 
2019, again IGO didnt explain that it had made an error and it didnt provide an updated 
breakdown. So I can understand why Miss H believed the communication in October 2019 to 
be either an error or a scam. And having heard nothing further from IGO until April 2020, I 
think was very poor service. 
Miss H contacted IGO many times by phone and email. But she didnt receive a call back 
when promised or a reply to clarify what the balance was for. I dont think IGO made it clear 
that the closing balance included a payment which wasnt due until two weeks after the 
cancellation date. So I think IGO caused confusion and upset by its poor communication and 
I can understand Miss Hs frustration and upset. 
Putting things right
I agree with the investigators recommendations. I think they are fair as IGO acted on behalf 
of the insurer in relation to premium collection. Im therefore upholding Miss Hs complaint 
and I think IGO needs to put things right as set out below.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require I GO 4 Ltd. to do the following:
Waive the outstanding balance it says Miss H owes following the cancellation of her policy in May 2019.
Arrange for the removal of any adverse credit markers and ensure Miss H isnt 
contacted by a debt recovery agent for the cancellation balance. 
Pay Miss H £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I GO 4 Ltd. must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If I GO 4 Ltd. considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It should also give Miss H a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman