DRN-2561538
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined its 
application for a Bounce Back Loan and subsequently closed its bank account. 
Mr S is Rs director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
R held a bank account with Barclays. Mr S attempted to submit a Bounce Back Loan 
application to Barclays through Rs online banking, but was unable to do so. He received a 
message advising that he couldnt proceed with an application and was advised to call. 
Mr S followed things up with Barclays, but was told that R wasnt eligible for a loan under the 
Scheme. Mr S challenged the decision by way of a complaint, but Barclays position 
remained the same. It said that certain checks had to be carried out before it could lend, and 
Rs application had been declined as it didnt meet the relevant requirements. 
Barclays subsequently closed Rs account.
Mr S doesnt think Barclays has acted fairly. He suspects the bank made an error when 
assessing Rs application, and confused it with another business of a similar name. He 
points to a letter received from Barclays which carries an incorrect spelling of his companys 
name. 
One of our investigators looked into things, but didnt think it should be upheld. She said:
Barclays internal records had the correct information about R, including its name and 
company number. So thered been no error in the application process.
Rs application had failed the checks that Barclays had conducted as required under 
the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Looking at the information Barclays 
reviewed when assessing the application, she thought the decision was reasonable.
Barclays had closed Rs account in line with the terms and conditions, which had 
included providing it with two months notice in order to make other arrangements.
Barclays accepted our investigators view, but Mr S didnt. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The Bounce Back Loan decision
Lenders are required to carry out certain checks on applications for a Bounce Back Loan, 
including fraud, anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks. Barclays says it 
declined Rs application because it failed those checks. Having looked at the information that 
Barclays took into account when assessing Rs application, I think its decision was 
reasonable.
Looking at the banks records, Im satisfied that Barclays reached its decision based on 
information relating to R  and that it was not down to any confusion with another company 
as Mr S has suggested. Barclays internal records show that it had correctly detailed Rs 
company name and other relevant information. And there is no reference to any other 
company with a similar name, or anything to suggest that information relating to another 
entity was mistakenly taken into consideration. 
I know Mr S also wanted Barclays to explain why it wouldnt accept Rs application, when he 
considers his company to have been eligible for the loan. But for the reasons Ive explained, 
the bank reasonably decided that R wasnt eligible  and its not required to share any more 
detail about the reasons for this than it already has. 
The account closure
Barclays was entitled to decide that it no longer wished to provide services to R, in much the 
same way that a customer can decide to close an account. 
The terms and conditions of Rs account allowed Barclays to close the account by giving at 
least two months notice. The bank did that here  it wrote to R on 9 December 2020 to 
explain its decision and said that the account would be closed on 8 February 2021. This 
gave R a reasonable period of time in which to make alternative arrangements.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in how it handled Rs 
application for a Bounce Back Loan or in closing Rs account. So Im not requiring it to do 
anything to settle this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman