DRN-3088794
The complaint 
Mrs T and Mr T have complained that between the late 1990s and 2009, TSB Bank plc mis-
sold them several packaged bank accounts. 
TSB charged Mrs T and Mr T monthly fees for the packaged accounts and provided several 
potential benefits in return. TSB has accepted that it made some errors and has paid Mrs T 
and Mr T some compensation. But, Mrs T and Mr T do not think the amount of compensation 
it paid is fair and want it to refund them some more money. 
What happened 
Mrs T and Mr T have banked with TSB for quite a long time. They have held accounts under 
two separate numbers. TSB has sent us a summary of these accounts from its records. The 
summary shows that:
they opened the first of the two accounts in 1994, as a fee-free account, 
by September 2001, TSB had sold them a Select packaged account, for which it 
charged a monthly fee,
in February 2006, they switched back to a fee-free account,
they closed this account in June 2013.
 
And: 
they opened the second of the two accounts in 1994, as a fee-free account, 
by September 2001, TSB had sold them a Select packaged account, for which it 
charged a monthly fee,
in February 2006, they switched back to a fee-free account,
in September 2009, TSB sold them a Silver packaged account, for which it charged a 
monthly fee.
 
This account history is not in dispute and I have taken it to be accurate. I understand that 
Mrs T and Mr T kept the Silver account until at least 2021, although Im not sure if they still 
have it. 
When Mrs T and Mr T complained to TSB, it accepted that it had mis-sold them both Select 
accounts and paid them some compensation. It didnt think it had mis-sold them the Silver 
account. 
Mrs T and Mr T dont think that TSB worked out the compensation for the Select accounts 
fairly. They also think it mis-sold them the Silver account. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint and thought that TSB had 
worked out the compensation for the Select accounts correctly, and did not consider that it 
had mis-sold the Silver account to Mrs T and Mr T. The adjudicator didnt recommend that 
TSB should give Mrs T and Mr T any more money back. 
Mrs T and Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mrs T and Mr 
Ts complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mrs T and Mr T and TSB have told us or 
sent us about the case, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
There are two distinct parts to Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint. The first is about the 
compensation TSB has paid for the Select accounts and the second is about the way it 
sold them the Silver account. I have considered these two parts separately. 
Compensation for the Select accounts 
As there is no dispute that TSB mis-sold these accounts to Mrs T and Mr T, I have not 
looked into the sales themselves. I have only considered whether the amount of 
compensation TSB paid was fair. 
When we uphold a complaint that a business mis-sold a packaged account to a 
consumer, we tell the business to put the consumer back into the financial position s/he 
would have been in it had never sold the account to him or her. This means that we 
usually tell the business to: 
refund the consumer each of the monthly fees s/he paid for the packaged account,
add simple interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year from 
the date the consumer paid the fee until the date the business makes the 
refund .
If the business can show that the consumer gained financially from any banking benefits 
that came with the packaged account (for example, some consumers get cheaper 
overdrafts with a packaged account), we usually allow the business to deduct the saving 
from the compensation worked out as above. 
I have seen an outline of the way TSB worked out the compensation for Mrs T and Mr T. 
Unfortunately, it does not know the exact dates it sold them the Select accounts as it 
doesnt have detailed records going back that far. Its records only show that it had sold 
them both Select accounts by September 2001 (I am not surprised that it does not have 
detailed records from earlier than that. Around twenty years have passed and it doesnt 
have to keep everything for that long). TSB first sold Select accounts in early 1997. So, in the absence of a firm date about when 
it sold the Select accounts to Mrs T and Mr T, it has worked out the compensation from 
May 1999. This was roughly halfway between the earliest date it sold Select accounts to 
anyone and the first date by which it knows Mrs T and Mr T had bought one. I think this is 
a reasonable date for TSB to have used. It then seems to have followed the calculation 
method I described above. 
So, it seems to me that TSB made a reasonable assumption about the date from which it 
should start the compensation and then worked things out fairly. I dont think it owes Mrs T 
and Mr T any more compensation for mis-selling them the Select accounts. 
The way TSB sold the Silver account to Mrs T and Mr T 
In 2009, TSB, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in two 
ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-advised) 
basis, or as an advised (or recommended) sale.
Both Mrs T and Mr T and TSB have told us that TSB recommended that they should buy the 
Silver account. To do this fairly, I would have expected it to give them a clear choice, tell 
them about the Silver accounts cost and benefits and check if they needed the benefits 
which the account could provide before making is recommendation.
In the years before TSB sold the Silver account to Mrs T and Mr T, they had held both fee-
free and packaged accounts. And for the three immediately preceding years, they had only 
held a fee-free account. I havent seen anything to make me think that TSB told them they 
couldnt keep that account. So, Im satisfied that TSB allowed them a choice. And Mrs T and 
Mr T seem to have accepted that it told them about the monthly fees. 
In 2009, the main potential benefits of the Silver account included insurance for travel and 
mobile phones and use of a car breakdown service. I think its highly likely that TSB told Mrs 
T and Mr T about these benefits. After all, it was trying to sell the Silver account to them and 
it was in its own interest to let them know what they could gain in return for their monthly 
fees. Furthermore, Mrs T and Mr T went on to use the car breakdown service on quite a few 
occasions. So, TSB must have told them about it.
TSB has also sent us a copy of an internal note it made at the time it sold the Silver account 
to Mrs T and Mr T. The note said, upgrade to a silver account for travel insurance. TSB has 
also pointed out that shortly after this, Mrs T and Mr T seem to have travelled abroad. I 
gather Mrs T and Mr T also had at least one mobile phone. So, it seems to me that Mrs T 
and Mr T had a potential need for at least some of the Silver accounts benefits. I think it was 
reasonable for TSB it recommend the Silver account to them. 
In discussions and correspondence with us, Mrs T and Mr T have told us that one of the 
main reasons for their complaint is that they think TSB misled them that buying the Silver 
account would be in their best interests for other reasons. They have told us that 
TSB said buying the Silver account would improve their credit score and so help them to get 
products such as mortgages and overdrafts. They now believe this was wrong. 
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Mrs T and Mr Ts current belief is correct. Its extremely 
unlikely that buying the Silver account would have had any impact on their credit score. If 
TSB had told them otherwise, it would have been a significant failing. 
I accept that Mrs T and Mr T are doing their best to remember what happened back in 2009, 
but I doubt that TSB misled them about credit scores in the way they have described. They seem to have overdrawn their account quite frequently. Irrespective of the type of account 
they held, staying within any agreed limit could have had a positive effect on their credit 
score. I think its highly likely that TSB may well have discussed this with them when it sold 
them the Silver account. But as this was true, it wouldnt have been misleading. It wouldnt 
have been a failing.
So, in summary, Im satisfied that TSB gave Mrs T and Mr T a choice about the Silver 
account and told them about its cost and benefits. I also think TSB behaved reasonably in 
recommending the account to them. And I doubt it misled them about their credit score. I 
dont think that TSB mis-sold the Silver account to Mrs T and Mr T. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint about 
TSB Bank plc. I am not going to tell it to give them any more money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman