DRN-4053040
The complaint
Mr R complains about Wakams handling of his claim following the loss of his car keys, 
under his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
In November 2021 Mr R lost his car keys. He contacted his insurance broker on 18 
November and was advised to contact Wakam, the underwriter for his insurance policy, 
directly. Mr R says he spent a long time on hold waiting to get through to an adviser. When 
he did get through, no help was given, and he was passed to various different agents 
partnered to Wakam. 
Mr R says he spent over 60 hours on the phone over the next few days trying to speak to 
Wakam. He says his car was eventually recovered at 9pm on 22 November 2021, four days 
after he first reported his loss. 
In the time he was waiting for his claim to be dealt with, Mr R says his car was broken into 
and some items were stolen. He says he wasnt able to go anywhere, including visiting his 
children without using a bus or taxi, which has cost him over £70. He also says this has been 
very stressful resulting in difficulty sleeping and has meant he missed an important meeting. 
Mr R complained to his broker and his complaint was forwarded onto Wakam. It didnt 
provide a response, so he contacted our service. We contacted Wakam but received no 
response either. Our investigator reviewed Mr Rs complaint based on the information 
available. He didnt think Wakam had treated him fairly. He says the claim shouldve been 
handled quicker. Because it didnt this caused Mr R inconvenience and the loss of use of his 
car. Our investigator says Wakam should pay Mr R £250 compensation to put this right. 
Mr R accepted this outcome, but Wakam didnt respond. As an agreement wasnt reached 
the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read Mr Rs policy terms. The following excerpt is of relevance here:
The insurer will pay for all the locks to be replaced if one or more is damaged. If car keys, 
lock transmitters or entry cards are lost or stolen, the insurer will pay for replacement locks 
and keys  unless they were left unattended in or on your car.
Mr Rs policy provides cover should he lose his car keys. This is what happened here and 
Wakam has covered the cost of replacing the locks and keys. There is no dispute that Mr Rs 
loss was covered. But based on his testimony he had a poor experience registering his 
claim. In addition, it took several days before his car was recovered and for the locks to be 
changed. My consideration of Mr Rs complaint centres on these points. 
Wakam hasnt provided any records or information for me to consider. So, I have based my 
decision on the testimony Mr R provided. I have no reason to doubt his account of what 
happened. I can understand that it must have been extremely inconvenient for Mr R to be 
without a car as a result of losing his car keys. This situation was made more stressful by the 
poor standard of service he received when contacting Wakam. 
I note Mr Rs comments that he made numerous phone calls and was kept on hold for long 
periods. He also refers to being spoken to rudely by Wakams agents. We expect Wakam to 
handle claims fairly and effectively. It shouldnt have been left to Mr R to make multiple calls 
and be kept on hold for many hours to progress his claim. Based on Mr Rs testimony I think 
its clear the claim was handled poorly. This resulted in a delay over a number of days and 
caused him inconvenience and frustration. 
I can see that Mr Rs policy provides for a temporary replacement vehicle where Wakams 
approved repairer is used. I cant see that Mr R was offered this service whilst his locks were 
being changed, which he also confirms. 
Ive thought about Mr Rs comments that because he was unable to lock his car, a number of 
items were stolen from it. He says he reported this to the police. The stolen items include a 
laptop, sports equipment, a silver platinum chain, a blue-tooth headset, trainers, two books, 
and his V5 logbook and papers. I asked Mr R why his car wasnt left secured prior to him 
losing his keys. He says hed mistakenly left it unlocked. 
Im sorry Mr R had items stolen from his car. But he was aware that he couldnt lock his car 
until the locks were changed. In these circumstances Id expect a reasonable person to 
mitigate the risk of theft by removing any items that were left in the car. Had he done this it 
wouldnt have been possible for these items to have been stolen.
Having considered all this, I dont think Wakam treated Mr R fairly when dealing with his 
claim. As a result, Wakam should compensate him for the loss of use of his car, the 
additional travel costs he incurred and for the distress and inconvenience this caused. In 
these circumstances I agree with our investigator that £250 compensation is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Wakam should:
pay Mr R £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman