DRN-1888437
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1994 Mr S took out a credit card by postal application. PPI wasnt taken at this stage  Mr 
S took it out around 8 months later in 1995 during a phone call. 
The policy provided protection for Mr S card payments in the event he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy cost 69 pence for every £100 Mr 
S owed on the card and the payments did attract interest. It would pay out a benefit of 10% 
of the outstanding card balance and would do so for up to 12 months per claim.
At the time of the sale Mr S was employed full time. According to Barclays, Mr S told them 
he was entitled to sick pay of six months full pay followed by six months half pay. Mr S told 
us that he felt put on the spot and led by the conversation at the time  he told us he 
remembers his sick entitlement was 12 months full pay. I will expand on this later on. Mr S 
said he had a healthy bank balance and so had savings he couldve used to make his 
repayments and he was in good health at the time.
Barclays records show the credit card account ended in 2005.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they said 
because Mr S took out the policy some time after he took out the credit card, Mr S ought 
reasonably to have understood it was a separate and optional product. They also said there 
was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Because Mr S disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr S complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mr S was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr S have a choice about PPI?
 
As I said above, Mr S didnt take out PPI when he applied for the card by postal application  
he took it out later on during a phone call. Therefore, Mr S had being using his credit card 
account without PPI for some time before he added it to his account. 
Mr S says he remembers he was made to feel special during the phone call and felt coerced 
into buying it. But given what Ive said above about the period in which Mr S was able to use 
his account without PPI, together with the limited supporting evidence about an event which 
happened many years ago (Barclays hasnt got a call recording or call script for example) I 
cant fairly uphold this complaint on the basis that Barclays went beyond simply encouraging 
him to take it out and it pressured him to do so.
Mr S also complains that Barclays didnt tell him that he could get PPI from another provider. 
I will discuss Barclays duty when it sold PPI to Mr S further below  but it did not extend to 
telling him that PPI was available from other providers elsewhere.
the advice
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr S. This means Barclays had to check that the 
PPI was right for Mr S  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example, he was eligible for the cover; he wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those for existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment circumstances; and despite his existing means I think it wouldve 
proved useful to him if something went wrong  I still think he had some need for the cover.
Mr S appears to have given different information about his sick pay entitlement at different 
times. Hes also given different dates for his promotion when he says his sick pay increased. 
But this isnt surprising given hes trying to remember things from 25 years ago or so. Most 
recently Mr S says he remembers he wouldve received 12 months full sick pay  he says it 
went up when he was promoted in 1995.
Notwithstanding Mr S promotion to a senior position in his firm and the comprehensive 
benefits that came with it, it nevertheless strikes me as unusual for an employer  even in 
the 1990s - to offer full sick pay for this length of time. In my experience, even those 
employers offering generous sick pay terms beyond six months, typically reduce the rate of 
sick pay at some point before 12 months.
Its also not entirely clear to me when Mr S was promoted and therefore when he says his 
sick pay entitlement increased. Mr S says it was in 1995  hes also indicated it may have 
been earlier  because thats when he qualified for private medical insurance as shown on 
his Inland Revenue tax coding notice. But the medical insurance paperwork Mr S provided 
us with at the start of his complaint, shows an insurance commencement date of 1996  so 
its possible his promotion and subsequent enhanced sick pay came later on and after the 
PPI started.
But in any event and looking at Mr S wider circumstances - it seems to me that any savings 
Mr S had at the time were earmarked for a deposit on a house purchase he was about to 
take out a mortgage for. Given this and considering the cost and benefit proposition offered 
by the policy  it had the potential to clear any outstanding balance in full and at a cost which 
in my view wasnt high at the time  I think the policy could still have proved useful to Mr S 
had the insured risks become an unfortunate reality. Mr S might have had private medical 
insurance through work at the time, but this isnt comparable with PPI  private medical 
insurance wouldve covered any medical expenses while PPI wouldve covered Mr S card 
payments in the event the insured risks occurred.
So, taking everything into account I dont think it was wrong for Barclays to have 
recommended PPI to Mr S.
the information  In addition to ensuring the cover was suitable for Mr S, Barclays also had to give Mr S 
enough clear and timely information about the policy so he could decide whether to go 
ahead with the recommended cover or not. Given the limited available evidence, I accept its 
possible the information Barclays gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mr S says he wasnt told about the limitations and exclusions of cover.
But as I found above, I think he chose to take it out. And Im not persuaded Mr S wouldve 
gone ahead without a broad understanding of what the cover did - so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. And as I said above, based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't 
appear that it was inappropriate for him (I also said he wasnt affected by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover) - so it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have likely put Mr S off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While Barclays might not have done all that it should fairly and reasonably have done when 
it sold Mr S PPI, in light of his circumstances at the time I think the policy was nevertheless 
ultimately suitable for him. And because it wasn't wrong for him, I don't think better 
information from Barclays would've put him off taking it out.
This means I dont think Mr S has lost out as a result of having PPI, so Barclays doesn't   
have to pay back to Mr S what he paid for PPI.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr S has said  I can see hes spent time and energy 
in putting his points and recollections across, which Im grateful for. But these points dont 
change my decision. For the reasons I've set out above, I don't uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman