The complaint
Mr F and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc didnt set up a standing order correctly or 
tell Mr F there was a problem with it. As a result payments werent made to his 
granddaughter's junior ISA account. 
What happened
The account is held in joint names with Mrs F but due to ill health Mr F and his daughter Mrs 
M have power of attorney. So, although Mrs M is party to the complaint for ease I will refer to 
Mr F throughout.
In February 2018 Mr F attended his local branch to set up a standing order to pay £50 a 
month from his account into his granddaughters junior ISA account. Mr F recently discovered 
the standing order had been failing. Mr F is unhappy that the ISA is now approximately £900 
short and won't achieve the level of interest he was expecting at the end of its term. 
Mr F would like Santander to compensate him for the interest his granddaughter has 
potentially lost out on. 
Santander has said when the standing order was set up there was a missing reference 
within the instruction, which meant the payment wasn't able to go through each month. 
They've apologised for this but given the length of time that has passed it's not possible for it 
to say if this was due to an error of the agent setting it up or if the reference wasn't 
presented by Mr F at the time the standing order was set up. 
Santander has said Mr F was informed by way of his monthly statement that the payment 
was leaving the account and then being returned to his account. 
Santander has since set up a new standing order for future payments. And It offered £50 as 
a goodwill gesture and an apology for any trouble and upset caused.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He felt Santander had done enough and said 
Mr F also had a responsibility to manage his account by regularly checking his statements.
Mr F didn't agree. He said he has made other payments into his granddaughter's account 
using the same account details and those payments had gone through with no problems. He 
explained his wife is terminally ill, so he has enough to worry about without having to keep 
checking what Santander has done. And as for checking his own statements he only looks at 
the bottom figure to make sure he's not overdrawn. 
Because Mr F didn't agree he has asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
DRN-1094697What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, in this case there is no way to be sure how the error occurred with the 
reference number not being completed on the mandate when setting up the standing order. 
Mr F told Santander that due to the passage of time he couldn't remember what details he 
provided it back in 2018. Santander has said its agent at the branch would've asked Mr F to 
check the details it entered. But as a gesture of goodwill it accepted an error was made and 
offered £50 compensation.
I understand Mr F feels Santander should've informed him of the failing standing order. I can 
see it did this by way of the monthly statements. Although I understand that sending a letter 
or calling Mr F would've been good customer service it isn't obliged to do this. I'm sorry to 
hear about Mrs F's ill health and I can understand that checking bank statements may not be 
Mr F's priority in the circumstances. However, customers have a responsibility to manage 
their accounts. If Mr F had checked his account statements or checked with his 
granddaughter or her guardians if the payments were being received, the error could've 
been rectified much earlier. 
I understand Mr F feels Santander should compensate him for the interest that 
has potentially been lost in his granddaughter's ISA account. I can see when Mr F made his 
complaint, Santander did offer to arrange for the £900 to be paid from Mr F's account to the 
ISA account. This would've brought the balance back up albeit it may still have affected the 
interest payment. But Mr F declined to do so at that time.
I have carefully considered all of Mr F's points but because it's not clear how the initial error 
happened, Mr F was informed by way of his statements and Mr F hasn't actually suffered a 
financial loss  I don't think Santander needs to anything more. If there was a loss of 
interest in the ISA account it would be his granddaughter's loss not Mr F's. The financial loss 
to someone else is not a loss I have the power to deal with. I know it will disappoint Mr F, but 
for the reasons I've given above I won't be instructing Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2020.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman