DRN-4480570
The complaint
Ms A has complained that, due to errors made by Saga Services Limited (Saga), she was 
left without home insurance cover.
What happened
Ms As daughters partner phoned Saga to set-up a policy for Ms A as she was due to move 
into a property and needed insurance cover in place that day. Saga arranged the policy and 
took payment. A few hours later, Ms As son spoke to Saga as the email hadnt been 
received to show the policy had been set-up. Saga found that there was an incorrect 
character in the email address the policy details had been sent to.
Ms As son phoned Saga again a short time later and during that conversation explained that 
his mother was moving in under licence as the property was going through probate. Ms As 
son checked if this was the right type of policy and was told it was. Shortly after this, Saga 
phoned Ms As daughter and said it was unable to offer cover, as the property was under 
probate. It cancelled the policy and refunded the premium.
Ms As son complained. He said that because of the mistakes made by Saga it had cost Ms 
A a lot of money, as she had to stay in a care home for longer and pay the costs for doing 
so, as well as being caused inconvenience. Saga offered Ms A £115 compensation. Ms As 
son later explained the complaint in more detail. So, Saga sent a further response. It said it 
didnt agree it should have asked questions about probate when the policy was first set up or 
that it was responsible for Ms A staying in a care home for a month longer. Saga offered a 
further £150 as a gesture of goodwill because a call handler incorrectly noted the email 
address and because the complaint was marked as closed while it was still ongoing. 
So, Ms As son complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said Saga shouldnt have cancelled the policy as Ms As son-in-law had answered the 
questions accurately, so no misrepresentation had taken place and Saga couldnt take 
action. However, as Ms A now had alternative cover, Saga didnt need to reinstate the 
policy. Ms A and her family also didnt do anything to mitigate the impact of the cancellation. 
Alternative cover could have been arranged the same day or shortly after. He said the 
compensation already offered was fair to reflect the impact on Ms A of the policy 
cancellation, the impact on moving in and the poor service provided.
As Ms A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 1 November 2023. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I wasnt planning to require Saga to do anything further in relation 
to this complaint. I said:
Ms As daughters partner spoke to Saga initially. Saga asked whether he had power of 
attorney. He confirmed his partner did. He said Ms A was purchasing the property and 
because power of attorney hadnt come through she was going into the property under 
licence. It is my understanding that power of attorney and probate are separate matters. I 
didnt hear the partner refer to probate during the call. I also wouldnt expect an insurer to 
ask questions around probate unless it thought it had reason to do so. Saga asked its 
standard questions when it arranged a new policy and then set it up. I think that was 
reasonable. 
However, during the call, the partner provided his and Ms As daughters email address to 
send the policy details to. The call handler mistyped a character in Ms As daughters email 
address. It is my understanding that the partner might have received the policy email. But Ms 
As daughter didnt receive it until a follow-up call was made a few hours later to find out why 
the email hadnt arrived. The email address was then corrected and the email was sent 
again. 
Ms As son then spoke to Saga about getting access to the policy documents. He told Saga 
the property was subject to probate but that his mother was moving in under licence. He 
queried whether this was the right type of policy and Saga confirmed it was. However, after 
the call ended, the call handler spoke to a manager and found that Saga didnt offer cover 
where a property was still under probate. The call handler then phoned Ms As daughter to 
explain this. By now it was about 1.30pm the same day the policy was initially taken out. Ms 
As daughter questioned whether it was right that cover couldnt be provided. The call 
handler checked again with a manager and confirmed that cover couldnt be provided. She 
told Ms As daughter that although Saga couldnt offer cover, other companies might be able 
to do so. While Ms As daughter remained on the call, Saga cancelled the policy and 
refunded the premium paid.
To be clear, from what I heard in the call, Saga didnt cancel the policy under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and the considerations under 
that dont apply here. Ms As son explained the property was under probate. Following this 
Saga established it couldnt offer cover. It then promptly told Ms As daughter cover couldnt 
be provided and cancelled the policy under the 14-day cooling off period, which would 
normally be when a policyholder cancelled the policy. The policy wasnt valid, so it needed to 
be cancelled or else Saga would have been allowing a policy to continue, and taking 
payment for it, when it knew it couldnt offer cover. Saga told Ms As daughter the position 
and, in my view, took a pragmatic approach to cancelling the policy and refunding the money 
paid. I consider that Saga acted reasonably by cancelling the policy in the way that it did 
when it realised it couldnt provide cover.
Ms As son has said Sagas action meant Ms A had to stay in a care home for a month 
longer and cost her about £3,000. Things like removals also had to be cancelled at short 
notice. He said that because the policy details had been sent to the wrong email address, a 
morning had been lost when everything had to be completed and signed off that day. He 
said his solicitors were on lunch 1-2pm and were on phone calls with other clients after that 
and he wanted to speak to them to decide what to do about the unexpected cancellation. He 
also questioned why he or his family would call around other insurance providers when they 
were tired and exhausted. He also explained the care home fees had to be paid on the first 
day of each month.
So, Ive thought about this. I can understand Ms As family might have wanted to speak to 
the solicitor to discuss the position. I can also see this was a tiring and difficult time for Ms A 
and her family. The conversations with Saga took place about a week before the next care 
home fees were due. I understand Ms A obtained a policy from another insurer about a week 
later. I havent seen anything that currently persuades me Sagas actions prevented Ms As 
family from trying to find insurance elsewhere the same day or soon after, despite the time 
that had passed that morning before Saga cancelled the policy. I think the compensation 
Saga offered fairly reflected the issues with the email address and the customer service 
issues Saga later noted, such as the complaint being closed due to confusion within Saga. 
As a result, I dont currently intend to require Saga to do anything further.I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 29 November 2023. Both parties responded before that date.
Saga confirmed it had nothing further to add.
Ms As son replied and, in summary, said:
There were large amounts of his previous communications that seemed to get omitted.
The complaint wasnt just about his mum but about the inefficiency of Saga that day i.e. 
the email error and setting up the policy and then cancelling it five hours later. The family 
lost all their time to do anything else that day.
He had to call the removals company to cancel at short notice, which affected their 
business and logistics for other customers it could have been working for instead.
The compensation cheque was sent to the property address before Ms A had moved 
there or was the legal owner of the property. He also referred to another letter send to 
that address.
I had said Ms A was going to exchange on the property that day. This was incorrect. 
Only the licence agreement was going to be signed off.
He described the solicitors availability and their work schedule, as they were both back 
from holiday. He said his mum wanted to move out of the care home as soon as 
possible. He described how unwell his mum was and that she nearly died in the care 
home and a range of medical-related issue, which was why the family wanted her to 
move out of the care home.
The care home fees were due to rise.
He was shocked there was no mention of his mums health in my provisional decision, 
which he was sure he had previously mentioned.
It was by complete luck that probate came through a few weeks later and his mum was 
able to move into the property. Her health then improved.
How unusual it was for there to be an opportunity to move in under licence. He explained 
how this had come about.
Due to the solicitors availability, the family had to do three things in one day. First was to 
transfer the licence fee payment. Ms As son described the journey he took to do this and 
that he had to take a day off work to do so. Second was to get the licence agreement 
signed and third was to get insurance cover.
It was highly disrespectful to say Ms As family, after so many hours of drama and errors 
by Saga that day, were just going to call other providers. The family were all shattered 
and frustrated and felt ill themselves for two days after. He explained where he lived, 
where his sister and mum lived and the location of the solicitor. 
Saga made a mistake with the email, which it had said would be received within 30 
minutes and then at lunchtime. The solicitors had lunchtime meetings and phone calls 
with other clients.
He had asked Saga why it hadnt asked if the property was under probate as one of their 
routine questions, especially as they have a bereavement department. He thought this 
was a loophole/ gap in the insurance sector and that he was giving valuable feedback. 
Sagas response was defensive and didnt agree or take his advice on board. He said 
Saga might have thought that if it agreed, it might open it up to a claim.
He didnt think I understood how the familys time was lost due to Sagas inefficiencies 
and the mental blow it had been for them. He described the mental impact on him 
personally. He also explained having to wait somewhere all day and that his sister and 
her partner also wasted the whole day, as well as the solicitors time as they drafted the 
licence agreement. Legal fees had to be paid for this. The removal company also lost a 
job.Saga also mistakenly marked the complaint closed while it was still ongoing. He queried 
why this was.
The annual premium was paid and they then had to wait for a refund.
He questioned why Saga has phoned his sister first and not him, as he was the last 
caller and had mentioned probate, which seemed to change everything.
Why was he told everything was ok with the policy and then his sister was phoned to say 
it had been cancelled
Due to the lost time that day, the licence agreement couldnt be signed off. The removal 
slot was lost. Ms As items were in storage. Ms A had to stay in a care home longer and 
pay fees for this. Ms A was lucky to get probate later that month. She moved out of the 
care home and was able to get a pro-rata refund. Ms As son explained the additional 
costs.
The amount of compensation Saga offered was the lowest level it paid. Ms As son had 
asked for a breakdown of the compensation figure, but Saga hadnt been able to provide 
this, so it just seemed to have made up the figure.
There was also the time he had spent providing explanations to this service. He 
expected Saga had done nothing further.
It had taken a lot of time for him and his sister to sort out their mums house after their 
father had died, as well as dealing with solicitors and sorting out paperwork.
Sagas compensation definitely wasnt enough and seemed a disrespectful amount 
considering the full impact on the family during a time when Ms A nearly died. He 
thought Saga could have offered at least another £700 in addition to what it had paid 
before.
He said he fully expected to receive the wrong outcome. Depending on the final 
outcome, he would consider legal action against Saga and this service.
It might be an idea for me to phone him before making my final decision to ensure there 
were no missed facts.
Ms As son sent a further response which, in summary, said:
There was a major error in my provisional decision that he considered significant. My 
provisional decision had said that I understood Ms A now had alternative cover. This was 
totally incorrect and untrue and he couldnt understand where this had come from.
When Saga cancelled the policy, the family were too exhausted, frustrated, annoyed and 
feeling ill. It was getting too late in the day to start making phone calls. The family had 
already put in a lot of effort that day and Ms A was nearly dying from feeling unwell at the 
time. He said I was welcome to call the care home.
The email error meant the morning had gone. The policy was cancelled at lunchtime and 
the solicitors had meetings and phone calls with other clients after lunch. It wasnt just 
about looking at Sagas timings but also those of others involved. This included when it 
was practical for Ms As family to contact the solicitor that afternoon, who would then 
need to speak to the vendors solicitor to discuss next steps and get back to Ms As 
family.
It was only when probate was granted that the house purchase proceeded later that 
month and it was possible to get insurance with another provider.
They would never use Saga again.
For Saga not to agree with him that it should ask future customers if a property was in 
probate was just unbelievable and ridiculous.
Saga used up all the familys time that day. On that day he had planned to get three 
things done, which they had all agreed were manageable. The solicitor had been clear 
on what needed to be done.
They should be compensated at least £700, up to a maximum of another £2,500. I 
needed to look at the actual figures and also the inconvenience and distress caused and the time wasted for the whole family, the vendor, both sets of solicitors and the removal 
company. It was important to look at the whole picture.
Solicitors were very busy with other clients and they were both around that day to get 
everything done. Removals were booked in for a precise day. He hoped I would look at 
all the common sense, practicalities, logistics, notice needed and the efforts of moving 
his mum out of a care home. It was a big job with a lot of planning and effort.
Saga even sent the cheque to the property address before Ms A moved there. 
Fortunately, she was able to move in. When he drove his mum to the property, the 
cheque was there. Saga later admitted to this error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of that, Ive carefully considered the details of this complaint again, including all the 
points raised by Ms As son. I can confirm that before I made my provisional decision I 
looked at and thought about everything Ms As son had said, even if I didnt comment on it. I 
focussed on what I considered to be the key issues in order to make a fair and reasonable 
decision. That remains my approach.
I was aware of Ms As health issues and the impact on her. I didnt intend any disrespect by 
not commenting on this in my provisional decision. I didnt think it was appropriate to discuss 
someones health in any detail, as I was aware that my decision would be published. This is 
also why I havent included all of the details in my summary of what Ms As son said in 
response to my provisional decision. However, I was genuinely sorry to learn of Ms As 
circumstances and the significant concerns around her health.
Ive also looked again at my decision. I was aware that a licence agreement was being put in 
place. When Ms As daughters partner spoke to Saga, he said Ms A was exchanging that 
day. When Saga spoke to Ms As daughter later that day to cancel the policy, she also said 
Ms A was exchanging that day. Im grateful to Ms As son for correcting what I said in my 
decision to ensure it is as accurate as possible. However, this doesnt affect my decision.
Ms As son was also concerned that I had made a significant error by referring to alternative 
cover. Looking at my provisional decision, the wording appears to be in the part where I 
summarised what our investigator had said. I wasnt saying alternative cover was in place 
the same day as the phone call with Saga and I can confirm that wasnt what I thought when 
I made my provisional decision. 
I also note Ms As son commented that Saga said the email would be sent within 30 minutes 
of the phone call to set up the policy. I listened again to the initial phone call, Saga told Ms 
As daughters partner the email would be sent within an hour and a half to two hours, 
although often quicker. The call handler checked the system and confirmed it was being 
prepared. 
Ms As son was also concerned that when the policy was cancelled, Saga phoned Ms As 
daughter rather than him. I listened to a voicemail message in which Saga asked Ms As son 
to call back urgently about the policy. Saga said it would also try calling other numbers. Its 
my understanding this was to tell him the policy had been cancelled. Saga then called Ms 
As daughter about the policy cancellation. However, even if my understanding is incorrect 
about the purpose and timing of the voicemail, I still think it was reasonable for Saga to have 
called Ms As daughter. She was someone Saga was authorised to speak to under the policy 
and it was her card that had been used to pay for the policy and would therefore be 
refunded.I was also aware of the impact Ms As son had described on Ms As family, the solicitors and 
the removals firm. I didnt comment on this in any detail in my provisional decision because I 
was aware that our investigator had clarified with Ms As son that this service is unable to 
award compensation to people who arent policyholders. Ms As son confirmed he knew 
compensation wasnt for other members of the family and they were complaining for their 
mum as she wasnt able to do so. In response to my provisional decision, Ms As son has, 
again, described in detail the impact on family members, the solicitors and others. For 
avoidance of doubt, Im aware of all the points raised and the wider context of what 
happened. I cant award compensation to family members who arent named on the policy, 
solicitors or other people or companies involved in a house move. However, this doesnt 
mean that Ive ignored the points raised.
As I previously said, Saga wasnt required to ask a question about probate. Im aware Ms As 
son wants Saga to ask other customers a question about this in future. However, my role is 
to look at individual complaints. I cant require Saga to change what is asks other customers.
I was aware that Saga had closed the complaint while it was ongoing and that it sent the 
cheque to the property. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. However, I did take this 
into account as part of thinking about Ms A and her familys dissatisfaction with Saga and as 
context.
From what Ive seen, Saga set up a policy based on the information provided. It accepted it 
made an error with the email address. When Ms As son spoke to Saga later that day and 
explained the property was in probate, Saga initially said the policy was suitable. However, 
after the call ended, the call handler checked whether this was correct and promptly took 
action to make Ms As family aware the policy wasnt suitable. It cancelled the policy and 
refunded the money. In my view, Saga took reasonable action. This remains my view looking 
at it in the context of everything Ms As son described.
Im also aware of the significant level of compensation Ms As son has said should be paid. 
Ive thought again about what happened, Ive checked records, relistened to phone calls and 
thought about my overall findings. I remain of the view that the compensation Saga offered 
fairly reflected the issues with the email address and the customer service issues. This 
doesnt mean Im ignoring the circumstances described. However, I remain of the view that 
what Saga offered as compensation was fair in the circumstances. As a result, I dont require 
Saga to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Saga Services Limited doesnt need to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman