DRN-3568085
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) (Halifax) made an entry about 
him on the National Hunter database in connection with a mortgage application.
What happened
Mr A applied for a re-mortgage with Halifax in 2019. He wanted to borrow more money and 
take out a new interest rate product. In December 2019 Halifax declined the application and 
left a fraud marker on the National Hunter database. The National Hunter database is a 
cross-industry fraud prevention database which allows financial services providers to share 
relevant information, subject to safeguards.
Mr A says he didnt know that the marker had been applied until hed been turned down for 
mortgages with other lenders and a broker advised him to check his National Hunter report 
in March 2021. At that point he realised that Halifax had recorded an inconsistency marker in 
relation to the declined re-mortgage application.
Initially Halifax said it hadnt done anything wrong, but after Mr A complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service it agreed to remove the marker in November 2021. Mr A wants 
compensation for what happened. He says the matter has affected his mental health and he 
lost out financially as a result of what happened. Mr A also wants to know why Halifax 
applied the marker in the first place. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. She said Halifax applied the marker because it 
thought there were inconsistencies between the annual income Mr A had stated on his 
mortgage application and the information Mr A provided to demonstrate his income. She 
also said that Halifax had concerns about whether Mr A was living at the relevant property 
when he applied for the mortgage. 
Mr A was unhappy with what our investigator said. He said hed been honest about his 
income and asked our investigator to listen to the phone call in which he applied for the 
mortgage. After she listened to the relevant call our investigator accepted that following a 
discussion with Halifax Mr As income was determined to be £55,000 - not £29,150 as shed 
stated. She contacted Halifax and it confirmed it used a figure of £55,000 as part of its 
underwriting process. 
However, our investigator felt that there were still some inconsistencies in the information 
Halifax considered as part of the 2019 mortgage application. So while she appreciated that 
Halifax had changed its mind and removed the marker, she didnt think it would be fair and 
reasonable to require it to compensate Mr A for what happened. She said that when Halifax 
considered Mr As mortgage application it checked the electoral record for the relevant 
property. It found that other people (not Mr A) were registered to vote at that address. She 
could also see that in January 2020 Mr A applied for consent to let the property. Halifax 
agreed to do that for a 12-month period, and later for an additional 12-month period.
Our investigator said that Mr As mortgage application was submitted on the basis that he 
was living in the property and would continue to do so during the term of the mortgage. She 
said that if Mr A was letting out his property when he applied for the mortgage he was in 
breach of the terms and conditions of his existing mortgage and should have declared his 
intention to let the property in his mortgage application.
Mr A remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. He said that Halifax made assumptions about him letting 
out the property. He didnt say that his property wasnt being let out when he applied for the 
mortgage.
For completeness I will say here that Mr A has told us that he decided that he didnt want to 
bank with Halifax after what happened, so he moved his mortgage. He had to pay a £2,600 
fee when he did that and wants to be reimbursed for it. As that is a new issue I will not 
consider that issue in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When Mr A applied for the re-mortgage in 2019 Halifax considered the information and 
evidence it received in connection with mortgage application and carried out underwriting 
checks to try to confirm the accuracy of what it was told and to decide whether it wanted to 
lend. I think its worth saying here that there was no obligation on Halifax to lend money to 
Mr A. It wasnt obliged to give reasons for a refusing to do so either. 
When making a referral to the National Hunter database, Halifax had to have reasonable 
grounds for doing so. It didnt have to disclose the detail of those reasons to Mr A.
Having considered everything that has been said and provided in this complaint I think 
Halifax had reasonable concerns about the information it was given as part of the mortgage 
application following the checks it carried out. Although Mr A had applied for the mortgage 
on the basis that he was living at the property and was intending to do so in the future, 
Halifax had concerns that he had already let the property out after it checked the electoral 
register for the relevant property and found out that other people were registered to vote 
there.
Having considered the checks Halifax carried out as part of its underwriting process, I dont 
think its concerns were unreasonable. So, I cant say it acted unreasonably in recording the 
marker on the National Hunter database. 
I appreciate that Halifax agreed to remove the marker after Mr A complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. So I understand why Mr A thinks this means that Halifax was wrong to 
put the marker on the database in the first place. But I dont think thats right for the reasons 
set out above. I appreciate what Mr A has told us that the impact of the marker on him and 
his strength of feeling about this matter. However, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably in 
recording entries on the National Hunter database, so it follows that I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to require Halifax to compensate Mr A for what happened. 
Mr A has said that he has been turned down for other mortgages because of the marker. I 
think its helpful for me to say here that lenders shouldnt generally reject applications 
automatically on the basis of the markers in question. Instead they should instead make their 
own enquiries. Mr A may be able to take up any concerns he has with the lenders he has 
applied to if hes unhappy with how they have treated him.I recognise that this decision is likely be disappointing for Mr A. But based on what Ive seen, 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require Halifax to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman