DRN-3182340
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Littlewoods hasnt 
credited his account for items he returned.
What happened
Mr M ordered a computer from Shop Direct. When it arrived, he decided he didnt need it so 
he arranged for it to be returned online.
Mr M says that the computer was collected from his house but that he wasnt given proof of 
return. Shop Direct says it has no record of a return and requested payment from Mr M. 
Mr M doesnt think its fair that he should have to pay for something hes returned. He 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he hadnt seen enough evidence that 
the item had been collected and returned.
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed contacted Shop Direct to arrange the return and that it had 
been collected from his house by a courier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Ms account and I can see that he ordered a computer from Shop Direct on 
17 May 2021. The computer was delivered to Mr M on 19 May 2021.
The nub of this complaint is that Mr M says he returned the computer but Shop Direct has no 
record of receiving it and hasnt credited Mr Ms account.
Mr Ms account records show that he logged onto his online account on 24 May 2021 and 
printed a collect plus label. Im unbale to see any item description on the returns page so I 
cant be certain whether this return related to the computer or another item. I can see that Mr 
M accessed the returns page on his online account 11 June and 18n June but didnt 
complete the process.
Mr M says that the computer was collected from his house by a courier on 29 June 2021. He 
also says he arranged the courier collection by telephoning Shop Direct on 28 June 2021.
Shop Direct has told this service that it has no record of arranging a home collection with Mr 
M. it has also told this service that it doesnt use the courier company named by Mr m as the 
courtier who collected the computer from him.
Shop Direct has provided this service with a call recording dated 18 June 2021 in which Mr 
M stated that he returned the computer several weeks ago. Mr M also said during the call 
that he returned the computer via the online return process on 22 or 23 May 2021.
Theres clearly some confusion about dates here, because Mr M told this service that he 
arranged the return on 28 June 2021 and that the item was collected the following day. This 
is at odds with what Mr M said to Shop Direct in the call dated 18 June 2021.
Shop Direct has told this service that it has checked its records and that no collections were 
made from Mr Ms address between 23 May 2021 and 5 August 2021.
Aside from the confusion over the date of the return, the difficulty here is that Mr M hasnt got 
any proof that he returned the computer. The problem is compounded by the fact that Mr M 
is certain that he returned the computer with a courier who hes named, but this courier 
doesnt carry out collections for Shop Direct.
I cant be certain of exactly what has happened here. But taking all of the available 
information into account, there isnt enough evidence to show that the computer was 
returned. Because of this, Im unable to say that Mr Ms account should be credited.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman