DRN-3150061
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt with 
a request for a payment deferral due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
Mrs B is being represented in this complaint by Mr B. For ease of reference, Ill refer to them 
both as Mrs B.
What happened
In March 2019, Mrs B was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. Mrs B paid an advance payment of £3,500, and the agreement was for £27,389.60 
over 48 months; with 47 monthly payments of £398.69, and a final optional payment of 
£12,257.10 if Mrs B wanted to purchase the car at the end of the agreement.
In April 2020, as a result of her income being affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) 
pandemic, Mrs B asked VWFS for a 3-month payment deferral. Mrs B says that she thought 
the deferral had been granted, but she started to receive arrears letters from VWFS.
Mrs B spoke to VWFS on 17 July 2020 to discuss the situation. VWFS apologised for what 
had happened and offered Mrs B £50 compensation. In an email dated 27 July 2020, VWFS 
confirmed to Mrs B that they would be removing all arrears from her account. But VWFS 
didnt amend Mrs Bs credit file until 30 December 2020. And they offered her an additional 
£250 compensation for this delay.
Mrs B wasnt happy with this, and she said she had a mortgage application initially declined 
(but accepted on appeal) because of what VWFS had put on her credit file. So, she brought 
her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that VWFS had acknowledged their communication around the 
payment deferral wasnt acceptable. And he said that VWFS didnt update Mrs Bs credit file 
in a timely manner, which caused her unnecessary stress during her mortgage application 
process. But he thought that the additional £250 VWFS had offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances. And he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. She didnt think that the £250 offer was sufficient. 
And she sent in an email from her mortgage broker to show that the mortgage was initially 
declined because of what VWFS had put on Mrs Bs credit file.
The investigator didnt think the email from the mortgage broker changed his view, as it 
wasnt the mortgage broker who would make the lending decision  it would be the mortgage 
lender. He explained that, if Mrs B could provide evidence from the lender that the credit file 
entry from VWFS was the sole reason why the mortgage was initially declined, then he 
would consider this. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with this, and shes asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The basic facts of this matter arent in dispute. And VWFS have acknowledged they couldve 
done better. Because of this, my decision will focus on whether VWFSs offer of 
compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
When she stared to receive the arrears letters, Mrs B said that she had difficulties contacting 
VWFS. This was an unprecedented situation and government advice was for people to work 
from home where possible. So, VWFS wouldve needed to adapt their ways of working. And 
this came at a time when, for the same reasons, VWFS experienced a large increase in 
customer contacts. 
So, while I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mrs B to have to wait in a queue for a long 
period of time to speak to someone, I dont think VWFS did anything wrong because they 
were receiving a very high volume of customer contact at a time when their normal 
operations were disrupted due to circumstances outside of their control.
VWFS have acknowledged they didnt communicate with Mrs B as they should have. And 
they didnt update her credit file when they said they would. And this was at a time when Mrs 
B was looking to take on a new mortgage. Mortgage lenders have different criteria, and they 
may refuse a mortgage for a multitude of reasons. I appreciate that Mrs B believes that her 
mortgage was initially declined solely because of the information VWFS had put on her 
credit file. But Ive not seen any evidence of this. 
Mrs B has provided an email from her mortgage broker, dated 23 December 2020, which 
asked that emails between Mrs B and VWFS were sent to the underwriter because it goes 
to show that [Mrs B was] trying to make the payments and [VWFS] were the ones causing 
the issues. But the mortgage broker wouldnt be involved in making any lending decision, as 
shown by this email. So, this email doesnt show that the mortgage was initially declined 
solely because of the VWFS entry on Mrs Bs credit file. Confirmation from the mortgage 
lender would be required to show exactly why the mortgage was declined. And without this, I 
wont be considering asking VWFS to increase their compensation.
So, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, for the reasons 
stated above, Im satisfied that the overall compensation of £300 offered by VWFS is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And its now for Mrs B to decide whether to accept the 
additional £250 offered in January 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman