DRN-2865637
The complaint
Mrs W says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mrs W took out an 18-month instalment loan for £1,000 from Loans 2 Go on 10 September
2019. The monthly repayment was £228.56 and the total repayable was £4114.08.
Mrs W says she was never told how much the repayments would be, there was no stage for 
her to accept or decline the offer during the online application process. She would not have 
gone ahead had she known how much interest would be charged as it was unaffordable for 
her.
Our investigator said Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She said Loans 2 Go ought to 
have carried out further checks based on the results of Mrs Ws credit check, and had it 
done so it would have realised the loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Mrs W.
 
Loans 2 Go disagreed. It said, in summary, the credit check was on the whole very positive 
and whilst there was some adverse information this would to be expected given the type of 
lending it offers. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mrs W required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mrs W. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs W.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mrs W. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mrs Ws loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mrs W before it approved the loan. It
asked for her monthly income and expenditure. It then completed an income verification
check with a third party to understand her minimum income and it adjusted her declared
expenditure to ensure it was reasonable. It added a buffer of 10% to her expenditure. It 
checked Mrs Ws credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments and 
credit history. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mrs W had enough 
disposable income for the loan to be affordable.
Given the term and value of the loan, I think the lenders initial checks were reasonable and 
proportionate, but I dont think it reacted appropriately to the information it gathered. I think 
this was a case where the lender ought to have obtained additional information from the 
applicant. Ill explain why.
Loans 2 Go knew from the credit check it completed that Mrs W had defaulted on three 
credit card accounts that were at, or over, their limit in March/April 2018. I accept that this 
was around 16 months prior, but it could also see Mrs W had three active payday loans at 
the time of this application. And it knew Mrs W was self-employed so her monthly income 
may have fluctuated. So I think it should have asked for more information to better 
understand her financial position before lending.
I have looked at copies of Mrs Ws bank statements from the three months prior to this loan 
and her full credit report. I am not saying this is what Loans 2 Go needed to do, but it is one 
way to complete a fuller financial assessment in order to understand what Loans 2 Go would 
most likely have known had it completed better checks at the time.    
From these documents I can see Mrs W had two additional active payday loans, one taken 
out in August 2019 and one in September 2019  so five in total. And she had been using 
such high-cost short-term loans consistently in the three months prior to this application. She 
had also opened two lines of revolving credit in August 2019 (one high cost). So I think it 
was clear Mrs W was struggling financially and in a cycle of borrowing to repay. With this 
information I dont think Loans 2 Go, as a responsible lender, would have lent to Mrs W as it would have seen there was a high risk she would be unable to sustainably repay its loan. 
She went on to only make two repayments before falling into arrears.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give Mrs W this loan.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont find that it did. Ill explain why. Mrs W says Loans 2 Go failed to tell her how much the 
repayments would be, and she had no option to accept or decline the loan offer.
I have reviewed the online process Mrs W would have followed. After providing the personal 
information requested she would have been presented with all the key information in five 
sections (Information Sheet, Terms of Agreement, Pre-Contract Information, Repayment 
Agreement and Loan Agreement) and asked to read them and tick a box to acknowledge 
she understood what was expected of her. She then had to click Continue to proceed. I 
accept Mrs W cannot recall this, but I have found no evidence that her application did not 
follow this standard process. It seems funds would not have been released if that was the 
case. And the lender has sent in copies of the Pre-Contract Information and Loan 
Agreement that she signed electronically. These documents gave her the terms of the loan, 
including the interest payable and the monthly repayment. 
Mrs W also said the repayment was much too high. I accept the interest rate was high, but 
she had to actively engage in the loan application process, as Ive set out above, so I think 
its likely that at the time she was aware of what she was agreeing to pay. I havent seen 
anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated Mrs W unfairly or breached industry 
practice regarding interest charges. But in any event, the interest and charges will be 
refunded as Ive concluded this loan shouldnt have been given. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs W to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments 
Mrs W made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mrs Ws loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mrs Ws loan account results in there being an outstanding capital 
balance the lender must work with Mrs W to agree an affordable repayment plan. It 
should not pursue any capital balance it has already written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman