DRN-3055373
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money
(Virgin Money) handled his claim for a refund of a transaction he financed using his Virgin
Money credit card.
What happened
Mr B paid £1,050 for a wedding dress for his daughter, Ms B, from a supplier (who I shall
refer to as R) in October 2019. Ms B has said the dress was from a sample sale but she
was told by someone at R it could be altered to fit her.
Ms B said that in the following weeks she was told by a number of seamstresses the dress
could not be altered. Ms B came to an agreement with R that she would return the dress and
use the money as a deposit on another one.
Ms B said she asked R not to order the dress until she had viewed another collection but
once it became apparent she would need to travel to London to do this Ms B asked R for her
money back.
R refused to refund Ms B. It said the terms of its contract with her were clear that dress
deposits and sample sales were not refundable.
Mr B asked Virgin Money to pursue a refund for him. Virgin Money declined this for the same
reasons R gave. It did however offer to pay Mr B compensation of £100 for what it
considered to be a failure to respond to his claim within a reasonable time.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 setting out why I didnt plan to uphold Mr 
Bs complaint. I said:
Chargeback
The chargeback process is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved
between card holders and suppliers. They are dealt with under the relevant card 
scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain circumstances the 
process provides a way for Virgin Money to ask for a payment Mr B made to be 
refunded. Those circumstances can include where goods arent as described.
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks 
for one. But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where 
the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Raising a claim isnt a guarantee that it will be successful. A supplier can defend the 
claim and if it provides a valid defence  the card issuer might decide not to take any 
further action. Or, the card issuer can re-present the claim if it considers the supplier 
has raised a weak or invalid defence. And if the supplier continues to defend the 
claim the card issuer can take matters to an arbitration process, whereby Mastercard 
decides who should get to keep the funds.
It looks like Virgin Money did not attempt a chargeback in this case. But I dont find 
this was unreasonable. From the email communication I have seen between Ms B 
and R it seems most likely R would have defended a chargeback  R was after all 
adamant in this communication that Ms B was not due a refund
.
More importantly however, it was clear from the terms of the contract that Ms B 
signed for the first dress that sample dresses were sold as seen. And the card 
scheme rules state that a chargeback is not available in such circumstances where 
proper disclosure of the condition of the goods is made at the time of the sale.
I know Ms B said she was told by R that the dress could be altered and that she 
could not find a seamstress that would do it. Thats not to say however that it was 
impossible to alter it. Thinking about what Ms B said she was told about the dress, I 
dont find this was definitive enough to conclude the dress was not as described. So, 
I dont think that this would have led to a successful chargeback under the card 
scheme rules had Virgin Money pursued it to arbitration.
Ive thought about whether the issues with the second transaction gave rise to 
chargeback grounds. But this transaction was not funded by Mr Bs credit card 
payment. It was a separate arrangement between Ms B and R whereby R treated the 
money it held from the previous transaction as credit towards a new transaction. And 
this wasnt the result of a failure on Rs part on the first transaction  which may have 
given rise to chargeback rights on the second transaction. So, I dont find a 
chargeback would have succeeded on the second transaction.
Mr B has challenged the fairness of some of the terms of Rs contract with Ms B. In
assessing the prospects of a chargeback succeeding however my consideration is 
limited to the scope of the card scheme rules rather than the application of the 
Consumer Rights Act. Ive not seen anything that makes me think on balance that a 
chargeback would have succeeded had it been raised, no matter how robustly Virgin 
Money had pursued it.
Section 75
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
There are however certain conditions that have to be met in order for there to be a 
valid claim, which includes establishing a direct relationship between the debtor, the 
creditor and the supplier. This means the credit provided by the creditor (Virgin 
Money) must be used to finance a transaction between the debtor (Mr B) and the 
supplier (R).
I dont think its disputed that the agreement for the supply of the dress was between 
Ms B and R. Ms B signed the purchase agreement, the terms of which clearly set out 
that she was entering into a contract with R for the supply of a dress to her. 
Furthermore, Mr B has explained that his only involvement in the transaction was to 
make the payment for the dress over the phone and he didnt attend Rs premises 
with Ms B when the contract was formed. I cant reasonably say Mr B had a contract 
with R here.This means Mr Bs payment didnt fund a transaction between him and R, rather it     
funded one between Ms B and R. So, in this case the necessary debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship is not made out and Mr B did not have a valid claim under 
section 75. It follows that Virgin Money was not wrong to turn down Mr Bs claim for a 
refund.
Virgin Money has accepted that it did not keep Mr B reasonably informed of the 
progress of his refund request and I agree that this was the case. Taking into account 
the impact this had on Mr B and the distress and inconvenience it caused him, I think 
the compensation of £100 that Virgin Money paid to Mr B is fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr B made a number of submissions in response to my provisional decision which Ive 
summarised as follows:
Virgin Money sent him £100 without explaining what it was for and he would have 
refused it had it been explained it was compensation for its handling of matters. 
If he has paid for the dress in full then it should now be his property given Rs terms 
state that all dresses remain its property until paid for in full. 
Given the terms of Ss agreement state that items are not returnable or refundable, it 
breached this term by taking the dress back. It should have returned the cost of the 
dress to him once it had been sold.
Virgin Money provided no new comments or additional evidence. 
The complaint has therefore been returned to me for a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr B feels strongly that he has been wronged by R here. But I have to consider what 
Virgin Moneys liability to him is in this complaint when deciding if it should have done more 
to help him. This liability is grounded in either the chargeback process or section 75. So, 
while I make a decision on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I must take the law and related rules of these processes into account. 
Keeping this in mind, Ive thought carefully about what Mr B has said in response to my 
provisional decision. 
Ive not been provided with any new comments or evidence that would lead me to conclude 
the necessary relationship between the debtor, creditor and supplier was made out here. 
This relationship must first be established before I can consider whether Virgin Money is 
liable to Mr B for any breach of Contract by R under section 75. And as Mr Bs comments in 
response to my provisional decision relate to breach of contract, these dont change the 
conclusion I reached in respect of any claim Mr B had against Virgin Money under section 
75.    
Mr B said the dress should be in his possession now seeing as he paid for it in full and the 
terms of the contract with R provide for this in such circumstances. I dont think this changes my view on the likelihood of a chargeback succeeding. I think its likely that R would have  
defended a chargeback raised on the grounds of goods not received on the basis that a 
mutually acceptable agreement was made for the return of the dress in exchange for credit 
towards another transaction. I still dont think a chargeback would have succeeded on these 
grounds, or any other grounds for that matter (for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision), however robustly Virgin Money had pursued it. 
So overall, I still dont find it was unreasonable for Virgin Money to turn down Mr Bs request 
for a refund.
Mr B said he never knew why Virgin Money was giving him £100 and he wouldnt have 
accepted it had he known. It would have been helpful if Virgin Money had told Mr B why it 
had sent him this money first. But with everything considered, I still think £100 is fair 
compensation for any failure to keep Mr B informed of the progress of his refund request.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman