DRN-3648099
The complaint
Mr H complains about a former Appointed Representative (AR) of Sesame Limited. He says 
Sesame failed to properly consider the ongoing fees in a redress calculation and this has led 
to him suffering a loss.
Mr H is being represented. All references to Mr H will include information from his 
representative. Similarly, all references to Sesame will include actions and information 
relating to its former AR.
What happened
In 2010, Mr H transferred his pension arrangements to a new provider following the advice 
from Sesames AR. In a letter dated 26 January 2015 Sesame wrote to Mr H saying that its 
AR, Mercury, had been found to have provided Mr H with unsuitable advice. Sesame 
undertook a redress calculation and said this showed it needed to pay Mr H £39,266 net of 
basic rate tax into his new pension plan. It noted that this payment will be treated as a third 
party contribution and therefore, attracted tax relief which will in turn be added to his pension 
plan to bring the total value of the payment to £49,083.
In its offer letter to Mr H, Sesame set out what considerations it took into account when 
calculating the redress which it said included all annual charges including the On-going 
Adviser Charge. Sesame also said in its offer letter that:
If you accept this payment, it will be in full and final settlement of all claims against Sesame 
Bankhall Group and Mercury Financial Services (N.E) Limited arising out of the advice given 
by [the adviser] of Mercury Financial Services (N.E) Limited to transfer your pension 
arrangements to the [new pension provider name].
Sesame also said:
If we do not pay or contact you within 28 days of receiving your Acceptance Form and 
Additional Information Questionnaire you may complain to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service (FOS) using the contact details below.
You may wish to seek advice before deciding whether to accept this offer, however, if you 
choose to do so this will be at your own cost. 
Mr H accepted the offer and the redress was paid to him. But in 2020, he complained to 
Mercury saying it continued to take its fees from his pension until he cancelled this in 2019. 
Sesame said that its offer had been in full and final settlement of its ARs mistake so it didnt 
think it had to pay anything further.
Mr H maintained Sesame wrongly kept taking fees and that he wasnt fully compensated for 
this. And that Sesame should have told him that Mercury was no longer its AR since 2014.
Our investigator upheld the complaint but I issued a provisional decision saying that as Mr H 
had accepted Sesames offer in full and final settlement of its mistake, I didnt think it was fair 
or reasonable to uphold the complaint. 
In summary, Mr H, through his representative, made the following points:
The complaint is about the fees  not the advice.
The fees were for ongoing advice which wasnt received by Mr H.
The statements by the new pension provider werent clear such that Mr H didnt 
notice the fees were continuing to be paid to the AR. 
Sesames offer wasnt clear about the ongoing fees. Sesame should have arranged 
for these to be stopped.
Sesame has previously been fined by its regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) 
which shows that it hasnt acted fairly towards customers such as Mr H. It is also in 
breach of rules thats applied since 2012.
I wrote to Mr H again and clarified the issues around the fees. I explained that I thought it 
was likely that the initial advice fees had been taken by way of commission. Mr H continued 
to disagree and said that he didnt think the fees were related to the initial advice. So, the 
matter has been passed back to me to re-consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, its clear to me that Mr H and his representative, have 
strong feelings about this complaint. Mr Hs representative has provided detailed arguments to 
support his (Mr Hs) case which I can confirm Ive read and carefully considered. However, I 
trust that they will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, and that they are expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my 
decision isnt to address every point raised, but instead to set out my conclusions and reasons 
for reaching them.
Whilst Ive taken on board all of Mr Hs further submissions, Im not upholding the complaint. 
The reasons for this were set out in my provisional decision which now forms part of my final 
decision. These reasons are as follows:
In 2015, Mr H accepted Sesames offer in full and final settlement of any mistake it made in 
relation to the advice he received from its AR in 2010. And I think it provided sufficiently 
clear, fair and not misleading information for Mr H to make an informed choice as to whether 
he accepted this offer or not.
I know Mr H says that there is nowhere in the offer that says he would continue to be 
charged. But I also cant see anywhere in the offer documents that Sesame said it would 
waive its ongoing fees, or that, for example, it would take action to cancel the fees going 
forward. If Mr H was unhappy with the terms of the full and final settlement, he was clearly 
told he could bring the matter to our service. He also had 28 days to review and think about 
the offer. And take independent advice if he was unsure of anything.
I appreciate Mr H says that there was no transparency or information provided in relation to 
ongoing charges from the outset of the transfer. But I can see these were fully disclosed to 
him in the offer and also he would have seen these in his statements with his new provider. I note that in 2019, he took action to stop these charges from being taken from his account 
and this is clearly something he could have asked for at any time.
Whilst Mr H hadnt noticed the fees continued to be taken until 2019, I dont think it would 
now be fair to ask Sesame to repay any of the fees now as it made a full and final settlement 
for its mistake. As it said this meant that: 
If you accept this payment, it will be in full and final settlement of all claims against Sesame 
Bankhall Group and Mercury Financial Services (N.E) Limited arising out of the advice given 
by [the adviser] of Mercury Financial Services (N.E) Limited to transfer your pension 
arrangements to the [the new pension providers name]. 
So, I dont think it is now fair for Mr H to request that Sesame pay him any further redress in 
relation to this matter as he accepted its offer knowing the terms under which it was made. I 
know Mr H says that Sesame should have told him that Mercury no longer fell under its 
network in 2014. But as Sesame says there was no duty to do so. And I think even if it had 
done so, I dont see this would have altered anything in terms of his complaint.
Ill now deal with Mr Hs further points raised in response to my provisional decision and the 
clarification I sent around the fees:
Mr H says the complaint is about the ongoing fees not the advice. But, on balance, I 
consider those ongoing fees relate to the advice he was given. As I explained to Mr H 
in my follow up email to his representative, the On-going Adviser Charge as set out 
in his offer letter, more likely than not related to the cost of the advice he received. It 
clearly said in the suitability report that [Mr H] chose to take the commission option, 
for initial advice and the fee option for any ongoing advice or review. As Mr H noted, 
through his representative, these fees had been taken from the start of the new 
pension plan. So, I think its more likely than not that the commission payments that 
were being taken from Mr Hs new pension arrangements following the transfer, was 
for the payment of the advice he received from Sesames AR in 2010. 
So, when Mr H accepted Sesames offer in 2015, he was accepting the offer in full 
and final settlement of the unsuitable advice he received from Sesames AR which 
included how that advice had been paid for. He agreed that if he accepted the 
redress offer this would mean he could have no further claims against Sesame or its 
AR in relation to the transfer of his pension arrangements. The fees he was charged 
for the advice to transfer his pension arrangements, were part of that advice. Given 
this, I dont think it is fair or reasonable to now ask Sesame to pay recalculate that 
redress again.
Mr H also notes that in December 2012 new rules known as the Retail Distribution 
Review (RDR) were introduced to the financial advice market. And that paying 
commission to advisers for selling a retail investment product was banned. But these 
rules werent retrospective. And as Ive said above, the adviser charges were set out 
for Mr H in the redress offer letter. It explained that these were taken into account as 
part of the redress calculations. 
It should be borne in mind that at the time the offer was made to Mr H, he had an 
opportunity to question whether Sesame had correctly taken into account the 
ongoing adviser charges. The offer clearly set out that if Mr H wasnt sure about the 
offer he could bring the matter to our service or seek independent advice. In my view, 
the offer made to him was clear, fair and not misleading such that he could make an 
informed choice as to whether to accept it or not.I appreciate the statements Mr H received over the years from his new pension 
provider may not have been clear. But Im not making a finding on this. And I can see 
the offer letter from Sesame clearly said the ongoing adviser charges as well as other 
charges being taken annually from his current provider (the new pension provider), 
was included in the redress calculation. So even if the statements from the new 
pension provider werent clear, this doesnt mean Sesame didnt give him clear, fair 
and not misleading information about the offer it was making to him.
In terms of the fines Mr H refers to against Sesame by its regulator, this has no 
bearing on the facts of this particular complaint. Im looking at the facts of this 
particular case and Sesame, as it was requested to do so by the then regulator, 
carried out a redress calculation for Mr H and this is what was offered to him in full 
and final settlement of the unsuitable advice he was given. 
Mr H says Ive not considered all of his evidence. But as Ive said above, I have done 
so, and if Ive not commented on something, its because I dont consider it is 
relevant to my decision. 
For all the reasons set out above, whilst I understand Mr H will be disappointed by this 
outcome, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman