DRN-3797232
The complaint
Mr T complains that Trinity Lane Insurance Company Ltd (Trinity) havent fairly settled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and largely not in 
dispute, so Ill only summarise them here.
Mr T owns a car that was manufactured in the early 1990s and tells us it is insured 
as a classic car with an agreed value.
In December 2021 Mr Ts car suffered damage in an accident and he made a claim 
on his policy.
Trinity arranged for a garage to assess the damage and it said the car could be 
repaired, but it couldnt source the parts required to carry out the repairs. 
Trinity tried a number of other specialist repairers, and they were also unable to carry 
out the repairs due to being unable to source spare parts. So it offered Mr T a cash 
payment of the amount it estimated the repairs would cost.
Mr T was unhappy with this. He felt that as Trinity were unable to repair the car it 
should treat the car as a total loss and pay him the agreed value of the car. And he 
complained to Trinity.
Trinity maintained its position, saying its offer was in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Mr T remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He acknowledged the car was repairable if the 
parts were available, but he didnt believe they were available and none of the 
repairers Trinity had approached had been able to carry out the repairs. And based 
on what Trinity had evidenced, he didnt believe it had shown Mr T where he could 
source the parts from himself. So he wouldnt be able to arrange the repairs.
The investigator didnt feel it was fair for Trinity to rely of the terms and conditions of 
the policy. Or for Mr T to wait an unspecified time for parts to become available and 
be without his car during this period.
Trinity disagreed and asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and largely for the same reasons.
In response to the view Trinity have referred to another case which it says is similar but has 
a different outcome. The case referred to wasnt decided by an ombudsman and has several 
differences to the case I have to decide.
 
At the heart of this complaint is damage to Mr Ts car that hasnt been repaired. 
Trinity has approached a number of repair outlets, whove all reached the same conclusion 
despite conducting searches, including for second-hand parts. That conclusion is the parts 
are not available, or it may be some time before the parts become available. So it has 
offered a cash settlement in lieu of repairs. 
 
In the circumstances of this case Im not satisfied that a cash in lieu of repairs settlement is 
fair and reasonable. Mr T will not be able to arrange repairs himself. Effectively the car 
cannot be repaired, or cannot be repaired in a reasonable timeframe, as the parts are not 
available. And if a car cannot be repaired its reasonable for it to be deemed a total loss. So 
in this case I find it reasonable the agreed value should be used as the basis for settlement.   
Options such as the bespoke manufacture of replica parts havent been considered. Its 
likely the cost of this would exceed the agreed value of the car, and it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Trinity to incur costs beyond the agreed value, indeed the car would be 
deemed a total loss in such a situation. To be clear Im not suggesting bespoke parts should 
be made, simply illustrating that that to all effects the car cannot be repaired.
Trinity has relied on the policy terms and conditions, one of which sets out if the vehicle is 
damaged and a part cannot be repaired or replaced it will only pay the amount in the 
manufacturers list price. Ive considered this carefully. And on balance Im satisfied if Trinity 
cant source parts and they are unavailable, or unlikely to be available for some time as is 
the case here, then its unlikely Mr T will be able to source them either. Which means he will 
be unable to arrange repairs to his car. In the circumstances of this case I find the 
application of the term is unfair on Mr T as the policy doesnt do what its intended for, that is 
put him back in the position he was in directly before the accident.
Our investigator recommended Trinity should pay Mr T £200 for the inconvenience caused 
by having to chase the claim and make enquiries. I think thats a fair and reasonable 
amount, and in line with what Id require in these circumstances.
Putting things right
As Trinity has been unable to repair the car it should treat the claim as if it were a total loss 
and use the agreed value of the car as the basis for settlement, taking into account the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy including any excess applicable.
Further it should pay Mr T £200 for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Trinity Lane Insurance Company Ltd to settle the claim 
using the agreed value, taking into account the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
And pay Mr T £200 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman