DRN-1601404
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC (Amtrust) didnt pay out a 
claim for damage to his car. 
This complaint was brought by Ms M, on behalf of Mr M. However, for ease,Ill refer to both 
parties as Mr M.
What happened
Mr M had a Minor Damage Protection Insurance policy for his car, underwritten by Amtrust. 
In June 2019, he put in a claim for five scratches on his car. But Amtrust declined the claim 
because the area of damage was greater than the policy allowed for and covered more than 
the two body panels the policy allowed for.
Mr Ms complained that Amtrust declined his claim. Hes also unhappy that Amtrust wouldnt 
cover the damage to just two of the body panels.
Our investigator found that Amtrust had acted reasonably. He thought it was reasonable to 
measure the scratches collectively, because they related to a single event. And he thought 
Amtrust had fairly applied the terms of the policy when looking at what was excluded. He 
also thought Amtrust acted reasonably by not physically inspecting the car because the 
information Mr M had given was sufficient for them to make a decision - he didnt think an 
inspection wouldve altered the decision. So he didnt think Amtrust should do anything.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He says that, when he was sold the policy, he was 
made aware of the £1,000 limit per claim and told it was a no quibble [policy and] any small 
dents and scratches under 30cm would be covered. [The salesman] didnt point out that 
scratches would be dealt with collectively. He also says it doesnt actually state in the 
policy document that damage will be dealt with collectively, it just says it shouldnt cover 
more than 2 body panels.
Because of this, Mr M thinks he was mis-sold the policy and he should receive a full refund 
of the premium he paid  the policy he has is not the policy the salesman sold him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. I can understand 
this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive seen a copy of the policy Mr M was sold. This says hes covered for damage during the 
period of cover to the bodywork of your vehicle, including wing mirrors and bumpers which 
falls within a 30cm diameter. But this also says that damage which is greater than 30cm in diameter and covering more 
than two body panels is not covered. The policy definition of damage is a sudden or 
unforeseen event resulting in accidental damage to Your Vehicle which is less than 30cm in 
diameter and which can be described as one of the following: Minor Dents, Scratches or 
Bumper Repairs.
The policy refers to an event and damage within a specified area of 30cm diameter. It 
doesnt say the 30cm refers to the size of an individual scratch or dent but refers to this as 
being the size of the damage. And the definition of damage refers to dents or scratches, not 
a dent or a scratch. Based on this, the policy is designed to cover damage that occurs in a 
single event and doesnt exceed a total area or more than 30cm in diameter. 
This is how Amtrust applied the policy terms, so I cant say they applied these terms unfairly. 
Mr M submitted a claim for minor damage, supported by photographic evidence. This shows 
five scratches, which total 79cm in length (26cm, 18cm, 14cm, 13cm and 8cm), across three 
different body panels  the front wing, the front passenger door and the rear passenger door. 
While none of the individual scratches exceed 30cm, the overall area of damage exceeds 
30cm in diameter and covers three body panels  the policy only allows for damage to be 
spread over two body panels.
The damage to Mr Ms car doesnt fit within the definition in minor damage as specified by 
the policy, so I cant say Amtrust acted unreasonably by refusing this claim. And because its 
not minor damage, I dont think that Amtrust acted unreasonably by refusing to only repair 
part of the damage  the terms of the policy dont cover partial repairs; the whole of the 
damage caused by a single event has to fall within the terms of the policy, or it all falls 
outside of the terms of the policy.
I appreciate Mr M is unhappy the area of damage is too big to be covered by the policy. And 
I understand the damage hasnt been repaired. But, dependent on the terms of Mr Ms motor 
insurance policy, this damage may be something he claim for under that policy. 
Mr M has also said the policy has been mis-sold to him, because the terms of the policy 
werent made clear to him. Because of this, hed like a full refund of the premium he paid. 
But Amtrust didnt sell the policy to Mr M, they only underwrite the policy he was sold. So I 
cant hold them responsible for what may or may not have been said during the sales 
process. Any complaint about the potential mis-selling of an insurance policy will need to be 
made to the financial business who sold the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint about Amtrust 
International Underwriters DAC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman