The complaint
Mrs M makes a number of complaints about Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Mrs M complains that Nationwide online credit card screens don't provide accurate and clear 
information about her true credit card balance. She says payments are not recorded on her 
online information screens. Mrs M also says online functions have been removed from 
Nationwide's online website. And that Nationwide unlawfully credited her account with £140. 
She would like Nationwide to sort out these online problems.
Nationwide sent Mrs M its final response letter in April 2019 and dealt with other matters in 
addition to the complaint points she has brought to us. It says a payment can take up to two 
working days to clear and to appear online for its customers to view. It also it can take the 
same time for a balance to be updated. Nationwide says a call between it and Mrs M could 
have been handled more appropriately and paid £125 compensation.
Mrs M says it is a criminal act to pay money into an account in this way, and says changes in 
Nationwide's IT has led to some of the functionality problems. And its IT systems are 
misleading customers. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the payment in July 2019 was accurately reflected and that it was for Nationwide to 
decide how it operates its IT systems. The investigator thought Mrs M would have 
known she had brought a complaint and so ought to have realised the payment into account 
may have been compensation. The investigator didn't think in any event that payment would 
have had any impact on Mrs M or that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to have made that 
payment.
Mrs M then brought a new complaint about similar issues she experienced in February 2020. 
She says she made a payment of £800 in January 2020 towards her credit card balance. 
And due to Nationwide's systems not providing accurate account balance information, she 
made a further payment that was more than she needed to pay. Mrs M says she was told 
she would receive the overpayment back the following day but did not. She also complains 
that her account card was blocked despite her using the correct PIN.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Nationwide has dealt fairly with these complaints and I don't require it to do 
DRN-1302179anything further in the circumstances.
I know Mrs M is aware that we are not Nationwide's regulator. That means it is not our role 
to tell Nationwide what its policies are or how it operates it business. We can't fairly tell it for 
example how it should record information about account balances or how long it should take 
to process a customer's payment.
I'm satisfied the main parts of Mrs M's complaints are about such matters, and I hope in 
those circumstances she understands why I can't fairly tell Nationwide that it ought to 
change the way it operates in respect of those matters. For the same reasons I also can't tell 
Nationwide how its IT systems should operate and what information and functionality it 
includes and offers its customers.
I appreciate that on occasions Mrs M has made more than one payment towards her 
monthly credit card balance. I accept that is her choice. But I'm satisfied that Nationwide in 
the monthly account statements makes clear what the outstanding balance is and when it 
needs to be paid  to avoid interest. I also think Mrs M, if she wishes to make multiple 
payments, is able to keep her own record of those payments and that may avoid the 
overpayment problem that took place in February 2020.
I have listened to all the telephone calls between the parties in February 2020. I'm satisfied 
that Nationwide told Mrs M that the refunded payment would be in her account as soon as 
possible and not that it would be returned the following day. I appreciate what Mrs M says 
about that time period but I have explained why I can't fairly comment on that. I also accept 
that during the calls there was some confusion on Nationwide's part about the balance Mrs 
M owed as Nationwide included new transactions but Mrs M wanted to know how much she 
owed on the present statement. I don't think that means Nationwide misled Mrs M but that its 
staff member didn't understand initially what information Mrs M sought. 
Nationwide has told me that Mrs M entered incorrect PIN details and that is why account 
blocks were made. Mrs M says that wasn't the case. I think it more likely that an incorrect 
PIN was used but in any event I don't think there was a significant impact on Mrs M.
Mrs M says the payment into her account by Nationwide was a criminal act. I'm satisfied that 
it would be for a court to decide if a criminal act had taken place. But I don't think Nationwide 
acted unfairly by making the payment and explained what it was for in its response letter to 
Mrs M's complaint. I appreciate Mrs M didn't receive that letter but I can't fairly hold 
Nationwide responsible for that as it doesn't have responsibility for the delivery of the mail.
Overall I'm satisfied that Nationwide has dealt fairly with this complaint and accurately 
updated Mrs M's account with her payments. And I don't require it to do anything further in 
the circumstances of it. I have not looked at the level of compensation Mrs M received, as 
she hasn't brought a complaint to us about what took place in the phone call that led to that 
compensation payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.David Singh
Ombudsman