DRN-2635200
The complaint
Mr J complained that he shouldnt have been given a credit card by Vanquis Bank Limited
(Vanquis) and they lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr J was given a credit card by Vanquis in 2015 with a limit of £250. The limit was increased
by Vanquis as follows:
Date Old Limit New Limit
October 2015 New card £250
March 2016 £250 £500
August 2016 £500 £1500
March 2017 £1500 £2500
August 2017 £2500 £3000
Two payment plans were set up in May 2018 and June 2018. The debt was sold to a debt
collection agency in October 2019.Mr J complained that he shouldnt have been given the 
card in the first place and Vanquis shouldnt have given him increased limits. He was 
struggling with other debts of £20,000 and he couldnt afford the new borrowing.
Vanquis responded in January 2020. They said that Mr Js credit card application stated his
salary was £25,000 per annum. His credit file showed no outstanding CCJs. There was
defaulted debt, but those were over three years before. Other external debt £5,500. So, they
issued the card. Then there were four limit increases. At the time of each one there were no
CCJs or new defaulted debt. Other debts were reducing from £5,527 (March 2016) to £808
(June 2017). Minimum payments had been made in full and on time  and more than the
minimum had been paid in the three months before limit increases. Mr J was given the
chance to opt out of each increase, but he didnt.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. He
issued three views. The first (June 2020) said the issue of the card  and the increases of
limit from £250 to £2,500 were OK. But he thought that Vanquis shouldve made more
inquiries when increasing the limit to £3,000. The second view (July 2020) said that Vanquis 
were at fault in increasing the limit from £1,500. The third view (August 2020) said that he
thought the card shouldnt have been issued in the first place. So, it followed that all
borrowing shouldnt have taken place and all interest and charges since 2015 should be
refunded. He said that Mr J had a Debt Management Plan (DMP) in place since 2014. This
showed external debt of £12,000 - and Vanquis shouldve been aware of this  and made
further inquiries before lending more money.
Vanquis disagreed and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
I can appreciate that Mr J feels strongly that Vanquis are responsible for lending him more
money  which he couldnt afford. He says he was struggling with lots of other debts at the
time and the Vanquis card made this worse  they shouldve been aware of this and not
given him the card, nor increased his limits. He told our investigator he had debts of around
£12,000  and he was getting advice from a debt advice charity. Ive seen the information
hes given us about that, and it does show debts of £11853, excluding Vanquis.
I take a different view to our investigator. I dont think Vanquis couldve done anything more
in reaching its decisions to lend to Mr J. I will explain why.
The guidance we follow here is - in deciding whether a customer was provided with
unaffordable credit or provided with credit irresponsibly, we need to understand whether
reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out to be sure they would be able to
repay any borrowing. And was a fair lending decision made in the circumstances? Should
the lender have realised where appropriate that in some cases, to lend more money would
end up harming the customer in some way? And, these considerations must be borne in
mind at the time of each of the increases in credit limit.
But the key issue is  I have seen nothing which says that Vanquis were aware that he was
on a DMP. So, they didnt know he had debts of that amount. Vanquis could only make
lending decisions based on the information it has at the time  and whether it suggested that
there were possible problems which meant it should make further inquiries into Mr Js
circumstances.
Ive seen the analysis they did at the time, plus the notes on Mr Js account  for when the
card was issued and the limit increases.
October 2015  when the card was given to Mr J. The external debts were shown as
approximately £5,500  information was provided by credit reference agencies. There were
no CCJs and the last recorded default was 38 months before. Mr J stated on his application
form that his salary was £25,000 per annum Ive seen this. So, I think it was reasonable to
give Mr J the card.
Looking at the increases in limit:
March 2016  no CCJs were shown, the last recorded default was 42 months before, there
were no new loans shown and external debt was £5,,500. Mr J was paying more than the
minimum payments. No payments had been missed.
August 2016  no CCJs were shown, the last recorded default was 47 months before, there
were no new loans shown and external debt was £5500. Mr J was paying more than the 
minimum payments. One payment had been missed  Mr J told Vanquis he forgot to make
this.
March 2017 - no CCJs were shown, the last recorded default was 52 months before, there
were no new loans shown and external debt was down to £714. Mr J was paying more than
the minimum payments. One payment had been missed  Mr J told Vanquis he forgot to
make this.
August 2017 - no CCJs were shown, the last recorded default was 57 months before, there
were no new loans shown and external debt was £937. Mr J was paying more than the
minimum payments. One payment had been missed  Mr J told Vanquis this was due to
unforeseen expenditure.
On each increase, Mr J was given the option of saying no  he didnt.
Our investigator has said that Vanquis shouldve been aware of the involvement of the DMP which said there were debts of £12,000. But Ive seen Vanquiss notes on Mr Js account.
Theres no reference to this. There are a lot of calls to Vanquis by Mr J, but none mentioned
a DMP. Ive seen the external credit data that Vanquis looked at - it shows other debts of
£5,500 in 2016  and it reduced to under £1,000 in 2017. And there were no recent defaults.
Our investigator said that Vanquis shouldve found out why the debt reduced  but I dont
agree with him. And Mr J later told us that the debt reduced because he had a PPI refund
which meant he repaid some of it. Why the information on external debts was different
between the credit reference agencies and the debt management plan is not clear  but
since Vanquis had no knowledge of the DMP, thats not their fault.
So, Vanquis could only make its lending decisions based on the information it had at the
time, and from what Ive seen, there wasnt anything which might have caused it to make
further enquiries of Mr J. So, they acted reasonably and proportionately. So, my provisional
decision is that Vanquis dont need to do anymore here.
Vanquis had no comments to make, but Mr J did. He said (in summary):
Hed been declined a credit card by other lenders at the time. He couldnt get a 
mobile phone contract.
Hed been declined a bank loan and was overdrawn continuously.
Vanquis didnt ask him about his credit history, credit applications to other lenders, or 
existing debts.
His stated earnings of £25,000 was a gross figure before paying expenses of running 
his taxi business. Vanquis didnt ask about this.
Vanquis shouldve asked StepChange about his other debts.
The credit reference agency used by Vanquis didnt report accurate information.
Vanquis target and exploit vulnerable people.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr J has said, but Im not departing from my original findings I reached 
in my provisional decision.
I looked carefully at the information that Vanquis had when they made their lending 
decisions. This was shown in my provisional decision. In my view, based on the information 
before them at the time, Vanquis made reasonable and proportionate checks when lending 
to Mr J.
At the time of each increase, it looked as if Mr J could afford the lending. They saw that he 
had other debts and were comfortable with them. The CCJs were old  and getting older 
each time. They had no knowledge of the involvement of StepChange  Mr J hadnt told 
them. I looked at the credit card application and it stated a gross income before tax of 
£25,000  they could only go on what Mr J told them at the time and the other information 
that was available to them  which is what they did here.Mr J has made some points specifically about a credit reference agency in response to my 
provisional decision. But I can only consider Mr Js complaint about Vanquis here. If Mr J 
wishes to complain about this business, he is free to do so  but I make no comment on that 
matter here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman