DRN-3850438
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC have provided her poor customer service on 
multiple occasions.
What happened
Mrs C says that Barclays have been virtually ignoring her since they closed her husbands 
account in summer 2020. She is a Barclays Premier customer. Mrs C has listed a number of 
examples of poor customer service which she received from Barclays. These include not 
being assigned a Barclays Premier Manager (BPM) after her normal BPM was on sick leave 
and not receiving contact from Barclays when she had a bond which was due to mature on 
14 December 2020.
Mrs C says that she had to approach Barclays and she decided to roll over the bond. She 
spoke to a BPM who arranged this for her, but she says he made it clear he was not her 
permanent replacement. She says she has had no contact since and no explanation of what 
has happened. Mrs C emailed the head of Premier Banking at the time and highlighted her 
concerns and she asked for a permanent BPM to be allocated to her, but she says she did 
not get a response from him, despite her following him up with another email.
Mrs C says that she received a call from a member of staff who sorted out the bond issue, 
then vanished. She said she had subsequently been given, on an ad hoc basis, a BPM, who 
she has never met, but she misses the regular call and care she received from her original 
BPM, who she said shes had no contact from for over a year.
Mrs C says that on 13 May 2021, after three requests, she received statements of her 
account through the post in an open envelope with the contents falling out. She also said 
that she had an Individual Savings Account (ISA) renewed on 24 April 2021 and despite 
numerous requests for a full certificate of investment, she had been told that she needs to 
settle for a form showing a nil balance, but other ISA providers have given her a form 
confirming the balance, start and expiry date and interest rates. 
Mrs C says she was walking past her local branch on 10 May 2021 and noticed the signage 
being removed and the branch was closed on 30 April, but she hadnt been informed of the 
branch closure. She says that she emailed her regular BPM on 18 June 2021 enquiring 
about her health and asking her to continue to look into her affairs, but Mrs C had no 
response, so she followed this up with another email on 2 July, but she still didnt receive a 
response. Mrs C made a complaint to Barclays. 
Barclays did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. They said that in relation to the maturing bond, 
all correspondence is issued in writing prior to the maturity date, which will detail all options 
available to her and what the next steps are. They said this is issued by their central 
processing team. Barclays said Mrs Cs previous regular BPM was currently out of the office 
and is unable to support her currently. They said during this time, she has received support 
from an alternative BPM. They said Mrs C had been previously advised that the regular BPM 
would no longer be her point of contact, and as such she would be supported by their direct 
team. Barclays gave Mrs C a telephone number and an email address to contact them if she 
needed to and they explained she would not receive a direct point of contact.
Barclays told Mrs C that they were unable to send her a certificate of investment for her ISA 
as they do not offer this. They confirmed her bond had been renewed and reinvested and 
this was sent to her in writing on 15 December 2020. They also said that when making 
decisions to close a branch, they are required to provide notice of this to their customers. 
This could be in writing, advertised in branch and detailed on their website. They said 
although customers may live in the surrounding area, this may not have been their regularly 
used branch and as such, they rely on data to allow them to reach out to customers who 
regularly use the branch. They did not agree that they failed to notify their customers 
accordingly and they said the planned closure had been advertised accordingly.
Barclays said that all correspondence they send is securely sealed when leaving them and 
as such they could not evidence a bank error with her statements falling out of the envelope. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. She said that Barclays sent Mrs C 
correspondence about her maturing bond to her registered address. She said while she 
wouldve preferred a direct contact from the BPM she dealt with previously, Barclays had 
done enough to make her aware that her bond was maturing and the options available to 
her. She also said that Barclays explained to Mrs C that she was being supported by their 
direct team and she wouldnt have a point of contact.
Our investigator said that Barclays were entitled to make a commercial decision to close the 
branch and their process was to contact customers who regularly used the branch. Our 
investigator concluded that Barclays hadnt made an error or acted unfairly.
Mrs C asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary she said she had no advance notification of the maturing bond and Barclays did 
not contact her about this and she had to do all of the chasing. She said that she hadnt 
been advised of the branch closure and the main issue is that Barclays have treated her 
differently since the summer of 2020, when Barclays attitude towards her had totally 
changed.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has made a number of points to this service and Barclays and Ive considered and 
read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Im satisfied that Barclays did send Mrs C notification of her maturing bond by post. I say this 
because Barclays have sent our service the letter dated 17 November 2020 which is 
addressed to the same address as she has given this service. In addition, theyve also sent 
me a screenshot which shows this was posted to her on 18 November 2020. Its possible 
that Mrs C didnt receive this due to a postal issue. But I cant hold Barclays responsible for 
this as this would be out of their control.
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about her receiving a call normally about her maturing 
products. While I can understand why she would be concerned that she didnt get a call on 
this occasion, I cant say Barclays have done anything wrong by not ringing her here. I say this because Ive looked at the bond terms and conditions. They are only required to let Mrs 
C know that the bond is maturing. And as they did this via post (although Mrs C didnt 
receive this, Barclays would not have reasonably known this at the time) then Barclays 
fulfilled the terms and conditions here. Although she may have received a courtesy call in the 
past, this is not something which Barclays promise to do as part of their terms and 
conditions. 
Mrs C has also acknowledged in her email to the head of Premier Banking in December 
2020, that she was aware the bond was maturing, so I cant say she lost out on any 
accounts as a result of not getting a phone call, although I can understand her 
disappointment at not being proactively contacted by phone when this had previously 
happened. I can see that Barclays sent her a letter on 15 December 2020, confirming that 
the new two year fixed rate bond had been opened and this confirmed all of the details I 
would expect it to. And Mrs C says she did speak to a BPM who managed to arrange the 
new bond for her.
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about the branch closure. Barclays have confirmed that 
the branch would have had the relevant notices prominently displayed in the banking hall, on 
the door as a person would enter the branch and elsewhere. They also said this would be on 
their website. I appreciate Mrs C has said she doesnt visit this branch often as she used to 
get a personal service from her BPM. Barclays are not required to write to every customer in 
the surrounding area to notify them of a branch closure. For example, customers who do not 
use the branch at all or rarely carry out transactions in the physical branch itself would not 
automatically get notified. Barclays have confirmed to me that Mrs C didnt meet the 
transactional criteria to be written to prior to the branch closure. So while I can understand 
her surprise at the signage being taken down and her not being aware the branch had been 
closed, I cant say that Barclays have done anything wrong here.
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about not receiving a certificate of investment for her 
ISA. But Barclays do not issue a certificate of investment for their ISAs. And they are not 
required to do so by the regulator. Although Mrs C has said that other ISA providers offer 
this, I cant say Barclays have done anything wrong by not offering this. I say this because 
Barclays are free to confirm the account details in other ways. And it is not the role of this 
service to interfere with commercial decisions that a business makes. 
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about not being assigned a BPM after her regular BPM 
was on sick leave. I can understand why Mrs C would be upset by this. But I can see that 
she has had support from an alternative BPM, even though he was only temporary. Barclays 
explained in their response on 29 July that Mrs C would be supported by their direct team 
and they provided a telephone number and an email address for them. 
Im also aware that Barclays have changed their Premier service as I can see they sent Mrs 
C an email in late 2021 to let her know they are introducing a new team of Financial 
Guides, which would be replacing their current relationship management service from 14 
December 2021. The email states they will be on hand when they are needed, such as them 
being available on evenings and on Saturdays to fit around Mrs C and it explains how she 
can book an appointment with them from 14 December. So I hope this gives Mrs C some 
comfort that Barclays arent trying to get rid of her as a customer, as she suspects they may 
be.
Ive also considered what Mrs C has said about an envelope not being sealed which 
contained her statements and that these fell out of the envelope. Its difficult to determine 
what happened here. I say this as Barclays have confirmed all of their envelopes are sealed 
via a machine. But theyve also said there could have been an issue with the machine. I 
would find it unlikely that some/all of the contents of the communication wouldnt have fallen out at some part of the journey from Barclays mailing room to Mrs Cs front door if the 
envelope hadnt been sealed, but it could be that the envelope wasnt sealed as much as it 
should have been and the seal became looser and looser on the journey to Mrs Cs house 
which resulted in these falling out of the envelope when she received the post.  
Ive then considered about her communication with her regular BPM. Theres no doubt that 
the BPM had been absent from work and this was communicated to Mrs C when she did get 
a reply from her regular BPM. But Im persuaded she was also let down here and Ill explain 
why. I would expect someone who is customer facing and representing Barclays to display 
an out of office automatic reply if they are out of the business through sickness or they are 
absent for any other reason for a prolonged period of time, to direct the customer to a person 
or department who would been able to help with their customers query while they werent 
working. 
Im persuaded that Mrs Cs regular BPM did not have an automatic out of office reply on her 
emails. As a result of this, Mrs C was not aware when the BPM was working or not. The 
replies were sporadic or not at all. This resulted in Mrs C being distressed and feeling that 
she was being treated differently by the BPM since the summer of 2020. It would not make 
sense for Mrs C to constantly email an address which automatically told her that the person 
was out of the business currently and if she was given alternative details to contact. And that 
is why Im satisfied that Mrs C was let down here. Although Ive considered what Barclays 
have said about previously advising her that the regular BPM would no longer be her point of 
contact, when I asked them to provide evidence of this, they told me there was limited 
evidence of their responses to her, with their correspondence to Mrs C, explaining the 
regular BPM would not be dealing with her moving forward in 2020. They provided me with 
no communication of this to Mrs C. So Im persuaded that Mrs C was let down here by 
Barclays.
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about a lack of a reply from the head of Premier 
Banking. And Im persuaded that she has been let down by Barclays about this also. I say 
this as I asked Barclays to send me the replies they sent Mrs C regarding the two emails she 
sent him. Barclays told me that due to the length of time which has passed, they hadnt been 
able to establish whether she did receive any responses or acknowledgements to her 
emails, but they conceded that based on the balance of probabilities, its likely she didnt 
receive any replies from them. So Im satisfied this would have caused Mrs C further 
inconvenience of typing another email after she didnt receive a response to the first one. 
And this added to the distress of her feeling that Barclays stance towards her had changed 
since the summer of 2020. 
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for Mrs Cs complaint. While I cant agree 
with all of her complaint points, such as how Barclays communicated with her about the 
bond maturing, the branch closure, the certificate of investment and not being assigned 
another BPM after her regular BPM was not working, I am persuaded that Barclays let Mrs C 
down on a number of occasions by not responding to the communication she sent to the 
head of premier banking, the responses (or lack of responses from her regular BPM) and 
they may have also been at fault for an item of post not being sufficiently sealed.
Im persuaded that £200 compensation would be reasonable for what happened here and Ill 
explain why. This wasnt a single occurrence where something went wrong. There were a 
number of occasions, spanning several months, where Mrs C was not treated fairly. So Im 
persuaded that £200 would fit within our established guidelines for compensation based on 
the impact of the multiple service issues from Barclays to Mrs C. So it follows I intend to ask 
Barclays to put things right for Mrs C.I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclays accepted the provisional decision. Mrs C said she accepted the 
provisional decision, but she would also like a letter of apology from Barclays for the way she 
had been treated. She also said that the bond in question, is due for renewal within the next 
few days and their terms and conditions state that she should be given a minimum of three 
weeks notice, but she has heard nothing from them. She also said her monthly statements 
which come through the post still displays the same branch address as the branch which 
was closed nearly two years ago.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make it clear to Mrs C that Im only able to address her complaint points that have first 
been put to Barclays, in order to give them a chance to investigate these matters. Then, if 
she is unhappy with their response, she can bring these matters to our service. As the new 
bond maturity and how the address is displayed on her statements do not appear to have 
been investigated by Barclays as part of her original complaint (which would be 
understandable considering the bond maturity is just about to happen), then she will need to 
contact Barclays first about these matters. So Im unfortunately unable to comment any 
further on these matters here.
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about an apology letter from Barclays. I can understand 
why she has asked for this based on the examples Ive given of Barclays letting her down in  
my provisional decision. So I want to let Mrs C know that when I asked Barclays for further 
information that I documented in my provisional decision that they did apologise. I have 
copied underneath what they have said to me in response of the evidence I provided them, 
to hopefully give Mrs C some closure in this matter:
Based on the evidence you have provided, and based on the balance of probabilities, its
likely the customer didnt receive any replies from us. Were truly sorry for this and I can 
assure you feedback has been noted internally. I also want to apologise that this wasnt 
addressed within our original response to the customer. I also understand the customer 
raised some concerns regarding documents arriving in an unsealed envelope, which we 
havent addressed. Once again, I can only offer my apologies to the customer around this.
Im satisfied that the response from Barclays shows their remorse at how theyve let Mrs C 
down. They have stated they are truly sorry and they havent just stopped at the apology, 
they have noted feedback internally about this. So Im persuaded this would be an 
appropriate step to do and goes over and above what Mrs C has asked, as hopefully the 
internal feedback may help prevent these things happening again. So I wont ask Barclays to 
write a separate letter of apology as Im not persuaded it would be proportionate based on 
what they have said above. Im satisfied that the apology above and the £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience is a fair outcome for the impact that Barclays actions has 
had on Mrs C. 
In summary, Mrs Cs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. But I hope she understands my reasons for 
this if she is disappointed in me not asking Barclays to write a separate letter of apology.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs C £200 for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should settle the 
complaint in line with the instructions in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman