DRN-1696138
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company. 
What happened 
Mr C took out PPI when he applied for a mortgage in one of the banks branches in 
November 2001. The policy started when the mortgage started - in July the following year. 
The policy gave him protection for his mortgage repayments if he couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. It also included life and critical illness cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
Theres no record of the conversation which took place and the process the 
adjudicator described was not what actually happened.
He was never told he could decline the PPI; it was presented as a combined package 
with the mortgage with no option to choose. 
He was given the impression that if he didnt accept the PPI, his mortgage application 
would not have been successful.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C doesnt recall being given a choice about PPI. Ive considered this carefully. I cant be 
sure exactly what was discussed, so Ive relied more on the paperwork that was completed 
at the time. The mortgage application included a separate section headed Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan and Mr C signed in the box, just below the wording, Yes, I would like to 
take advantage of the TMPP. Despite Mr Cs recollections, I think it was made reasonably 
clear that the PPI was a separate product and that Mr C didnt need to take it for his 
mortgage application to be successful. 
Halifax advised Mr C to take out the policy. It doesnt look like it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Let me explain why.Mr C cant recall exactly what pay he would have been entitled to from his employer if he 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident, but he thinks it would have been six months to 
one year. The PPI would have paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 24 
months. The mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment and Mr Cs home 
was at risk if he didnt keep up with the repayments. It also covered him if hed become 
unemployed. So, overall, I dont think his existing arrangements made the PPI unsuitable.
Mr C provided us with evidence of his savings in 2001/2002 showing he had around 
£27,000. But hes explained this was for his house deposit, so would not have been 
available to meet his monthly mortgage repayments. Its possible he would have had some 
savings  but these were probably earmarked for his new home. In any event, the PPI was 
intended to be in place for the duration of the mortgage, and his savings were likely to 
fluctuate. So this doesnt make a difference to my conclusion.
Its not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr C before he 
agreed to purchase it. I think he probably wasnt told it would cost £28.50 each month until 
after hed applied for it. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information about 
the cost would have affected his decision to purchase the policy. Hed chosen to take out the 
PPI, knowing he would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely he would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Mr C would have made a different decision about taking out the 
policy if better information had been provided to him  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the PPI.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman