DRN-1294880
The complaint
Miss W complains that Advantage Finance Ltd charged her an unfair and excessive amount 
of interest on a hire purchase agreement for car.
What happened
In March 2015 Miss W entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement for a used car. She 
says it was a vulnerable time in her life due to a change in her personal circumstances and 
she had needed to replace her car as her original had broken down.
Miss W says she was pleased to find a suitable car but wasnt aware of the interest rate that 
had been applied. She had been shocked when obtaining a settlement statement to discover 
the amount of the interest that had been added to the cost of the car which meant she was 
paying virtually double the price for it.
Miss W complained to Advantage about the amount of interest that had been added to the 
cost of the car. Advantage didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. It said that Miss W had been 
provided with pre-contract information before signing the hire purchase agreement and this 
document had clearly set out the total cost of the loan, with a breakdown of the interest 
charges, applicable fees and monthly repayments. It said it was reasonable to expect Miss 
W to have read this documentation and that by signing the hire purchase agreement she had 
agreed to its terms and conditions.  Advantage said there wasnt any evidence Miss W 
hadnt been competent to make the decision to take out the hire purchase agreement.
Advantage also said that although Miss W was disappointed with the amount still owing on 
the agreement and about the value of the car, she needed to take into account that the car 
was depreciating in value due to its age and use.
Miss W was unhappy at the view taken by Advantage and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. She said the 
precontract information and agreement set out the amount of interest being charged and 
showed the cost of the car and the total amount to be paid under the agreement. So, 
Advantage had provided the necessary information to Miss W. Miss W had signed the 
agreement to show she agreed to its terms and conditions.
Our investigator said that Miss W had chosen to enter into the agreement and Advantage 
had provided enough information for her to make an informed decision as to whether this 
agreement was right for her. Our investigator said that Miss W had the right to voluntary 
terminate the agreement once she had paid back half the total amount borrowed.
Miss W disagreed with our investigators view. She said that if she voluntary terminated the 
agreement now then she would be left with nothing. She said the amount of interest that had 
been charged was unfair and excessive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that at the time Miss W entered into the agreement she was feeling vulnerable. 
She had needed a car for both work and personal use and, as her original car had broken 
down, had also needed to arrange a replacement quickly. Miss W says that if she had been 
aware of the actual amount of interest she would be paying under agreement, she wouldnt 
have signed it. 
Ive seen that Miss W was pleased with the car that she found at the dealership and that she 
needed to apply for finance to pay for it. This was arranged with Advantage via a broker. The 
broker provided Miss W with the pre-contract information which was emailed to her to allow 
her to consider it. And looking at this documentation I think it sets out what the cost of the 
car was, the rate of interest to be charged, the total amount of interest being applied to the 
agreement and the total amount to be paid by Miss W under the agreement. I also think the 
figures and information are shown in a clear and readable format. This information wasnt 
hidden for instance in small print at the end of the agreement nor did it require Miss W to 
make her own calculations as to what the car would cost by the end of the agreement. Ive 
also seen that the same figures were contained in the hire purchase agreement.
So, I dont think I can reasonably say Miss W was misled by the credit and interest figures or 
as to how much the total cost of the car was going to be at the end of the five years. I think 
she was provided with sufficient information for her to make an informed decision as to 
whether this was the right agreement for her at that time. I also think its reasonable to 
expect consumers to read agreements before they sign them. And although this wasnt a 
good period in Miss Ws life, I also dont think I can reasonably say that she wouldnt have 
been able to weigh up the information provided.
I understand Miss Ws concern that she has paid considerably more than the cash price for 
the car. She says the amount of interest that was added was excessive. She also says that 
she couldnt have terminated the agreement at the half way point as she would have been 
left with nothing. But I cant say Advantage has acted unfairly. It was entitled to set the rate 
of interest that it did for the agreement, and it provided all the necessary information about 
the cost of that interest rate to Miss W. 
I think its fair to say Miss W was free to reject the agreement if she had thought it unsuitable 
and that she had chosen to enter into it. And for the reasons given, Im not upholding Miss 
Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2020. 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman