DRN-2441354
The complaint
Mr N complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc wouldnt cover the cost of 
emergency repairs to his boiler under his home emergency insurance.
What happened
Mr N had a home emergency insurance policy with RSA. All Mr Ns dealings were with 
RSAs claims administrator, however that company was acting as RSAs agent so, for 
simplicity, Ill refer to RSA throughout my decision.
In March 2020, Mr Ns boiler failed, leaving his home without heating or hot water. He 
contacted RSA for help under his home emergency insurance. RSA arranged for an 
engineer to visit the next day. The engineer diagnosed a faulty air pressure switch (APS) 
and blocked restrictor but had to order new parts before he could fix the problem. RSA 
explained that it would take a few days to get these parts. In the meantime, RSA offered Mr 
N the alternative heating allowance available through his policy. Mr N didnt take this up.
RSAs engineer fitted the new parts three days later, but he discovered a more serious 
problem with the APS. The boiler manufacturer (B) told RSAs engineer he needed to 
inspect the flue, however he was unable to gain access to this immediately. 
Mr N didnt want to delay further  by this stage hed been without heating and hot water for 
four days  and told RSA hed arranged for Bs engineer to repair the boiler. RSA said it 
would reimburse Mr N if B was able to repair the boiler, however it wouldnt cover the cost of 
a call-out if it didnt fix the problem (what it calls an abortive call).
On 27 March, Mr N told RSA that Bs engineer had carried out more work but found the 
boiler was beyond economical repair. Mr N sent the engineers invoice to RSA and asked it 
to reimburse this payment.
RSA said it understood Mr N had arranged for B to repair the boiler. However, when it 
reviewed the invoice it saw that Mr N had contracted his own engineer  not B  to carry out 
the work. RSA also believed Mr Ns engineer had completed unnecessary work and 
replaced parts that might not have needed to be replaced. Finally, RSA said it told Mr N it 
wouldnt pay for an abortive call. For these reasons, RSA refused to reimburse Mr N. 
Mr N doesnt accept that. He says RSA agreed to reimburse his costs and wants it to refund 
him in full. He brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. He accepted 
RSA said it might cover third party costs, but this was because it believed Mr N had 
contracted B to fix the problem. He agreed with RSA that Mr Ns engineer had duplicated 
work already done. He was satisfied that RSA didnt need to reimburse Mr N for his 
engineers work. 
Mr N disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns policy covered him for: Emergency Work following the complete breakdown of the 
Primary Heating System which:- i) results in the complete loss of heating to the Insured 
Areas of Your Property and/or ii) results in the complete loss of hot water. His policy 
schedule shows he was covered for a call-out and repairs (parts and labour) to a limit of 
£500. This was confirmed to Mr N during at least two phone calls with RSA.
Im satisfied that the call-out and work done by RSAs contractor was covered by Mr Ns 
home emergency insurance. However, Mr N also asked RSA to pay for work carried out by 
his own engineer. He says RSA agreed to do this.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr N and RSA. I found no evidence that RSA guaranteed 
to pay for work carried out by Mr Ns engineer. Indeed, in a phone call on 26 March, RSAs 
advisor asked Mr N why B was attending. She was clear about what RSA would and 
wouldnt pay for: 
if [B] can sort it then, sir, and theyre gonna make the access [to the flue] and 
figure it all out for you, then thats fine just send us the invoice for the fixed price 
repair If it does come back and they say that they couldnt do it for you because 
access was needed, and they charge you an abortive fee, we wouldnt be looking to 
reimburse the abortive fee if they say thats the case, because weve already told you 
that the access is needed.
Mr N replied Ok, thats fine. 100%.
Its clear from listening to the calls that Mr N told RSA hed arranged for B to repair the 
boiler. On 27 March, he told RSA that Bs engineer had carried out the work and declared 
the boiler beyond economical repair. I dont think this was correct.
Ive also reviewed the emails that Mr N says proves RSA agreed to cover the cost of his 
engineers work. I dont agree that they do. For example, RSAs email to Mr N on 26 March 
asked Mr N to provide an invoice and a job report so that it could assess his claim and said, 
Please note that we can only assess reimbursement of emergency work, which meets the 
terms and conditions of your policy.
The invoice from Mr Ns engineer shows two repairs to the boiler plus labour, totalling £460. 
The invoice also says, unfortunately the boiler is still not working we recommend new 
boiler as the current boiler is beyond economical repair. 
RSA had told Mr N it needed to access the flue to complete additional tests before the 
repairs could be completed. Mr Ns engineer wasnt employed by B and didnt access the 
flue. The work he carried out didnt fix the boiler or help the situation. Im afraid I agree with 
RSA it doesnt appear to me that the work done at this stage was necessary. 
Ive considered whether RSA did all it could to minimise the time taken to resolve the 
problem to see if Mr Ns decision to call on his own engineer was justified.
RSA sent an engineer to Mr Ns home within 24 hours of him reporting the problem. The 
engineer identified the fault and returned with new parts three days later. He was waiting to 
get access to the flue when Mr N arranged his own engineers visit. 
Im also conscious this was at the start of the first coronavirus lockdown in the UK. RSA 
explained to Mr N that many suppliers were closed or under restrictions. In the circumstances, I think RSA was doing all it could to fix Mr Ns boiler as quickly as possible. 
Im also satisfied that it offered to pay its heating allowance so Mr N could have some heat 
while repairs were ongoing.
I sympathise with Mr N. This must have been a very difficult few days and I understand why 
he wanted the boiler to be repaired as soon as possible. However, Im satisfied that RSA 
acted reasonably. I dont think it has to reimburse him for his engineers work.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman