DRN-3369614
Complaint
Mr S complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as Ratesetter) overcharged him 
when he settled a Non-commercial peer-to-peer loan in July 2019.
Background and my provisional decision of 24 February 2022
Mr S was provided with a Non-commercial peer-to-peer loan for £25,000.00 in May 2019. 
This loan had a loan fee of £1,192.50 and interest of £3,184.70 and the total amount payable 
of £29,377.20 was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £489.62.  
In July 2019, Mr S contacted Ratesetter to settle this loan early and was told he needed to 
pay £26,402.49 in order to do so. Although unhappy with the settlement figure quoted, as he 
thought that this was around £900 higher than he thought it should be, Mr S repaid his loan 
and then complained to Ratesetter.
Ratesetter didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said that its terms and conditions meant that     
Mr S was required to pay the remaining balance of the amount advanced, the full amount of 
the loan fee and any accrued interest and fees up until the settlement date, when settling a 
loan early. And, in its view, this meant that Mr S was asked to pay the correct amount to 
settle his loan.
Mr S disagreed and said that the loan fee was a cost of the credit and included in the Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR). Mr S argued that this meant that he should have received a 
proportionate refund of the loan fee - notwithstanding it having been paid upfront - and 
Ratesetter failing to do this meant that he was charged an APR of around 40% rather than 
the 6.7% quoted on the loan agreement. As Ratesetter didnt change its position Mr S 
referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr S complaint and thought that Ratesetter hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. In her view, the loan fee was part of the advance 
rather than a cost of the credit and therefore Mr S wasnt entitled to a rebate. Mr S disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
On 24 February 2022, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr S 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by setting out what I thought were the key regulatory provisions when Ratesetter 
arranged this loan for Mr S. 
Ratesetter arranged this loan for Mr S while it was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements 
which all authorised firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principles 
here are PRIN 2.1.1 R (2) which says:
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
And PRIN 2.1.1 R (7) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets out the rules which apply to operators of an 
electronic system in relation to lending like Ratesetter. Bearing in mind the complaint before 
me, I think the most relevant section of CONC here is CONC 4.3 which sets out the Pre-
contractual requirements and adequate explanations for P2P agreements.
In May 2019, when Ratesetter brought about this loan for Mr S, CONC 4.3.4R said:
Adequate explanations
(1)Befor e a P2P agreement is made, the firm must:
(a)provide th e prospective borrower with an adequate explanation of the 
matters referred to in (2) in order to place the customer in a position to 
assess whether the agreement is adapted to the customer's needs and 
financial situation;
(b)where the P2P agreement is not a non-commercial agreement, advise the 
prospective borrower:
(i)to consider the information which is required to be disclosed under 
section 55 of the CCA; and
(ii)where the information is disclosed in person, that th e borrower is 
able to take it away;
(c)provide th e prospective borrower with an opportunity to ask questions about the 
agreement; and
(d)advise th e prospective borrower how to ask the firm for further information and 
explanation. 
(2)The matters referred to in (1)(a) are:
(a)the features of the agreement which may make th e credit to be provided under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b)how much th e borrower will have to pay periodically and, where the 
amount can be determined, in total under the agreement;
(c)the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which 
would have a significant adverse effect on the borrower in a way which 
the prospective borrower is unlikely to foresee; [my emphasis]
(d)the principal consequences for th e borrower arising from a failure to make 
payments under the agreement at the times required by the agreement 
including legal proceedings and where this is possibility, repossession of the 
borrowers home; 
(e)the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how 
and when this right may be exercised.
(3)Except where (4) applies, the adequate explanation and advice in (1) may be 
given orally or in writing.
(4)Where the matters in (2)(a), (b) or (e) are given orally or to th e prospective 
borrower in person, the explanation of the matters in (2)(c) and (d) and the 
advice required in (1)(b) must be given orally to the borrower.  
CONC 4.3.5R says
Where CONC 4.3.4 R applies to a firm, the firm must comply with the rules, and 
observe the guidance, in CONC 4.2 to the same extent as if it were the lender under an 
agreement to which those rules apply.
Having carefully considered everything provided, it seemed to me that there had been a lot 
of back and forth between the parties over whether Ratesetter calculated Mr S settlement 
figure in line with how the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (the regs) 
set out how a creditor should do so. I said that I was somewhat persuaded by Mr S 
argument that the loan fee was a cost of the credit, as it wasnt possible to have the loan 
without paying the fee and this is why it was included in the APR of 6.7%. 
I also pointed out that it was also arguable that the regs do require a reduction in the total 
cost of the credit in the event of the early settlement of a loan. And this was a position which 
appeared to be advocated by the European Court of Justice in Case C 383/18 , which 
considered the right of a consumer to a reduction in the total cost of the credit, consisting of 
the interest and the costs for the remaining duration of the contract under Directive 
2008/48/EC  Article 16(1).   
But even if the regs themselves didnt provide an automatic right to a reduction, or rebate, on 
all of the charges which made up the total charge for credit in the event of early settlement, I 
thought that the regs merely set out a formula for working out the maximum a P2P operator 
could charge in the event that a consumer wished to settle an agreement early. I made it 
clear that I didnt consider it to be an absolute standard. I explained that what I was required 
to do was decide what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr S case not just 
whether Ratesetter had acted in accordance with the regs.
In deciding whether Ratesetter acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S, I was mindful that 
CONC 4.3.4R requires a P2P operator to provide an adequate explanation of an agreement in order to place the prospective borrower in a position to assess whether the agreement is 
right for their needs and financial situation. The matters to take into account included the 
features of the agreement which may make it unsuitable for a particular type of use and the 
features of the agreement which would have a significant adverse effect on the customer in 
a way which they were unlikely to foresee. CONC 4.3.5R also refers back to the guidance 
which lenders must comply with and confirms an operator of an electronic system in relation 
to lending should comply with these provisions as if it were a lender.
CONC 4.2.7G lists the factors a lender should take into account when deciding the level and 
extent of an explanation. These factors, amongst other things, include the type of credit, the 
amount and duration and the actual and potential costs. I thought that in this case, even 
taking Ratesetter at its best, adding a loan fee to the amount borrowed and including the 
cost of it in the APR meant it was structuring Mr S loan in a way that differed from the way 
that most lenders did. It is not entirely clear to me why it did this  although I had my 
suspicions as to why. Nonetheless, Ratesetter argued that it structuring the loan in this way 
meant that Mr S was only ever entitled to a refund of a portion of the interest of £3,184.70 
which would have been paid if the loan ran to term, in the event of early settlement, rather 
than a portion of the £4,377.20 total charge for the credit.
I explained that as these early settlement provisions differed considerably from most lenders 
provisions, I would have expected Ratesetter to have adequately explained this to Mr S in a 
clear, fair and non-misleading way.
As I understood it, Ratesetter said that Mr S was made aware of early settlement provisions 
in the terms and conditions of the agreement he agreed to. It relied on this information as 
evidence of it having met its obligations to adequately explain in a clear fair and not 
misleading way the terms and conditions in relation to early settlement.
I went on to consider what Ratesetter said.
I started this section of my provisional decision by saying that whether the information 
Ratesetter had referred to ought reasonably to have led Mr S to understand he may still 
have had to pay a substantial amount of interest even if repaying his loan early, depended 
not only on the content of the information, but when it was provided and its prominence 
within the overall documentation given to him.
Ratesetter relied on the loan agreement Mr S signed but this would have been provided after 
it had been signed. And it hadnt provided all of the information Mr S was presented at the 
time. So I didnt know how prominent the information Ratesetter referred to and was now 
seeking to rely on, was within the plethora of documentation put before Mr S. And I didnt 
know whether Mr S actually had to read this information before confirming acceptance to 
being bound to them either. This was especially the case bearing in mind the speed at which 
this whole process is likely to have taken place.
In any event, I thought that even if I were to put to one side my concerns about whether the 
information in the terms and conditions were prominent enough, I didnt consider that the 
loan agreement set out the position as clearly as Ratesetter believed either. 
On the right to repay early the agreement states:
You have the right to repay your indebtedness under the Agreement(s) early, in whole or in
part. You can do so through your online account or by telephoning us on 020 3142 6226. To
settle in full you must pay the Amount of Credit and Loan Fee still outstanding on all the
Agreement(s) plus any unpaid interest and fees accrued up to and including the date of
Settlement.The section entitled Loan fee states:
£1,192.50
The Loan Fee is an upfront fee due and payable to RateSetter on the date the Agreement(s) 
are made. Payment of the Loan Fee and interest thereon at the Borrower Rate is included in 
your monthly payments but if you settle your Agreement(s) early, it will become immediately 
due and payable.
The section entitled Borrower rate states:
4.61% per annum fixed.
The Borrower Rate is a blended rate which combines the interest payable on all your 
Agreement(s) to the RateSetter Lenders and the Service Fee payable to us. The Borrower 
Rate is fixed for the duration of your Agreement(s) and is calculated and charged daily on 
the Amount of Credit and Loan Fee outstanding.
The section APR states:
6.7%
The APR is calculated on the assumption that the Agreement(s) will continue for their full 
duration and that you will perform your contractual obligations when required to do so under 
the terms of the Agreement(s).
And finally, the section entitled Your right of withdrawal states: 
You are entitled to withdraw from the Agreement(s) without having to give any reason within
14 days beginning with the day after the date of the Agreement(s). If you would like to
withdraw, you must do so from all the Agreement(s) simultaneously.
If you intend to withdraw from the Agreement(s), you must notify us in writing or orally. You
can do so by telephoning us on 020 3142 6226, by writing to 6th Floor, 55 Bishopsgate,
London, EC2N 3AS or by sending an email to contactus@ratesetter.com. If you withdraw 
from the Agreement(s) you must repay, without delay and no later than 30 calendar days 
beginning with the day after the day you gave us notice of withdrawal, the credit together 
with interest and fees at the Borrower Rate from the date the credit was provided until the 
date of repayment. Interest and fees accrue at £3.16 per day. You can make payment to 
RateSetter by bank transfer or debit card.
I thought that the most striking thing about the information set out was that the total amount 
of interest to be paid (and the only amount Ratesetter says Mr S was entitled to a 
proportionate rebate of in the event of early settlement), was nowhere to be seen in it, or 
anywhere else, for that matter, on the agreement. The closest the agreement came to 
indicating how much interest could accrue in the event of early settlement was the daily 
interest amount set out in the right of withdrawal section. I assumed Ratesetters expectation 
was that Mr S would work out the amount of interest due under the agreement from the rest 
of the information provided. 
Secondly, and most importantly of all it wasnt clearly and explicitly set out that Mr S wasnt 
entitled to a refund of any part of the loan fee in the event of cancellation. Indeed, the loan 
fee wasnt mentioned at all in the section regarding Mr S right of withdrawal. Ratesetter may 
have argued that by saying the loan fee would become immediately due and payable in the 
event of Mr S agreement being settled early, it met this obligation. But given what I had 
already said about a typical loan from most lenders not being structured in this way, I set out 
that I would have expected this section to made it clear that the loan fee was non-refundable 
in the event of cancellation. I also thought it was worth noting that this fee was included in the APR arrived at. And as an 
APR was generally considered the best way to compare the cost of credit and the significant 
impact of the loan fee being non-refundable, the loan fee would clearly have a more 
significant impact on those prospective borrowers unlikely to repay their loan over a full term. 
So, in my view, it was arguable that Ratesetter ought to have provided a prospective 
borrower with an adequate explanation that a loan structured in this way may not have been 
suitable for them if they intended to settle it early. After all most borrowers were unlikely to 
have had experience of agreements of this type (unless theyd entered into P2P agreements 
previously) and Ratesetter relied on these terms operating in a way which differed from the 
early settlement terms typically included in loan agreements. And I couldnt see any 
evidence of such a warning having been provided to Mr S.  
Of course, it was possible Ratesetter provided such information elsewhere through the sales 
process. But I didnt think that it was fair and reasonable to expect a consumer to go rooting 
through various segments of an application process, or a number of documents to piece 
together their obligations under an agreement. Especially as it was the operator of an 
electronic platform in relation to lendings responsibility to provide an adequate explanation 
of these matters.
So while I thought about what Ratesetter had said and what it had provided, I was minded to 
find that Ratesetter failed to adequately explain the early settlement terms and conditions 
and specifically that Mr S wouldnt be entitled to a rebate of the loan fee in the event the loan 
was settled early, in a clear fair and not misleading way.
Even though I was minded to conclude that Ratesetter didnt adequately explain the early 
settlement terms to Mr S, in a clear, fair and not misleading way, it didnt automatically follow 
that Mr S complaint should be upheld. That was because I still needed to consider whether 
Mr S lost out as a result of Ratesetters failure to provide adequate information to him. In 
other words, I needed to consider whether Mr S would have acted differently if Ratesetter 
had met its obligations to him.
Ive carefully considered what I thought would more likely than not have happened  if 
Ratesetter had met its obligations to Mr S.
In deciding this matter, I referred to what Mr S had said his reasons for applying for this loan 
were. Ratesetter hadnt provided any of the documentation relating to Mr S application. So I 
didnt know what if any purpose was recorded for this loan at the time Mr S made his 
application. Nonetheless, Mr S said that he took out this loan because he had short-term 
liquidity issues as a result of an unexpectedly delay to an investment proposal. 
Given Mr S settled the loan in full less than two months later and what Mr S had described 
about his financial position, I had no reason to disbelieve or doubt what he said on this 
matter. And, in these circumstances, it seemed to me that the early settlement terms and the 
fact that no part of the loan fee was refundable in the event of early repayment were likely to 
have been important to Mr S.  
Bearing in mind all the circumstances, I was minded to find that Mr S would more likely than 
not have decided against taking this loan and instead sought a loan elsewhere had he 
received an adequate explanation of the early settlement terms and these been properly 
explained to him. In reaching this conclusion, I was mindful that Ratesetter could have 
avoided any ambiguity over the status of the loan fee and ensured that Mr S was treated 
fairly and reasonably by simply setting out the total interest on the loan agreement and 
making it clear that this was the only charge Mr S was entitled to a rebate of. It was my view that some might argue that it suited Ratesetter to set out the agreement in 
the way it did as borrowers intending to settle early would be less likely to realise the 
implications at the outset and enter into a contract they wouldnt have done, had the terms 
been set out more clearly. Although that was not a finding I was making.
Instead what I did find was that as the regulated firm Ratesetter was the expert in this 
matter. And instead of doing what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and clearly 
setting out that the loan fee was non-refundable, Ratesetter instead chose to present this 
information in a more-opaque manner. It was then choosing to rely on this opaque 
explanation, which I considered to be inadequate bearing in mind it wasnt clearly 
highlighted, and potentially a gamut of pre-contract information, which may or may not have 
had to be read before being accepted. I didnt think this was fair and reasonable and this left 
me minded to find that Ratesetters actions led to Mr S entering into a loan agreement that 
he wouldnt have entered into had he received an adequate explanation of the early 
settlement terms. 
So overall and having considered everything, I did think that there was a reasonable 
argument for saying that Mr S was entitled to a proportionate refund of the loan fee because 
it was part of the total charge of the credit and upon early settlement of the agreement all 
elements of the total charge of the credit are eligible for a rebate. But I made it clear that I 
wasnt making that finding as reaching such a finding wasnt critical to my provisional 
determination of whether Ratesetter acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S.
This was because the non-refundable nature of the loan fee meant that this loan was 
structured in a way which meant the early settlement terms were different from most typical 
loans available on the market. And this left me minded to find that this was significant 
information Ratesetter ought to have provided Mr S with an adequate explanation on. Mr S 
circumstances and his reasons for taking out this loan in the first place also left me minded 
to find that he would not have taken this loan had the early settlement terms been 
adequately explained to him. 
So I concluded that Mr S entered into a loan agreement that he wouldnt have, had 
Ratesetter provided him with an adequate explanation. And as I thought he would have 
instead taken a loan with typical early settlement terms with a different provider, I was 
minded to find that Mr S lost out because Ratesetter didnt act fairly and reasonably towards 
him. I then went on to set out a method of putting things right in a way I considered to be fair 
and reasonable.    
Mr S response to my provisional decision
Despite being provided with an additional copy of my provisional decision, Mr S didnt 
respond or provide anything further for me to consider.
Ratesetters response to my provisional decision
Ratesetter responded disagreeing with my provisional decision. In summary it said:
It is confident that it complied with the FCA Principles and CONC provisions that I 
quoted in my provisional decision.
In relation to CONC 4.3.4R there was a number of references to the loan fee being 
added to the loan and it being immediately due and payable in the event the loan 
was settled early, in the documentation provided to Mr S.It its view, it isnt reasonable to characterize the process, or its communication to    
Mr S, as giving rise to an APR of around 40% rather than the 6.7% quoted on the 
loan agreement, nor unusual, opaque, inadequately explained or misleading.
It does not agree that the early settlement terms were different from most typical 
loans available on the market and asked for this claim to be substantiated.
That the legal advice I appeared to give is at best controversial and it would like 
clarification. If the practice of not providing a rebate of any part of the loan fee in the 
event of early settlement is illegal then this would be the end of the matter.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ratesetter for its further comments. I can confirm that Ive read and considered 
everything it has said and provided. 
Before I go any further, I do think that it would be useful for me to correct a couple of 
misunderstandings that Ratesetter appear to have taken from my provisional decision. 
Firstly, I did not provide any legal advice in my provisional decision. I merely pointed out that 
it could be argued that Mr S position  namely that a proportion of the of the loan fee should 
be refunded in the event a loan was settled early as it was part of the cost of the credit  
appears to have been shared by the European Court of Justice in the case I mentioned. I did 
not and do not find that Ratesetter acted illegally as this isnt what Im required to determine 
here. 
What I was and still am required to determine here is whether Ratesetter acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr S. I didnt consider it necessary to make a formal finding 
on whether Ratesetter breached the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004, 
in order determine these matters. And I remain satisfied that this is the case here.  
Secondly, Id also like to make it clear that I did not make a finding that Mr S loan had an 
effective APR of 40% - that is the argument Mr S made. And Ive not attempted to work out 
whether Mr S was correct in his assertion or what the APR for Mr S loan would have been 
had it originally been structured in the way that it ended up being repaid.
I now turn to Ratesetters comments regarding the documentation it says was provided to       
Mr S as part of the process of arranging this loan. In truth, Ratesetter has merely referred to 
information that was quoted in my provisional decision and which I was aware of at the time. 
And Im still not persuaded that the documentation Ratesetter is referring to, makes the 
position as clear as it thinks it does.
For example, the following is one of the extracts Ratesetter has referred to: 
The Loan Fee is an upfront fee due and payable to RateSetter on the date the Agreement(s) 
are made. Payment of the Loan Fee and interest thereon at the Borrower Rate is included in 
your monthly payments but if you settle your Agreement(s) early, it will become immediately 
due and payable.
The extract says the loan fee is due and payable on the date of the agreement. It then says 
that the fee (which is already due and payable on the date of the agreement), will become immediately due and payable in the event the loan is settled early. It isnt particular clear to 
me how a fee which is already due and payable can then again become due and payable. 
Furthermore, the next extract focuses on the total amount including the loan fee being 
payable in the event Mr S were to make all his payments to the end of the term of the loan. 
But it isnt in dispute that Mr S knew hed have to pay the loan fee if the loan ran to its 
scheduled end date. The question here isnt whether Mr S knew there was a loan fee, it is 
were the early settlement terms - and in particular the fact that there wouldnt be any rebate 
of the loan fee in the event that loan was settled early  adequately explained in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way to Mr S.
I accept that some of what Ratesetter has quoted in terms of other information provided 
throughout the journey, may more strongly hint that no part of the loan fee would be returned 
if the loan was paid early. But, in my view, there isnt anything which specifically and 
explicitly sets out that this is the case. 
And as said in my provisional decision, as the drafter of the agreement and the expert in this 
matter, Ratesetter had the opportunity to remove any ambiguity by clearly and explicitly 
stating, or including a warning saying, that early settlement wouldnt reduce the amount 
owed (over and above the capital advanced) and would simply result in not having to pay 
any further and as yet unaccrued interest. As it chose not to include such wording in the 
contract and bearing in mind why I think such information is of importance in this particular 
case, I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable for the benefit of any ambiguity to go 
in its favour in this particular instance.          
Finally, Ive seen that Ratesetter disagrees the early settlement terms on Mr S loan were 
different from those on most loans typically available on the market and it asked for me to 
substantiate this claim. I have to say that Im somewhat surprised by this. But to be clear the 
reason I believe Mr S loan to differ from most personal loans typically on the market is 
because most loans dont contain loan fees which are added to the borrowing. 
The total amount to be repaid for the overwhelming majority of personal loans typically 
available on the market merely consists of the principal capital amount advanced and 
interest. And as this is the case, the total amount repaid in the event of early settlement 
would be the capital amount advanced plus interest covering the period the borrower owed 
the lender money for. 
I am satisfied that adding such a significant (in comparison to the amount advanced), loan 
fee to the amount advanced and then not providing any sort of proportionate refund should 
the loan not run to its scheduled end date, isnt the way the overwhelming majority of 
personal loans typically available on the market operate. So I remain satisfied that the 
features of this loan, in relation to early settlement, operated differently from those a 
borrower might typically expect. And it was a feature of Mr S agreement which may have 
operated in a manner which would have a significant adverse effect on him in a way which 
he was unlikely to have foreseen. 
As this is the case and Ive already explained why I think Mr S wouldnt have proceeded with 
this loan had this been adequately explained to him, I remain satisfied that Ratesetter failed 
to act fairly and reasonably towards Mr S and that he lost out as a result. So Ratesetter 
needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what Ratesetter needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Ive already explained why I found that Mr S wouldnt have entered into this agreement and 
would more likely than not have instead entered one with an alternative provider with more typical charges for credit and early settlement terms, in the event Ratesetter met its 
obligations. Clearly, I cant just simply recreate the terms Mr S would more likely than not 
have obtained with an alternative lender, some three years after the event. So I need to find 
another way of directing Ratesetter to put things right for Mr S in a fair and reasonable way. 
Having given careful thought to the matter, I think that the most simple way for Ratesetter to 
put things right for Mr S this far down the line would be for it to simply work out what Mr S 
would have repaid to settle his loan when he did, if the loan fee had been part of the interest 
added, rather than a fee added to the loan, and then deduct this from the amount Mr S did 
pay to settle his loan. The extra Mr S paid, plus interest 8% simple per year* from the date 
Mr S repaid his loan to the date Ratesetter settles this complaint, should then be refunded to 
Mr S.    
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ratesetter to take off tax from this interest. Ratesetter 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 24 February 2022, 
Im upholding Mr S complaint. Retail Money Market Ltd should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman