DRN-4392973
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the delays caused by Advantage Insurance Company Ltd (AIC) 
failing to progress her claim.
What happened
Miss K had home insurance underwritten by AIC. She made a claim under her policy when 
an escape of water damaged her home. AIC accepted the claim and arranged for alternative 
accommodation while Miss Ks home dried out ready for repairs.
However, Miss K became increasingly upset by the time taken to progress her claim, and 
AICs failure to respond to her communication. She raised a complaint.
AIC apologised to Miss K after realising it had closed the claim in error. It offered £185 by 
way of apology. But Miss K wasn't happy with its offer. Thats because work still didnt 
progress as it shouldve done, and she didnt think the sum AIC offered adequately 
addressed the fact that shed not been able to live in her own home for longer than 
necessary. 
AIC offered to increase the compensation, but Miss K remained unhappy and brought the 
complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think AICs offer was enough in the overall circumstances. She 
explained that the effect on Miss K of being away from home was greater than AIC had 
appreciated, so our investigator recommended an increase to £500 in total.
Miss K still didnt think it was enough, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ks complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
our investigator. However, although I realise Miss K will be disappointed, I wont be asking 
AIC to pay more than £500 compensation. Ill explain why.
When I looked at the evidence, I concentrated on identifying where Miss K experienced 
more inconvenience and upset than she might otherwise have done if AIC had handled her 
claim better. Then, I thought about whether the compensation proposed was reasonable in 
those circumstances.
The escape of water caused damage to Miss Ks home which meant she had to cancel plans 
over the festive season and move into alternative accommodation while her home dried out. 
This was undoubtedly disruptive for her but at this point the disruption was caused by the 
escape of water, not by AIC. 
AIC certified Miss Ks home had dried out by mid-February, so Id have expected AIC to 
progress the claim. Instead, AIC mistakenly closed the claim.
It wasnt until mid- to late-April when AIC realised its mistake and re-opened the claim. So, 
Im satisfied that was around two months of avoidable delays.
If work had started at this point, further avoidable disruption could have been prevented. But 
the evidence shows that two more months of delays followed, caused by communication 
problems between AIC and its agents. Some minor delays are understandable but, given the 
mistakes already made, Id have expected AIC to make sure Miss K didnt experience further 
avoidable delays. 
It was at this point AIC issued its final response to Miss Ks complaint, so I havent 
considered anything that happened after June 2023. In summary, the evidence indicates that 
Miss K experienced a total of four months of avoidable delays. That also means she was 
away from her own home for around four months longer than necessary. Given the 
circumstances shes described, I can understand that Miss K wouldve found that difficult, so 
Ive taken that into consideration when deciding on the amount of compensation warranted.
As well as the delays, Miss K says AIC failed to respond to her on many occasions, didnt 
make the calls it promised to, and failed to respond with any urgency when she expressed 
her concern about the delays. Thinking specifically about the first two months of delay, I can 
understand why Miss K found this distressing. Nothing was happening with her claim, she 
couldnt move back home, and no one from AIC was communicating with her. The evidence 
indicates that AIC let Miss K down here.
Returning now to the issue of alternative accommodation, I said it was the escape of water 
that meant Miss K had to move out of her home. To begin with she stayed with family, after 
which AIC sourced accommodation. The evidence shows that Miss K accepted the 
accommodation, and she was fully aware of the property description. AIC said limited 
properties were available and the policy doesnt require it to source a like-for-like property. I 
accept that. However, the complaint here is that Miss K needed to stay in the temporary 
accommodation for a lot longer than she shouldve done because of AICs service shortfalls. 
Miss K didnt think £500 compensation was enough for the nine months she was unable to 
live at home. When broken down to a daily rate, she said it didnt meet her expectations 
considering the delays and constant chasing shed had to do.
Im sorry to hear about the effect AICs mistakes had on Miss K and that it meant she 
needed to live away from her home for longer than necessary. That cant have been easy. 
But I must bear in mind that the initial disruption was caused by the escape of water and, 
once the claim was back on track, the repair work wouldve always taken the time it did 
regardless of the delays in between. I can only fairly hold AIC responsible for the additional, 
avoidable disruption it caused. In light of the overall inconvenience, upset and delays during 
the four months when the claim didnt progress as it should have, Im satisfied that £500 
compensation is fair and reasonable.   
Finally, I understand that the claim wasnt finalised when Miss K brought her complaint to us, 
and she has further concerns. My remit is to address the complaint up to the date AIC issued 
its final response, so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on additional issues. If 
Miss K remains unhappy with how AIC continued to handle her claim, shed need to raise 
that with AIC directly in the first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ks complaint and Advantage Insurance Company Ltd must:
pay Miss K a further £315 compensation, bringing the total to £500, for the service 
shortfalls in handling her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman