DRN-2074557
The complaint
Mr R complains about EUI Limited, trading as Admiral, and the advice they provided when 
he notified them about his involvement in a road traffic accident (RTA).
What happened
Mr R was involved in an RTA where a third-party vehicle reversed into the front of his car, 
causing damage that needed to be repaired. So, Mr R called Admiral, who provided his 
motor insurance to register the accident.
Mr R explained the accident circumstances and based on this description Admiral decided 
the mark the claim as non fault, meaning they believed the third party held full liability. As 
the claim was marked non fault, Admiral gave Mr R the option of pursuing his claim through 
a third party, who Ill refer to as A. They explained this option meant Mr R wouldnt need to 
pay his excess of £450. But they explained Mr R could still make a claim through them 
directly if he wished. Mr R chose to use this option, and the claim was passed to A on the 
same call.
But Mr R encountered difficulties when dealing with A. He was made aware that A provided 
their services on a credit hire basis, meaning he was liable for costs in certain scenarios. He 
didnt think Admiral made him aware of this on the initial call, so he raised a complaint.
Mr R complained that Admiral advised A would provide a replacement car rather than a hire 
car. He thought this was misleading and explained that if Admiral had explained A would 
provide a hire car, he wouldnt have chosen this option. So, he thought Admiral were 
responsible for the difficult situation he now found himself in with A. And he wanted Admiral 
to refund his policy premium and compensate him for the stress and anxiety hed been 
caused.
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. They thought theyd made Mr R reasonably aware of his 
options on the call and that it was Mr Rs choice to use A. So, they didnt think they were 
responsible for any issues he now had with A. Because of this, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything further. Mr R remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He acknowledged that 
Admiral hadnt used the phrase hire car and that this wasnt disputed by Admiral. But he 
explained the script Admiral use was a business process so not one he was able to ask 
them to change. And after listening to the call, he thought Admiral had fairly explained the 
options Mr R had available to him and he was satisfied it was Mr Rs own choice to use A to 
progress his claim. He explained he wouldve expected A to explain to Mr R the terms of 
their agreement and that if Mr R wasnt happy, he couldve returned to Admiral to make a 
claim through his own policy. And he didnt do so. So, he didnt think Admiral needed to do 
anything more.
Mr R didnt agree. He explained his belief that Admiral didnt explain a hire car would be 
provided as they received a referral fee for every customer they put through to A. So, he 
thought Admiral had put cash before customer and he didnt think this was fair. He 
maintained his view that Admiral hadnt been clear on the call and hadnt taken into 
consideration the stress he was under when making a decision at the time. As Mr R didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
First, I want to recognise the impact Mr R has been caused. Ive no doubt Mr R agreed to 
use A under the assumption the claim would be progressed without any complications. I 
understand being involved in an RTA is stressful, and comprehensive insurance is taken out 
to make situations like this easier. So, I appreciate why Mr R is unhappy that his situations 
has been made even more stressful and upsetting and I can understand why, with hindsight, 
hes unhappy Admiral offered him the chance to use A in the first place. But for me to agree 
that Admiral have done something wrong, Id have to be sure they purposefully misled about 
the service A provide. And in this case, I dont think they did.
Ive listened to the recording of the call between Mr R and Admiral. Admiral clearly set out 
two options available to Mr R. They explained the option to use A was a non fault option. 
They explained the benefits this option provided, including not having to pay an excess and 
the replacement car being similar to his own. These were all benefits he wouldnt have been 
entitled to had he made a claim through Admiral directly as this would be utilising his own 
insurance policy.
Admiral also explained he could continue to make a claim through them directly, but it was 
made reasonably clear he wouldnt be entitled to the same benefits as he would using the 
services of A. And Mr R clearly stated he wanted to proceed with the non fault option, using 
A. So, I cant say Admiral led Mr R into choosing As service.
But Mr R has explained he wouldnt have chosen this option if Admiral had explained hed be 
given a hire care by A. So thats why he feels misled. 
But I dont think the information Admiral provided was intentionally misleading. And I dont 
think it was unfair. When Mr R used As services, he wouldve received a car to replace his 
own, while the repairs were ongoing. So, I dont think classifying this car as a replacement 
is unreasonable. On the call, Admiral explain on several occasions that A would discuss the 
terms of the non fault service they provided with Mr R directly. And Mr R was transferred to 
A on this call. So, I think Admiral made Mr R aware there was further information hed need 
to understand when speaking to A.
As it was A who provided Mr R with the replacement car, I think the onus was on them to 
explain to Mr R about the credit hire and how it worked. Im unable to say for certain whether 
they did so. But I dont think its fair for me to hold Admiral accountable for any errors A 
made as theyre a separate third party. 
If A made Mr R aware of the credit hire, which Id expect them to do, I think Admiral had 
made it reasonably clear to him that he had the option of claiming through his own 
insurance. But he didnt do so and continuing using As services. 
I can understand why, with hindsight, Mr R now wishes hed made a claim through Admiral 
directly. But, its my role to consider the service Admiral provided how this impacted the decision Mr R made at the time of the initial call. And I think the information they provided 
was both fair and reasonable. So, I dont think they need to do anything further, 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about EUI Limited, trading 
as Admiral. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman