DRN-4140055
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by an appointed representative of TenetConnect 
Limited, trading as Tenet Network Services (Tenet) to transfer the benefits from his defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss. Tenet is responsible for answering the complaint, so Ill just refer to it 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr B held benefits in the BSPS. In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be 
examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the employers 
DB pension scheme) from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide 
compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when their employer 
becomes insolvent. 
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
The RAA was signed and confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out 
shortly after. Updated transfer valuations were then provided by the BSPS trustees to 
qualifying members, reflecting the improved funding position  with the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs pension being £538,281.45. And in October 2017 members 
of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them the options to either stay in 
the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere. 
Mr B approached Tenet to discuss his pension. Tenet completed a fact-find to gather 
information about Mr Bs circumstances and objectives. Amongst other things it noted that 
Mr B was 50, in good health and married to Mrs B who was also 50. They were both 
employed. And Tenet recorded that their current income was more than sufficient to meet 
their outgoings.
In addition to the benefits he held in the BSPS Mr B was also a member of his employers 
new defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. He and his employer were making 
combined contributions equivalent to 12% of his salary and the value was said to be around 
£16,000. Mrs B also held a DB scheme pension with a normal retirement age of 60. Tenet 
recorded conflicting information about what income shed receive from that scheme. The 
fact-find recorded an expected annual income of £17,916. But the advisers written notes 
referred to this as providing an anticipated £9,000. While a later document talked about an 
income £13,655 per year in todays terms. 
Tenet said Mr and Mrs B were looking to potentially retire between age 55 and 57. It said 
they ideally wanted a joint income of £30,000 per year in retirement but needed at least 
£25,000. It said flexibility and access to income lump sums were important. And it also said 
Mr B was drawn to alternative death benefits a transfer would offer for Mrs B and his family.
On 27 November 2017, Tenet advised Mr B to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension with a named provider and invest in a model portfolio that it said matched his 
attitude to risk. The suitability report said Tenet did not believe that the level of growth 
required to enable Mr B to obtain benefits at retirement equivalent to those of the scheme 
pension, known as the critical yield, was achievable so it would not be possible to achieve 
greater guaranteed pension benefits. But Tenet still recommended a transfer. It said this was 
because it would give Mr B improved lump sum death benefits and secure the CETV now 
and give him control over his pension, which he wanted given his lack of trust in his 
employer. It also would provide him flexibility to achieve his retirement objectives. Tenet also 
recommended that Mr B opt to take ongoing servicing of his pension, for an additional cost.
Mr B complained in April 2022 to Tenet. He said that hed received a letter from the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), making him aware he may have received 
unsuitable advice. So, he wanted Tenet to investigate and compensate him if he had been 
incorrectly advised.
Tenet responded in September 2022. It said, at that stage of its investigation it proposed to 
make Mr B an offer and calculate if he was due redress under the methodology prescribed 
by the regulator. It said it would need to instruct a third party to carry out the calculation, 
which could take some time.
In December 2022, Tenet confirmed to Mr B a loss calculation had been completed, 
provided a copy and explained this showed that he had not incurred a loss due to the 
transfer. So, it said no redress payment was due. The loss calculation was based on him 
retiring at age 55, as Tenet said hed taken tax-free cash from his pension in 2022.
Mr B asked our service to consider his complaint. He was concerned Tenets calculations 
could potentially be incorrect. So, he wanted our service to consider his complaint about the 
advice hed received and said he was looking for fair compensation for the unsuitable 
advice. He clarified that while he had drawn tax-free cash from his pension, he hadnt begun 
taking a regular income. He added that it wasnt ever his intention to retire at age 55 and he 
was still working. And he has told us, while he has since taken tax-free cash, this was due to 
the advice he received from Tenet and it telling him accessing his benefits from age 55 was 
a viable option. And he says if he hadnt been advised by Tenet to transfer, he wouldnt have 
accessed his pension until retiring, which wouldve been at the normal scheme retirement 
age.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He noted Tenet had said the level of 
growth required to replicate the benefits being given up was unlikely to be achieved. And the 
Investigator agreed with this, and that Mr B was likely to receive pension benefits of a lower 
overall value as a result. The Investigator also said that the evidence suggested the options 
of moving Mr Bs pension to the BSPS2 and PPF had likely been portrayed negatively by 
Tenet, rather than objectively. In addition, given Mr B was still some years from retiring, and 
his plans could change, the Investigator didnt think there were any reasons that meant 
transferring at the time was in his best interests. He also considered some of the information 
that Tenet had used in its models to support a transfer to have been unreliable  in particular 
in relation to potential remaining liabilities, expenditure and state pension entitlement in the 
event Mr and Mrs B had retired early. 
So, the Investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said Tenet should carry 
out a further redress calculation  on the basis Mr B wouldve likely joined the BSPS2 and taken benefits at age 65  and compensate Mr B for any losses hed incurred as a result of 
the unsuitable advice.
Tenet responded and said it largely agreed with the Investigators findings but did not agree 
with how the loss calculation should be completed. It said Mr B had taken tax-free cash from 
his pension at age 55, so it disagreed that any calculation should be on the basis of him not 
taking the retirement benefits until age 65. It also said it believed the loss calculation it had 
already carried out, which showed no loss, was done correctly, so Tenet didnt think a further 
calculation was required. And it said it would like an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
The regulator has since developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator. The calculator was 
developed for the BSPS consumer redress scheme. But it can still be used to carry out 
calculations in non-scheme cases, like Mr Bs complaint with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. We asked Tenet if it would carry out a new calculation, using the FCA BSPS-
specific calculator as this is what an Ombudsman was likely to require. But Tenet said its 
position had not changed and it did not think a new calculation was required.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
When Tenet first responded to Mr Bs complaint, it told him it was willing to calculate if he 
had suffered a loss and potentially offer compensation. While it did note that this was without 
admission of liability at that stage, it didnt argue that the advice it had given was right for 
Mr B. And following our Investigators opinion, which was that the advice wasnt suitable for 
Mr B or in his best interests, Tenet said it largely agreed with the Investigators findings and 
its only dispute was in relation to what the appropriate way to put things right was. So, it 
seems reasonable to conclude that Tenet accepts that the advice provided to Mr B was 
unsuitable.
With that in mind, I dont need to address the suitability of Tenets advice to Mr B in detail. 
And will largely focus on how matters should be put right. However, for the avoidance of 
doubt, I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was unsuitable. 
The critical yields appear unlikely to have been achievable, which Tenet acknowledged and 
agreed with in its recommendation. So, Mr B was unlikely to improve on the guaranteed 
pension hed have been entitled to. 
While Mr B mightve discussed preferring to retire early, he was still several years away from 
retiring. I think, when asked, most people would say they would like to retire early. But I dont 
think any thoughts he mightve had on this were finalised  and Mr B has confirmed he is still 
working and doesnt have plans to retire. I also dont think, even if he had intended to retire 
early that he necessarily needed to transfer for flexibility. Mr B couldve taken benefits early 
under the DB scheme and wouldve also had access to flexible benefits through his employers new DC scheme which he was contributing to. Mrs B was entitled to guaranteed 
benefits from age 60. And when combined, these couldve still allowed them to meet their 
stated needs in retirement. Although like our Investigator, Im not sure how accurate the 
assumptions around their needs were. In any event though, as I dont think Mr Bs retirement 
plans were set in stone, I think it was too soon for an irreversible decision to transfer out of 
his DB scheme to be considered in his best interests. Particularly when he had the option of 
joining the BSPS2, which wouldve meant he retained the option to transfer out at a later 
date if his circumstances required it.
As a pensions primary purpose is to meet the holders needs in retirement, I dont think 
transferring for alternative death benefits was in Mr Bs interest. The DB scheme would 
provide a spouses pension, which was guaranteed and would escalate, that couldve been 
useful to Mrs B if Mr B pre-deceased her. And any legacy left through a pension was unlikely 
to be the same as the CETV, as it would be reduced by any benefits Mr B drew in his 
lifetime.
While Mr B was likely to have been, quite understandably, concerned about what had 
happened with his pension up to that point, I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant transferring was in his best interests  as the BSPS2 and PPF wouldve still provided 
him with guaranteed pension benefits, which he was unlikely to improve upon by 
transferring.
So overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Bs best interest to give 
up his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Mr B wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to 
remain in the DB scheme.
As Ive noted though, Tenet said it largely accepted the Investigators findings on this. And 
the dispute now is around how to put things right. So, Ill focus in the rest of this decision on 
how to do so.
Mr B has said he is seeking fair compensation for the poor advice. 
Where we think an error has been made the aim of any recommendation we make is to put 
the impacted party, as far as possible, in the position they wouldve been in. Mr B cant re-
join the BSPS. So, the aim is to put him back, as close as possible, to the financial position 
he would have been in at retirement had he remained in the DB scheme. The FCA 
developed and has set out a methodology for calculating redress where unsuitable advice 
has been given to transfer from a DB scheme (like the BSPS). And as I said above the FCA 
has more recently developed a calculator specifically for situations such as this. 
The BSPS-specific redress calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed 
by the FCA with benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the 
subsequent buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are 
updated regularly. This information cant be changed by firms.
To put it simply, this looks at the expected cost at that time of replacing the benefits the DB 
scheme wouldve provided  using assumptions which the FCA sets. It then compares that 
with the current value of Mr Bs pension (including any benefits that have already taken). If 
the cost of replacing the benefits that were given up is greater, then the redress would be the 
difference between the two. If the value of Mr Bs current pension (and benefits drawn) is 
more than it would cost to replicate the benefits given up because of the advice, then he 
would be in a better financial position and no redress would be due.
The calculator was developed by the FCA to ensure consistency in the calculations and to ensure consumers receive fair and quicker redress. It also reduces the burden on firms by 
removing the need for actuarial support in most calculations. And the calculator output was 
intended to be easily understood, to provide reassurance to consumers, like Mr B, that any 
redress owed to him has been calculated fairly.
I think using the FCAs BSPS-specific calculator is now the most appropriate way to 
calculate the redress here. Tenet says it has already carried out a redress calculation in 
2022 under the rules applicable at that time. So, it doesnt think it needs to do this again. 
And it has also suggested that it doesnt have to use the FCAs BSPS specific calculator. But 
Mr B did not accept its initial calculation and questioned some if the assumptions were 
correct. As Ill go on to explain, I dont think they all were correct. So, because of this, and 
because the matter has not been resolved and Mr B requested our service consider his 
complaint  as he is entitled to do  I do think it is appropriate for an updated redress 
calculation to be completed. It is for me to determine what redress would be appropriate 
here and that can include a direction to use the FCAs calculator. And Im directing Tenet to 
use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator. 
Tenet says that because Mr B drew tax-free cash at age 55, the redress calculation should 
be based on the assumption hed have taken benefits from the DB scheme at that point 
(which is what its previous calculation assumed). 
The FCA sets out in DISP App 4 some of the assumptions to be used when calculating 
redress for unsuitable DB transfer advice. This says that a business should presume that a 
consumer wouldve drawn benefits at the normal scheme retirement age of the DB scheme. 
It goes on to explain under which circumstances that presumption could be rebutted. But it 
says that the withdrawal of tax-free cash is unlikely to be sufficient for this purpose. It also 
says the presumption is unlikely to be overcome if the consumers intentions were potentially 
influenced by the advice. Here Mr B has drawn tax-free cash from his pension. But he hasnt 
begun taking other benefits and is still working. And hes said retiring early wasnt really his 
intention, and it was the advice from Tenet that has influenced his actions. 
Taking all of this into account, I think it is fair here to presume that but for the advice, Mr B 
would not have accessed pension benefits from his DB scheme until the normal scheme 
retirement age of 65. I also think its fair to assume, with that in mind, that if hed been 
advised not to transfer, he have likely joined the BSPS2. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr B 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he 
needed to. Also, under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of his pension 
at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement 
(even if one was ultimately taken). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment 
was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, the calculation of redress that Im 
requiring Tenet to complete, should be on the basis of these assumptions.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Tenet to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. And I think he likely wouldnt have accessed pension benefits before 
the normal scheme retirement age. So, compensation should be based on the schemes 
normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
I require Tenet therefore to undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. Tenet must use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Tenet based 
the inputs into the calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tenet should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts Tenets offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tenet may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require TenetConnect Limited, trading as Tenet Network 
Services to carry out the steps outlined in the putting things right section of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman