DRN-3410443
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy CB Payments Ltd havent reimbursed money she lost as a result of a 
scam.
What happened
Beginning in late 2019, Ms C invested significant amounts of money with an overseas 
investment firm. By early 2020, she became involved with a second investment firm and 
made a series of payments totalling well over £150,000 to it up to the end of June 2020. Of 
those payments around £26,000 were made using the services of CB Payments and are the 
subject of this complaint. 
The second investment company appears to have denied requests by Ms C to withdraw her 
money, citing agreements shed apparently entered into, before asking for further deposits 
and eventually claiming that her investment was lost and there were no funds left. At this 
point, Ms C suspected shed been the victim of a scam and reported the matter to her bank. 
A number of other complaints related to the same set of circumstances have already been 
decided by our service, notably a complaint against Ms Cs bank which related, in part, to the 
same transactions which credited her CB Payments account and are the subject of this 
dispute. 
CB Payments are an FCA-authorised electronic money institution. Coinbase UK were an 
unregulated entity providing cryptocurrency accounts and services. When Ms C opened an 
account with Coinbase, she actually entered into an agreement with the two different 
entities.
In practice, this means that when Ms C made the disputed transactions from her bank 
account to fund her Coinbase account, she first credited those funds into an electronic 
money account provided by CB Payments. From there she purchased cryptocurrency which 
was credited to one of her Coinbase UK cryptocurrency accounts. Finally, that 
cryptocurrency was sent off the Coinbase platform to a blockchain address, presumably 
controlled by the fraudsters.
When Ms C complained to Coinbase that it hadnt prevented her loss, it said that as shed 
carried out the transactions herself, she was responsible for them. It also noted a warning 
had been published about the fraudulent investment company in February 2020, but it said 
that it had no connection with the fraudsters and would not have known that the destination 
of Ms Cs funds was controlled by them. 
Ms C referred the matter to our service. In summary, she argued that CB Payments had 
failed in its obligations to protect her from financial harm from fraud  particularly by failing to 
adequately carry out due diligence. 
CB Payments, in its submissions to our service, said Ms Cs complaint was about 
cryptocurrency being sent to a third party. As such it was a complaint about the 
(unregulated) activities carried out by Coinbase UK, rather than those carried out by CB 
Payments. So, it didnt think our service had the power to consider the complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. They were of the view that we could consider 
the elements of Ms Cs complaint that related to the activities carried out by CB Payments, 
but not those carried out by Coinbase UK (including any complaint about the ultimate 
transfer of cryptocurrency). And, after considering the actions of CB Payments, they didnt 
think it had made a mistake  as it had no grounds to believe that Ms C was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud and neither was it obliged to make the kind of enquiries Ms C 
suggested.
In response Ms C provided lengthy submissions. Ive considered everything she has said 
carefully and summarised her response below:
- A significant amount of good industry practice and regulators rules and guidance 
demonstrates that CB Payments has a duty to protect her from financial harm from 
fraud, particularly as a vulnerable customer.
- Such obligations are particularly important in the case of CB Payments, because it is 
closely linked to a business offering high risk cryptocurrency trading (to the extent 
that the existence of the two entities was unknown to her).
- CB Payments, as experts in this area and being well aware of the risks, ought, at an 
early point, to have undertaken proper checks and spoken to her about the activity 
she was intending to carry out, including whether she was being coerced into making 
the payments. Had it done so, her loss would have been prevented because she 
would have listened to any warning it, as a regulated business, would have given. 
She notes that longstanding guidance issued by the regulator states that providing a 
warning about the risk of fraud is not considered investment advice.
- The investigators view is far too simplistic to provide a satisfactory answer to the 
complaint and neither references the various obligations CB Payments has nor is 
correct in relation to the extent of those obligations  particularly in relation to 
establishing the intended use of the account. 
- Neither does it properly take into account the fact she was an innocent victim of a 
scam, rather than an experienced investor and she disagrees that the starting point 
for the investigators considerations should be that she is responsible for payments 
she has made. 
- Our investigation shouldnt be limited to considering the role of CB Payments, but 
also whether the Financial Conduct Authority is properly overseeing CB Payments. 
- Shes provided significant submissions to give further background information to the 
scam and her personal circumstances, as well as the nature and severity of her 
vulnerability. 
I note Ms Cs comments that she wishes to be involved in this stage of the complaint and be 
an informed participant. While I understand this desire, Ms C has provided significant 
submissions to our service and, at this stage, it is my role to decide the complaint. I havent 
found that I need any further information from Ms C and, as such, I havent been in touch 
with her in advance of my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered all of Ms Cs submissions carefully. I know that she will be disappointed that I 
havent commented on each and every point. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to Ms C, but 
rather, as an ombudsman, it is my role to address only those points which I think are 
relevant to her complaint.
I also extend my sympathy to Ms C  shes clearly been through a devastating experience 
and I dont dispute that she was vulnerable when the events in question took place. 
As a preliminary matter, its important to state that my considerations are limited to the 
actions of CB Payments. The actions of the FCA in its regulation of CB Payments, as well as 
any wider points about the way in which it is regulated are outside of my remit. And, while 
Ms C might not have appreciated that she was entering into an agreement with two different 
entities, that doesnt change the fact she was, a fact that was made clear in the terms and 
conditions. 
One of Ms Cs chief contentions is that the starting point set out by the investigator  that it is 
her, rather than CB Payments, that (in the first instance) is responsible for transactions shes 
authorised, even in circumstances where she has been the innocent victim of fraud and was 
vulnerable, is incorrect.
Though, as Ill go onto discuss in more detail, this is a starting point, it none the less (taking 
into account everything Ms C has said) is an accurate statement as regards to Ms Cs 
position in law. The relevant regulations here  the PSRs 2017 make no exception for 
account holders who have been tricked, no matter how cruelly, into carrying out such 
transactions. Neither does vulnerability invalidate authorisation.
The Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code)  a voluntary code  does 
somewhat reverse that position  the presumption being that a business will be responsible 
for a customers loss due to scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But 
CB Payments are not a signatory to the CRM Code and it is therefore not relevant to this 
complaint.
 
As I say, the starting point is that Ms C is responsible for the payments which took place. 
She quite rightly points out that various regulators rules and guidance, good industry 
practice (as well as whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint) means, 
in certain circumstances, there might be occasions when, despite transactions having been 
authorised by the account holder, the business is, fairly and reasonably, responsible for 
refunding them. 
The question here, quite simply, is whether any such circumstance applies.
Ms C has made extensive submissions in relation to demonstrating that she was vulnerable 
at the time and that the investment company she was dealing with were a scam. I dont 
dispute either of these points. What is in dispute is whether CB Payments ought to have 
known this at the time.
Ms C appears to argue both that any financial business should make fairly detailed enquiries 
of any new account holder and that there were specific reasons for CB Payments to do this  
both because of their links to, and involvement in, cryptocurrency trading and because she 
was vulnerable in general and to this type of scam in particular. 
Im afraid I cant agree there is a general obligation on a financial business to make 
reasonably detailed enquiries of each new account holder. Relevant anti-money laundering 
obligations require the business to identify a customer and, in some circumstances, 
understand the nature and purpose of the new business relationship. While the latter obligation might seem useful to Ms C, in practice this means little more than, for example, 
establishing that an account will be used as a personal account or, perhaps, going to be 
used for investing. And, at the very least here for there to be any chance for the scam to be 
uncovered, CB Payments would have had to have asked which business she intended to 
pay and, perhaps, established the circumstances surrounding the payments.
Neither do I think CB Payments is obligated to go further than any other financial business 
because of its relationship to Coinbase and the risk that its customers may fall victim to fraud 
involving cryptocurrency. Im not aware of (and neither do any submissions provided by Ms 
C provide evidence of) any guidance or good industry practice which suggests it has 
additional obligations. And, I think such an obligation would likely be onerous if it required 
CB Payments to make fairly detailed enquiries of every new account holder. In fact, rather 
than the additional obligations which Ms C suggests, there are generally fewer obligations on 
electronic money institutions like CB Payments, compared to banks (an example being 
section 4.5 of the 2015 FCA publication Financial crime: a guide for firms, which Ms C 
references in her submissions, which, isnt applicable to CB Payments). 
Ive gone on to think about Ms Cs characteristics that would have been reasonably known to 
CB Payments at the time. Again, there is no obligation for it to find out about her personal 
circumstances, just as there isnt an obligation for a bank to do the same when opening an 
account. It would have known little more than her personal details provided on application  
none of which (including her age at the time) would have given any indication that she was 
at particular risk of financial harm from fraud. 
It follows that I havent found that CB Payments had an obligation to contact Ms C and 
discuss the use and purpose of her account (at least in the detail that would have been 
required to uncover the scam).
The next question Ive considered is whether the activity which took place on Ms Cs CB 
Payments account was so unusual and remarkable that it ought to have been concerned 
that she was at risk of financial harm from fraud and therefore intervened and provided a 
warning about scams before letting the transactions proceed (something I accept it could 
have done without providing investment advice).
Ive seen nothing to suggest and neither does it seem likely that CB Payments (or Coinbase 
UK) would have known that the eventual destination of the funds was a fraudulent 
investment. Neither would it have had any concerns about the source of Ms Cs funds  
which had come from an account held in her own name. 
Ms Cs first deposit into her CB Payments account was £10,000. This amount was then used 
to purchase cryptocurrency of around the same value. While these are by no means 
insignificant sums, I dont think the activity would have appeared particularly unusual to CB 
Payments. The deposit of funds and immediate purchase of cryptocurrency is how CB 
Payments customers are likely to use their accounts  theres little value or benefit from 
simply depositing funds into a CB Payments account. Its primary purpose is to facilitate the 
purchase of cryptocurrency. And, without any previous account history to compare her 
actions against, CB Payments wouldnt be in a position to think that the transactions were 
unusual for Ms C, or represented a change from how she normally operated her accounts. 
The activity which took place after the initial deposit was similar in nature, albeit with smaller 
deposits and subsequent purchases of cryptocurrency. So, I cant see any reason CB 
Payments would be concerned about this activity either. 
  
So, I dont think any of the activity which took place should have caused CB Payments 
concern and without a basis on which to say it ought to have provided a warning or 
questioned Ms Cs actions  either when she opened her account or after any of the subsequent transactions, theres no basis for concluding that it should have prevented her 
loss.
Whether such an intervention or warning would, in any case, have made a difference to Ms 
Cs decision to continue with the payments is, given my findings above, not determinative. 
However, I do note that Ms C was already aware of an FCA warning about the fraudulent 
investment company when she made further payments to the fraudsters through CB 
Payments. So, its reasonable to think that a warning which advised Ms C to check the 
regulated status of the fraudulent investment business (as might be expected where a 
financial business identifies a risk of an investment scam) is unlikely to have deterred Ms C.
Finally, given the nature of these transactions (with their eventual destination being an 
anonymous blockchain address), there was no reasonable prospect, nor practical method, of 
the funds being recovered. 
I know Ms C wont agree with my decision and I recognise that she is a victim of crime, but I 
havent found that the regulated financial business here  CB Payments Ltd  is responsible 
for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman