DRN-1193974
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that he didn't receive notification from Starling Bank Limited about 
exceeding his overdraft limit. He didn't have access to the banking app as he had lost his 
phone and believes Starling should have emailed and written to him as well as sending 
message through the app and via text. 
What happened
Mr W had a bank account with Starling.  Starling is an app based bank which means 
customers accounts are operated via the banking app. Mr W's account had an agreed 
overdraft limit of £750. Any unauthorised borrowing via the overdraft incurs interest charges 
on the account. 
As early as January 2018, Mr W exceeded the agreed overdraft and overdraft charges were 
incurred. Mr W brought the account back within the agreed limit. This was a regular 
occurrence on the account.  In August 2018 Mr W lost his phone. And around the same time 
he stopped crediting or using the account. But as it had already exceeded the agreed 
overdraft limit, interest charges were added to the account. During this time, Mr W was 
contacted via the app about him being over the limit and told action was needed. 
Mr W got in touch with Starling in April 2019 as he noticed his credit history had been 
adversely affected as he hadn't been funding his account. He explained he didn't have 
access to the app as he had changed phones and wanted to make a payment arrangement. 
A message was sent through to the collections team but contact not made. Mr W made a 
complaint, but didn't receive a response, so asked us to investigate. 
We notified Starling of the complaint and it issued a final response. It didn't think it had done 
anything wrong in relation to the account status but paid £25 for the delay in responding 
to the complaint. Our investigator was satisfied Starling had taken necessary steps in 
sending Mr W messages via the app to notify him of the account status, particularly as it was 
an app based bank. Mr W asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He believes 
it should have tried harder to contact him about the account by using email or other means. 
And he says Starling now does use email, so it has changed it processes, showing it should 
have contacted him by other means. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr W feels strongly about his complaint. But I would only ask a business to 
amend credit records if they weren't accurate, or if the business hadn't acted fairly or 
reasonably in how it had handled the account. 
Mr W had regularly used and exceeded his overdraft limit. And Starling has provided 
evidence to show that it had always contacted him about the overdraft and any applicable 
charges via the app. So I'm satisfied Mr W was aware this was how Starling communicated 
such information. It is unfortunate Mr W lost his phone. But he knew his account was an app based account.  I find it was his responsibility to ensure he downloaded the app when he  
replaced his phone and notify Starling of his new contact details. As he didn't do that Starling 
was sending messages to a number that was no longer his. I don't find Starling did anything 
wrong. 
I understand Mr W believes Starling could have tried other methods. I agree it could. But I 
don't think that means it should. Starling offers app based banking and that is how the 
accounts are operated and managed. I'm satisfied it was following its usual processes and 
procedures for notifying Mr W of the arrears on his account. That it now also corresponds by 
email doesn't mean it did anything wrong before. 
Overall, it was Mr W's responsibility to ensure he had access to his account and update his 
contact details. It was also his responsibility to ensure his account was operated within the 
agreed limits. I find no basis on which to ask Starling to amend his credit history. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman