DRN-4228089
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that Unum Ltd (Unum) unfairly declined a 
claim made on its income protection policy. 
Miss J, who is a director of R, brings the complaint on Rs behalf.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
R held a group income protection policy for the benefit of its employees, underwritten by 
Unum. This pays a benefit if an employee is unable to work due to illness or injury, with a 
deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks. 
In December 2019, Rs director, who Ill refer to as Mr J, suffered a heart attack and as a 
result became absent from work. A claim was raised with Unum, which was declined. Unum 
said there was insufficient evidence to prove that Mr J was totally unable to perform the 
requirements of his normal employment during the deferred period. 
Miss J brought a complaint to our service which our investigator considered but didnt think 
should be upheld. He said Unum had fairly considered the available medical evidence and 
justified its decision not to pay the claim. He did however say that if further medical evidence 
was presented, Unum should reassess the claim.
Mr J sought further medical evidence of his condition and sent this to Unum for a further 
review - but Unum declined the claim again. It said the decision to decline the claim stood 
because although the new medical evidence dated November 2021 and July 2022 outlined 
that it would not be helpful for Mr J to not return to the heavy lifting element of his role, the 
comments were a conservative approach to maintaining his health, as opposed to a medical 
necessity. Unum remained of the opinion that the medical evidence did not substantiate that 
Mr J was totally unable to carry out his normal role during the deferred period. 
Following Unums review dated September 2022, Miss J provided a further 2 letters from 
Mr Js consultant cardiologist dated 10 October 2022 and 12 June 2023. In the new 
evidence provided, the consultant provided a retrospective opinion on Mr Js ability to work 
during the deferred period and said he was unable to return to his normal job. 
Unhappy that Unum wouldnt change its stance, Miss J brought a further complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what happened - but didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said that the new evidence provided to Unum 
was not contemporaneous and didnt demonstrate that Mr J was totally unable to perform his 
job during the waiting period, as required by the policy. 
Miss J disagreed with the investigators conclusions and in summary made the following 
comments: 
The previous medical records relied on by the investigator dont specifically address 
whether or not Mr J was able to return to undertake his normal employment, whereas 
the more recent consultant letter dated 22 October 2022 specifically addresses this. 
Unum didnt agree to considering the medical evidence dated October 2022 on the 
basis that it was out of time and the investigator failed to address this in his 
investigation. 
The investigator failed to address the relevance of the letter from the consultant 
dated 10 October 2022 which stated he was unable to return to his normal duties and 
instead placed more weight on the general hospital notes which were not prepared 
for the purpose of ascertaining his ability to return to his normal job.  
Miss J asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and so the case has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Both parties have provided detailed submissions to support their position. I want to assure 
them Ive read and carefully considered everything theyve said, but I wont comment on 
everything. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy sets out the definition of waiting period as follows:
means the first 26 weeks of continuous Disablement during which no Benefit is 
payable
The policy also defines disablement as follows:
means such illnesses or injury as renders the member totally unable to follow his 
normal employment and he is not following any other occupation for profit or reward.
Mr Js job duties, which have been accepted by Unum, consist of three main areas: driving, 
heavy lifting and walking. 
Unum said that the policy terms confirm that in order for Mr J to be eligible for benefit it 
would need to be satisfied that he is totally unable to follow his normal employment for the 
full 26 weeks qualifying period. The qualifying period here was 16 December 2019 to 15 
June 2020. 
Miss J said that Mr J was unable to drive as his licence was suspended for six months 
following the heart attack and that it was unsafe for him to drive due to suffering from dizzy 
spells. I have considered this, but I agree with the investigator that the evidence suggests 
Mr J could have reapplied during the deferred period as his medical notes, in particular his 
discharge letter dated 2 July 2020, which confirmed that when the medication thought to be 
causing the dizzy spells, was discontinued, Mr J reported feeling better. Unum said the medical notes confirm that following the heart attack, Mr J was in hospital for 
a period of time. However, the medical notes indicate that his recovery was good and within 
the time frame expected for an event like this. Unum also noted that in March 2020 Mr Js 
medical notes suggested he was making a good recovery from the heart attack as he was 
walking between 6,000-10,000 steps a day. Unum said this gave a good indication that he 
was making a good recovery and of his on-going cardiac capability. It was also noted that at 
Mr Js cardiac review in June 2020 he was on the whole feeling back to normal. 
Following Unums claim decline in August 2020, Miss J then provided further medical 
evidence dated November 2021 and July 2022, two years after the deferred period in 
question. 
The evidence from November 2021 showed that Mr J saw the consultant for a second 
opinion on his heart condition. Mr J reported chronic tiredness, shortness of breath with 
dizziness. The letter comments on Mr J having a hands on job which he found increasingly 
more difficult to complete. Mr J raised concerns about the nature of his job putting too much 
strain on his heart and therefore wanting to seek early retirement on medical grounds. The 
consultant said that heavy lifting could have an adverse effect on the heart as it causes 
blood pressure to raise and therefore supported his application for early retirement. 
An application for early retirement due to deteriorating health or health concerns is different 
to an application for benefit under an income protection policy which requires evidence of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period following absence from work due to illness or an 
injury.
The evidence from July 2022 showed that Mr J reported feeling tired and suffering from 
dizzy spells again. The consultant commented on discontinuing one of Mr Js medications 
which could be contributing to the tiredness. The consultant also advised it would be best not 
to go back to lifting heavy weights and he would be happy for him to go back to carrying out 
other lighter duties. 
Despite the length of period which had passed, Unum reviewed all of the available medical 
evidence that was presented to it however it concluded there was insufficient information 
commenting on Mr J not returning to normal duties on medical grounds. 
Further evidence was then provided dated 10 October 2022 and 12 June 2023 from the 
consultant. The comments in these letters on Mr Js health arent contemporaneous and 
while I appreciate they are retrospective, I need to also consider whether there is other 
medical evidence in Mr Js medical records, during the deferred period, to support what the 
consultant is now saying about how Mr J was feeling at the time. 
In October 2022 the consultant advised carrying gentle aerobic exercises only, but this 
contradicts the information in Mr Js medical notes from February 2020, which says his GP 
advised to start with light general exercise only and gradually reintroduce heavier weights at 
his tolerance, indicating that there werent any concerns with Mr J increasing to heavier 
weights when he felt ready to do so.  
In the letter dated June 2023, the consultant says Mr J was unable to undertake his job 
during the deferred period due to his heart attack and requiring a period of cardiac 
rehabilitation. While I have no doubt that Mr J is feeling the way he describes, the medical 
evidence available during the deferred period doesnt support that he was totally unable to 
carry out his duties. This suggests to me that what the consultant is saying is based on his 
opinion of self-reporting from Mr J as opposed to evidence from Mr Js medical history for 
example his progress in rehabilitation and/or physiotherapy sessions. Having reviewed Mr Js medical notes Im not persuaded that there is enough evidence to 
say that he met the definition of disablement during the deferred period. Whilst its clear that 
the consultant wanted Mr J to avoid triggers of his condition, the medical evidence from the 
deferred period didnt suggest that Mr J couldnt carry out his role. It appears to be Mr Js 
perception that his role would bring on his symptoms.
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think Unum has adopted an unreasonable 
position in this case. Even though some of the evidence was provided after substantial time 
had passed, I am satisfied Unum did review the available medical evidence to consider 
whether Mr J was able to show he was totally unable to carry out his normal role. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Unum to decline the claim as it reviewed the medical evidence 
in the form of GP notes, hospital notes and consultations but explained there was insufficient 
medical evidence showing that Mr J was totally unable to carry out his duties. 
Turning now to Miss Js comments in response to the investigator, she said that Unum did 
not agree to consider the medical evidence from 10 October 2022. I note that the final 
response which Unum issued in September 2022 didnt comment on the consultants letter 
from October 2022 because it wasnt available at the time. Unum said that when it was 
provided, it did inform Rs representative that the evidence didnt change the outcome. Unum 
also provided its comments to our service on the evidence and said that it didnt change its 
stance. Im satisfied that Unum did consider all the medical evidence provided to date. 
Overall, whilst I recognise that R will be disappointed with my decision, Im not satisfied that 
the medical evidence from the deferred period or later, persuasively demonstrates that Mr 
Js condition affected his ability to perform his role throughout the deferred period. So, I dont 
think Unums decision was unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman