DRN-1521106
 
The complaint
Mrs M believes The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has acted unfairly by using its right 
of set off to move money from her current account to repay an outstanding balance on her 
credit card account.
What happened
Mrs M has a current account and credit card account with RBS.
Credit card statements for Mrs Ms account show that no interest has been applied to the 
outstanding balance since October 2016. They also show that the last repayment Mrs M 
made to card was in December 2016. Following that payment, the outstanding balance on 
the card stood at £6,071.19. 
In November 2019, RBS transferred £5,071.19 from Mrs Ms current account to the credit 
card account to reduce the outstanding balance under its right of set off. That left a balance 
of £1,000 owing on the credit card.
Mrs M complained to RBS about this action. She said it was unfair, she hadnt been warned 
that it was going to take this action and said that the money used, from the current account, 
had been intended for a house purchase.
RBS said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it was allowed to use a credit 
balance on one account to reduce the arrears on another. And it said it had written to Mrs M 
in October 2019 to let her know that this might happen. It did say that if Mrs M provided 
some evidence that the funds were to be used as a deposit for a property it would look into 
the matter further.
Unhappy with RBS response Mrs M asked our service to look into her complaint. She said 
she hadnt received the letter RBS says it sent warning her of this action. And having now 
had a copy of that letter she didnt think this was clear enough as it didnt say how much 
might be off set. She also said that she had understood the debt had been passed to a 
different company.
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt think RBS had done anything wrong or 
acted unfairly. He said that RBS had provided evidence that it had sent notification of its 
actions to Mrs M in October 2019 and he couldnt hold RBS responsible for this not being 
received. And based on the available evidence he was satisfied that the balance was still 
owed to RBS, not another company.
 
 
Mrs M asked for the complaint to be reviewed. She said she accepts that she owes RBS 
money but had received no correspondence from RBS for years so had genuinely forgotten about the debt. She also said shed recently cleared other debts and said this proved she 
hadnt received any information about this account for a number of years, as otherwise shed 
have also taken steps to address this balance. As Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators 
findings, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has provided details of the account balance and contact notes relating to Mrs Ms credit 
card. While these indicate RBS used a third-party company at one stage to seek repayment 
of the balance, which is common practice, Im satisfied based on what Ive seen that the 
balance was always held by and owed to RBS.
Turning to the use of RBS right of set off, the right to use a credit balance on one account to 
repay an outstanding debt on another, in the event of it being unpaid, is set out by the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It is detailed in the Banking Code of 
Business Sourcebook (BCOBS)  general rules and guidance for businesses. The rules say 
that a business is entitled to take this action and what it would be expected to do beforehand 
 including explaining the right to do this, generally in its account terms, and notifying an 
account holder in advance that it might exercise this right.
Ive seen a copy of RBS current account terms and conditions and they explain that if a 
customer has borrowed money and repayments are overdue it may take money from a 
current account to repay some or all of the money owed. 
RBS has sent us information from its systems which shows it holds the correct address for 
Mrs M. It has also sent us evidence to show that it wrote to Mrs M on 21 October 2019 to 
inform her that it may use its right of set off to make a payment to the account. Mrs M has 
said she didnt receive this letter. Which is unfortunate. But based on what Ive seen, on 
balance Im satisfied that RBS did send the notification to Mrs M at the correct address. So I 
think it has provided reasonable notice before using its right of set off. Mrs M has said that 
this letter didnt say how much would be off-set. But this isnt something that the rules require 
a business to include and I don't think this means RBS wasn't allowed to off set the money. 
So overall, I think RBS has done what was required of it before using its right of set off.
Mrs M has said that the money RBS used was intended for another purpose. But I dont 
think that means RBS has acted unfairly or incorrectly. There was a balance owed to RBS 
and no repayment had been made to the credit card since December 2016. In the 
circumstances, and as no repayment proposal had been made, I dont think I can say RBS 
acted unfairly by using its right of set off. Mrs M has said shed forgotten about this account. 
But again, I dont think that means RBS acted unfairly as the balance was owed to it. I also 
note RBS said it was willing to look at this again if Mrs M was able to provide some evidence 
to show that the money was needed for another purpose. As I dont think it made a mistake 
by using its right of set off, I think this proposal is reasonable.
 
 
Mrs M talked in her response to the investigator about how the balance came about and 
about how RBS dealt with her while she was in financial difficulties. She has said she was in 
correspondence with RBS about the balance in 2016 and that she explained to it she was having difficulty. And I do note that the account notes provided by RBS indicate a repayment 
plan was agreed between it and Mrs M for repayments to be £1 per month. And account 
statements show the minimum repayment was reduced to reflect this between March 2017 
and February 2018. So this indicates there was some dialogue between the two regarding 
Mrs M being in difficulties. But the complaint weve been asked to consider is whether RBS 
acted fairly when moving money from Mrs Ms current account to repay her credit card in 
November 2019. If Mrs M wishes to complain about how RBS dealt with her, and her credit 
card account, while she was in financial difficulties this would have to be raised as a 
separate complaint. This is because a financial business must be given the opportunity to 
respond to a complaint before our service is able to consider it. And I cant see that these 
issues have been raised with RBS.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman