DRN-3350535
The complaint
Miss I complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against her private 
medical insurance policy. 
Miss Is father, Mr U, is assisting her in bringing the complaint. For ease of reference Ill refer 
to Mr Us comments as being those of Miss I.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss I had private medical insurance with Aviva. The policy 
relevant in this complaint started in February 2020.
Miss I suffered pain in one of her heels and I understand that her GP referred her to a 
consultant in trauma and orthopaedics. In August 2020, she made a claim against the 
policy. Aviva authorised an initial consultation with the consultant and subsequently 
authorised a scan and 10 sessions of physiotherapy for Miss I. Miss I was referred to a 
podiatrist for orthotics. Miss I says that she unaware that shed been referred to a 
podiatrist and thought that she had been referred to another physiotherapist. 
Initially, Aviva declined payment of invoices from the podiatrist, as there was no cover 
under the policy for that treatment. I understand that the provider started recovery 
proceedings against Miss I for the outstanding invoices. Miss I complained to Aviva and 
in response to the complaint, Aviva authorised payment of the invoices as a gesture of 
goodwill. In 2021, Miss I didnt renew the policy and asked Aviva to refund premiums for 
the previous policy year, but it didnt agree to do so. 
Miss I says that Aviva should have contacted the hospital on receipt of the invoices to 
say that as the hospital failed to tell her to obtain a fresh authorisation code for podiatry, 
it should waive the cost. She says that the difficulties she encountered meant that she 
was effectively uninsured, so Aviva should refund the premium. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. The investigator said Aviva hadnt acted unfairly in declining the 
claim initially, as the treatment wasnt covered by the policy. He said that Aviva wasnt 
responsible for any actions taken by the hospital, such as not making it clear to Miss I 
who was treating her or instructing a debt collection agency. But he noted that Aviva had 
settled the invoices as a gesture of goodwill. The investigator didnt think it would be 
reasonable for Aviva to refund premiums. 
Miss I didnt agree with the investigator. There were several exchanges between Miss I 
and the investigator, which I wont set out here in detail. In summary, Miss I said: 
When the hospital asked her for payment, she told Aviva about the change of 
treatment. 
Aviva should have contacted the hospital to make it aware of the error on the 
hospitals part. 
As Aviva didnt change its stance about payment of the invoices straight away, 
they had to seek assistance from the NHS.
There was no fresh evidence which made Aviva change its stance, so it could 
have paid the invoices immediately. If it had done that, she could have continued 
to benefit from the private treatment. 
It wasnt until she saw the invoice that she knew that shed been treated by a 
podiatrist and that the course of treatment had changed. So, she didnt know that 
she should have obtained a new authorisation code. 
If Aviva had agreed to pay the invoices earlier, she wouldnt have sought 
treatment from the NHS. 
This service should investigate matters for the benefit of the NHS and 
consumers. 
As Miss I asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be helpful if I explain that this service is an informal dispute resolution service, not the 
regulator. I can look at an individual complaint and see whether I think its fair and 
reasonable for it to be upheld. I cant direct a business generally about the conduct of its  
business.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:  
Exclusions
We do not cover:
 surgical or medical appliances such as [] orthotics (supports)
Treatment that is not eligible
We do not pay for treatment that is not covered by your policy []
How to claim
[]
We strongly recommend that you call before any planned treatment or diagnostic tests take 
place so that we can tell you if:
 the treatment is covered
 you must use our network for the treatment you need for your condition
 your specialist or hospital is recognised by us
 there are any limits that apply to your cover, or
 you need to complete a claim form.did Aviva treat Miss I unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Miss Is complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated her unfairly. I 
say that because:
Miss I is responsible for the costs she incurs in having private treatment. However, if 
her treatment is eligible treatment, Aviva pays the costs that are covered under her 
benefits and in accordance with the terms of cover. Any costs not covered under the 
policy are Miss Is responsibility. As Ive set out above, the policy contains a 
recommendation that Aviva is contacted before any planned treatment. 
Miss I says that Aviva should have contacted the hospital on receipt of the 
invoices to say that as the hospital failed to tell her to obtain a fresh authorisation 
code for podiatry, it should waive the cost. I dont agree that Aviva should have 
done as Miss I suggests. Aviva wouldnt necessarily know that Miss I was 
unaware of the nature of the treatment she was receiving or about any error the 
hospital might have made.  
As Ive set out above, Miss Is policy excludes cover for orthotics and treatment 
not covered by the policy. I dont think that Aviva acted outside the policy terms 
or unfairly or unreasonably in declining part of Miss Is claim.
Essentially, Miss I says that Aviva treated her unfairly or unreasonably in not 
deciding to pay the invoices earlier. But as Aviva wasnt obliged to pay the 
invoices at all and paid them as a gesture of goodwill, I dont think I can fairly say 
that it was at fault in not doing so earlier. 
Aviva paid invoices arising from her consultation with her orthopaedic and trauma 
consultant and her scan. It later settled the podiatric invoices as a gesture of 
goodwill. In the circumstances here, there are no grounds on which I could fairly 
direct Aviva to refund the premium. Miss I had the benefit of the policy and Aviva 
paid claims in the relevant policy year. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss I but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Is complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.  
Louise Povey
Ombudsman