DRN-3125816
The complaint
Mr A complains Revolut Ltd unfairly blocked his account and didnt allow access to a 
payment he received from third party. He wants access to the payment and compensation. 
What happened
Revolut blocked Mr As account in late 2018 to conduct an account review. The block 
followed a payment made by a third party. The payment never credited Mr As account, and 
Revolut said it returned the payment to the payers bank. Mr A says the payment was for 
services he provides as part of his business. Revolut unblocked the account in April 2020.
An investigator considered Mr As complaint and upheld it in part. They found: 
Revolut could block Mr As account. It has important legal and regulatory 
responsibilities and the block was reasonable for these purposes.
Revolut took too long to decide what to do with Mr As account. It was nearly 15 
months before it unblocked the account. Although the balance in the account was 
small, not having access to the account would have likely caused Mr A frustration 
over a prolonged period. Revolut should pay him £200.
Revolut provided evidence to show the payment Mr As customer sent was returned 
to source. And in the circumstances of this complaint, deciding to return the payment 
was reasonable. 
Revolut agreed to pay Mr A £200. But Mr A wanted documentary proof the payment was 
returned. He says the payer didnt receive the payment back from Revolut. 
The investigator said they couldnt provide the evidence Mr A wanted as it was provided in 
confidence. But they had reviewed a screen shot of the payment on Revoluts system which 
marked the payment as returned. This was enough to conclude the payment was returned 
for the purposes of Mr As complaint. They said Mr A may wish to ask the payer for copies of 
their statements showing the payment was sent and not returned. 
Mr A asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint, but I am not asking Revolut to do anything more 
than pay Mr A the £200 which it has already agreed to do. Ill explain why: 
Revolut must review accounts to comply with important regulatory and legal 
responsibilities. Those responsibilities generally concern monitoring accounts to 
ensure activity is genuine, and to prevent financial harm where possible. And, its 
common industry practice to restrict accounts when carrying out a review. Ive 
considered Revoluts reason(s) for undertaking a review and restricting Mr As 
account and find its decision was reasonable.
Sometimes it will be appropriate for a firm to return a payment to the senders bank. I 
understand Mr A might want to know Revoluts reason for returning the payment. He 
sent it information about payments which credited his account and tax information. 
But based on other information Revolut held, I find it was reasonable to return the 
payment. And Revolut is not obliged to reveal that information to him.
Mr A wants documentary evidence the payment was returned to the sender. But I 
have decided to treat that evidence in confidence. I am afforded this power under 
DISP 3.5.9R (2). The Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) set out our services powers, 
and they form part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. But in summary 
Revolut has a system record of the payment, which includes the payers name and 
account information which is marked as returned. And I find this is enough to show 
the payment was returned and Revolut are not holding on to the payment.
Mr A says the person who made the payment didnt receive it back. But my role is not 
to resolve this complaint in order for the person to send the payment to Mr A again. 
Instead, I need to decide whether Revolut did something wrong and if it did, what it 
should do to put matters right. I dont find Revolut needs to provide Mr A with a copy 
of its systems screen shot and there are good reasons for it not to.
Revolut took too long to review Mr As complaint. It had a backlog of accounts to 
review, but this is not a good enough reason for Mr A to have waited nearly 15 
months without having use of his account. His account balance was low, and I 
havent seen evidence to show the account block meant he had no other means to 
receive or make payments. So, I dont find he suffered a direct financial loss as a 
result of the account being blocked. But I do not doubt the length of time Revolut took 
was frustrating. And I find £200 is a fair and reasonable sum to make up for this.
Putting things right
I direct Revolut to pay Mr A £200 for the length of time it took to review and then unblock his 
account. 
My final decisionI have decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Subject to Mr A accepting this decision Revolut 
Ltd need to pay him £200.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman