DRN-3867880
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy shes been charged an early settlement charge and for excess mileage 
when she terminated her hire agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Jaguar Contract 
Hire (Lex).
Mrs O has been represented in this complaint by Mr N. However, for ease of reference, my 
decision will only refer to Mrs O.
What happened
In October 2018, Mrs O was supplied with a car through a hire agreement with Lex. She paid 
an advance rental of £1,624.54 and the agreement was for 48 months; with monthly 
payments of £273.75. If the agreement ran its full term, Mrs O was due to pay a total of 
£14,508.79 in rental payments.
The agreement stated a maximum total allowable mileage of 20,000 miles (5,000 miles a 
year). It also stated that Mrs O would be charged 19.5 pence (including VAT) a mile for any 
mileage that exceeded this amount.
In July 2019, Mrs O asked Lex if she could amend the total mileage allowed under the 
agreement, as shed moved home which had increased the miles she was travelling. Lex 
said this would increase her monthly rental payment and, after considering an income and 
expenditure form provided by Mrs O, declined her request as they didnt think the increased 
payment was affordable for her.
Mrs O contacted Lex again in March 2021. She explained that she could no longer afford the 
payments due to a change in her financial circumstances, and her options were discussed. 
Mrs O wanted to change her car for a cheaper one, but Lex explained that this wasnt 
something they could arrange. As such, Mrs O returned the car to Lex, and they charged her 
an early termination charge, as well as a charge for exceeding the total allowable mileage.
Mrs O wasnt happy about this, and complained to Lex that theyd refused her request to 
increase the mileage in 2019; that shed been forced by Lex to terminate the agreement 
early, which resulted in her paying more than if shed kept the car over the remaining term; 
that she wasnt given her statutory 14-day cooling off period when the agreement was 
terminated; and that she hadnt breached her contract, so Lex werent able to terminate it.
Lex didnt uphold Mrs Os complaints, and they said theyd charged the excess mileage in 
line with the agreement shed signed. Mrs O wasnt happy with Lexs response, and she 
brought her complaint to us for investigation.
While Mrs Os complaint was under investigation, Lex offered to reduce the excess mileage 
charge to £660.66. However, Mrs O rejected this, and she thought that the whole of the 
excess mileage and early termination charges should be waived.
Our investigator said Lex first responded to Mrs Os complaint about their refusal to increase 
the mileage in February 2020, and Mrs O had six months in which to bring this issue to us. 
But she didnt do so until September 2021. And, as such, this wasnt something we could 
look into. 
The investigator also thought that Mrs O had asked Lex to terminate the agreement and 
hand the car back. And changing the car for a smaller, cheaper alternative wasnt something 
Lex were able to arrange on her behalf. So, she didnt think that Lex had in anyway forced 
Mrs O to terminate the agreement. She also said that a 14-day cooling off period is only 
something that applies when an agreement starts, and not when it ends.
Finally, the investigator explained why Lex were able to charge an early termination charge 
and a charge for pro-rated excess mileage on termination. She also explained, and provided 
calculations for, why she thought the charge for terminating the agreement was fair and 
reasonable, and why Mrs O didnt pay more on termination than she wouldve done had the 
agreement run its full term. 
Given all of this, she thought Lexs offer to reduce the excess mileage charge to £660.66 
was reasonable. And she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mrs O wasnt happy that we were unable to consider the refusal of the mileage amendment 
in 2019 and considered this to be utterly perverse and twisted logic as its clear this was 
the basis of all her complaints. And she went on to explain why she considered the 
amendment affordable to her at the time.
On 20 December 2022, I issued a decision explaining why we werent able to consider the 
issues responded to by Lex in February 2020; as theyd been brought to us out of time, 
because Lex didnt consent to us considering these matters out of time, and because I didnt 
think there were any exceptional circumstances why Mrs O hadnt been able to bring her 
complaints to us earlier. As such, I explained to Mrs O that we were only able to consider the 
other complaints shed raised.
For clarity, these complaints are:
that Mrs O was forced by Lex to terminate the agreement early, which resulted in her 
paying more than if shed kept the car over the remaining term;
that Mrs O wasnt given her statutory 14-day cooling off period when the agreement 
was terminated; and
that Mrs O hadnt breached her contract, so Lex werent able to terminate it.
Mrs O said she was suspicious of the recordings of the calls where shed agreed to 
terminate the agreement, but wouldnt say why because it will only give Lex the chance to 
cook up more evidence. But she didnt agree that the termination was by mutual consent, 
and thought that she was only given the choice to terminate or continue to rack up excess 
mileage at 19.5p a mile and face a crippling bill at the end because her request to amend the 
mileage was rejected in 2019. And she thought this refusal caused an excess mileage bill of 
£2,150.73 instead of £1,586.30 had the amendment been accepted.
Because of this, Mrs O thought that the £2,150.73 should be credited to her account, with 
Lex making a goodwill payment of £2,500, and she would then pay the outstanding £564.40 
to close the account.
Because Mrs O didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint, Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs O was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means we can look into complaints about it.
However, before I address Mrs Os complaints, I think it would be useful to address the 
charges themselves. And, in doing so, Ive considered the following:
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
Section 101 of the CCA refers to a consumers right to terminate a hire agreement by giving 
notice. It states:
Right to terminate hire agreement:
(1) The hirer under a regulated consumer hire agreement is entitled to terminate the 
agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or authorised to receive the sums 
payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability 
under the agreement which has accrued before the termination ...
(7) This section does not apply to
(a) any agreement which provides for the making by the hirer of payments 
which in total (and without breach of the agreement) exceed £1,500 in any 
year
Section 132 of the CCA enables the court to grant relief to a hirer where the owner has 
recovered possession of the goods otherwise than by action. It states:
Financial relief for hirer:
(1) Where the owner under a regulated consumer hire agreement recovers 
possession of goods to which the agreement relates otherwise than by action, the 
hirer may apply to the court for an order that
(a) the whole or part of any sum paid by the hirer to the owner in respect of 
the goods shall be repaid, and
(b) the obligation to pay the whole or part of any sum owed by the hirer to the 
owner in respect of the goods shall cease, and if it appears to the court just to 
do so, having regard to the extent of the enjoyment of the goods by the hirer, 
the court shall grant the application in full or in part.
(2) Where in proceedings relating to a regulated consumer hire agreement the court 
makes an order for the delivery to the owner of goods to which the agreement relates 
the court may include in the order the like provision as may be made in an order 
under subsection (1).
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)
The CRA sets out a schedule of non-exhaustive examples which might be considered to be 
unfair. The effect of this section is that terms used in contracts and notices will only be 
binding upon the consumer if they are fair. It defines unfair terms as those which put the 
consumer at a disadvantage, by limiting the consumers rights or disproportionately 
increasing their obligations as compared to the traders rights and obligations.Part 2: Unfair Terms. What are the general rules about fairness of contract 
terms and notices?
62. (1) An unfair term of a consumer contract is not binding on the consumer .
(4) A term is unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant 
imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations under the contract to the detriment of 
the consumer.
The CRA provides guidance on the expected clarity of wording within a contract, and the 
potential impact that any ambiguity within the contract would have:
68: Requirement for transparency
(1) A trader must ensure that a written term of a consumer contract, or a consumer 
notice in writing, is transparent 
69: Contract terms that may have different meanings
(1) If a term in a consumer contract, or a consumer notice, could have different 
meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer is to prevail.
The CRA then goes on to list examples of terms that might be considered unfair:
Schedule 2: Consumer contract terms which may be regarded as unfair.
Part 1 list of terms 
(4) A term which has the object or effect of permitting the trader to retain sums paid 
by the consumer where the consumer decides not to conclude or perform the 
contract, without providing for the consumer to receive compensation of an 
equivalent amount from the trader where the trader is the party cancelling the 
contract.
(5) A term which has the object or effect of requiring that, where the consumer 
decides not to conclude or perform the contract, the consumer must pay the trader a 
disproportionately high sum in compensation or for services which have not been 
supplied.
(6) A term which has the object or effect of requiring a consumer who fails to fulfil his 
obligations under the contract to pay a disproportionately high sum in compensation.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
The FCA Principles for Businesses (PRIN) also apply and are of relevance to this complaint. 
PRIN 6 says A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
The Hire Agreement
The hire agreement sets out Mrs Os contractual obligations. Regarding early termination, 
the agreement states:
10. Default and termination for legal or regulatory compliance
(a) If: (i)you fail to pay two consecutive Rentals (as explained in clause 2(b)) or you 
breach this agreement in any other way; or
(ii)you have given us or any intermediary incorrect or misleading information which 
would have affected or affects our decision to do business with you and on what 
terms; or
(iii) you have made against you a bankruptcy order or you enter into a scheme of 
arrangement or voluntary arrangement or you are subject to the equivalent of any of 
those proceedings in any jurisdiction or you cease to trade as a result of financial difficulties; or
(iv) the Vehicle is seized or detained by anyone having legal authority to do so as a 
result of your failure or wrongdoing; or
(v) you abandon, part with day to day control of, use for a purpose that is expressly 
not permitted, sell or attempt to sell the Vehicle; or
(vi) you do any act or thing which in our reasonable opinion may prejudice or 
jeopardise our rights in respect of the Vehicle; we have the right to take any of the 
actions described in clause 11 but we will not do so if it is clear to us that the 
circumstances are such that our interests under this agreement are not prejudiced.
(b) We shall be entitled to terminate this agreement by giving you not less than seven 
day's written notice if (i) our provision to you of the Vehicle under this agreement 
becomes contrary to any applicable law or regulation imposed by any government or 
any regulatory authority, or (ii) we receive a request or a direction from a regulator to 
effect such a termination. We shall consult with you before giving notice to terminate 
this agreement under this clause 10(b).
11. Our Right in your Default
(a) If any of the events set out in clause 10(a) occurs, we may serve a default notice 
on you explaining that you are in default under this agreement and (if it is possible to 
put it right) how you can do that and when you must do it by. If it is possible to put the 
default right and you manage to do so within the time allowed, this agreement will 
continue. If you do not put the default right within the time allowed, or if it is not 
possible to put the default right, we may terminate this agreement and/or the hiring of 
the Vehicle.
(b) As soon as we terminate this agreement or the hiring under this agreement you 
will no longer be in possession of the Vehicle with our consent and you must 
immediately arrange for us to collect the Vehicle from you. If you do not do so we 
may repossess it immediately.
(c) Our rights will not be affected if we have relaxed or not previously enforced this 
agreement or by any delay or attempt to recover overdue amounts.
(d) We may keep any refund of licence duty when we sell the recovered Vehicle.
12. Liability on Termination
If under clause 11 we terminate this agreement and/or the hiring under this 
agreement because you are in default under this agreement, you will immediately 
pay us:
(a) any Rentals or other sums which have already fallen due under this agreement 
but have not yet been paid; plus 
(b) 50% of the remaining Monthly Rentals which would have been payable up to the 
end of the Minimum Period If the hiring had not ended; plus
(c) damages for any cost or loss we have suffered as a result of your breach; plus
(d) any other sums due under this agreement, including but not limited to any repair 
costs as set out in clause 9 and any extra mileage charges as set out in clause 13; 
less
(e) if yours is a Terminal Pause Agreement, the amount (if any) of the Initial Rental 
which relates to the future remaining part of the Minimum Period.
Regarding excess mileage the agreement states:
Excess Mileage Charge
Annual mileage allowance: 5000 miles
Contract mileage allowance: 20,000 miles
Extra mileage charge rate: 19.50 pence per mile (incl. VAT)
The extra mileage charge rate may vary if you request a variation to the Contract Mileage Allowance and/or Minimum Period as set out in clause 2(g) of the Terms.
If on expiry or termination of this agreement the mileage of the Vehicle exceeds the 
Contract Mileage Allowance, you must pay us an extra mileage charge at the rate set 
out above for each mile which the Vehicle has travelled in excess of the Contract 
Mileage Allowance. If this agreement terminates before the end of the Minimum 
Period, we will reduce the Contract Mileage Allowance on a pro-rata basis in order to 
calculate the extra mileage. For example, if the agreement terminates after two thirds 
of the Minimum Period has elapsed, the Contract Mileage Allowance used in the 
calculation will be two thirds of the Contract Mileage Allowance set out above. 
Similarly, if the hiring continues after the expiry of the Minimum Period, the Contract 
Mileage Allowance will be increased on a pro-rata basis.
[AND]
13. MILEAGE
(a) The Vehicle has the Contract Mileage Allowance shown on page 2.
(b) If, on expiry or termination of the hiring, the Vehicle's mileage exceeds the 
Contract Mileage Allowance (calculated on a pro-rata basis if the hiring terminates 
before or after expiry of the Minimum Period) you must pay us a charge per extra 
mile as shown on page 2.
(c) You will not be paid any money back or get a reduction in any charges payable by 
you under this agreement if, on its return, the Vehicle is under the Contract Mileage 
Allowance (calculated on a prorate basis if the hiring terminates before or after expiry 
of the Minimum Period).
The first point I need to consider is whether these charges are legally enforceable on early 
termination. Unlike a hire purchase agreement, the hire agreement Mrs O entered into 
doesnt have the same rights in legislation to terminate an agreement early. And, while 
section 101 of the CCA gives consumers the right to terminate a hire agreement, this doesnt 
apply to agreements where the hirer is required to make payments exceeding £1,500 a year. 
Which Mrs O was. So, Im satisfied that section 101 of the CCA doesnt apply.
So, as the charges, on the face of it, arent unenforceable, Ive also considered if what Mrs O 
is being asked to pay is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs O was forced to terminate the agreement early; she wasnt given her statutory 14-day 
cooling off period when the agreement was terminated; and she hadnt breached her 
contract, so Lex werent able to terminate it
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs O and Lex that took place on 17 March, 23 March, and 
26 March 2021, where ending the agreement was discussed. 
Mrs O initially called Lex on 17 March 2021 and advised them that her circumstances had 
changed - she was no longer employed and was receiving benefits - and that she wasnt 
able to afford to continue to make payments to the car. She asked what her options were 
and said, I might have to give the car back. Lex explained that returning the car would incur 
an early termination fee of 50% of the remaining rental - around £2,200. Which Mrs O said 
she couldnt afford. 
Mrs O was then transferred to Lexs customer priority team to discuss the situation in more 
detail. They asked her if she was looking to return the car, and Mrs O said she was as she 
could no longer afford to keep it. Lex said they could review Mrs Os affordability and she asked them to send her the affordability form by email. Lex also put the March 2021 
payment on a temporary hold.
Mrs O called Lex back the same day. She explained that she couldnt afford to pay the 
termination fee, and asked to change the car for a smaller, less expensive model financed 
through Lex. But Lex explained why this wasnt something they could do, as they arent 
involved in the actual supply of the car. Lex said they were able to help Mrs O with either her 
payments, or with handing the car back, but theyd need to review the affordability form 
before theyd be able to discuss things further.
Lex called Mrs O on 23 March 2021 to discuss the affordability form shed submitted. Lex 
again asked Mrs O if she was looking to return the car, and she said she was. Mrs O again 
asked if she could switch the car for a cheaper one, and Lex explained they couldnt do this, 
and that Mrs O would need to speak to a dealer/broker who could assist her with sourcing a 
different car.
Based on the affordability form Mrs O had submitted, Lex were unable to reduce the early 
termination charge. As Mrs O was unable to pay this, Lex confirmed that they could agree a 
payment plan once the car had been returned. Lex offered Mrs O time to consider her 
options, and if she wanted to go ahead with returning the car. Mrs O said she didnt want 
time to think about things and asked Lex to arrange to collect the car. Given this, a collection 
date was arranged.
Finally, Lex returned Mrs Os call on 26 March 2021. She explained that her financial 
situation had improved slightly, that shed tried to arrange a lease on a cheaper car, and that 
she wanted to pay the early termination fee. Lex explained that, because the final balance 
may include excess mileage and damage charges, they werent able to say how much was 
owing at this point. During this call, Mrs O also confirmed that she still wanted to return the 
car.
Given the contents of these calls, Im satisfied that the agreement was terminated by mutual 
consent, following Mrs Os request to return the car.
In her complaint, Mrs O has said that a contract is a legally binding document between two 
parties. The proposer has to give the other party 14 days statutory cooling off rights. The 
same applies to cancellation or amendment  it cannot be terminated unilaterally unless the 
other party has already breached the contract.
While I appreciate Mrs Os comments, theres no statutory right to a 14-day cooling off 
period when a hire agreement is terminated early. And theres nothing in the hire agreement 
that allows for any cooling off period under these circumstances.
Whats more, as stated above, the agreement wasnt terminated unilaterally by Lex, but was 
terminated by mutual consent following Mrs Os request. As such, theres no requirement for 
the contract to have been breached before termination could happen.
So, Im satisfied that both parties agreed to terminate the hire agreement early. And, as a 
result, Lex charged both an early termination charge and a charge for exceeding the total 
allowable mileage (calculated based on a pro-rated allowable mileage for the length the 
agreement was in force).
Clause 12 of the hire agreement only provides for an early termination charge based on the 
provisions set out in clauses 10 and 11. However, clauses 10 and 11 dont include the 
circumstances applicable here  where early termination was mutually agreed between the 
parties. So, its not clear whether clause 12 actually applies. And, while clause 13(b) allows for a pro-rated excess mileage charge to be applied, the hire agreement isnt clear as to 
what basis fair compensation will be calculated when both an early termination and an 
excess mileage charge are applied.
Taking everything into consideration, I think its fair to presume that Lex are charging both 
the early termination charge and excess mileage charge to compensate themselves for both 
Mrs O not paying all the originally agreed contractual payments and for any devaluation of 
the car caused by the expected mileage (the total allowable mileage specified in the hire 
agreement) being exceeded. But the fact that the car has a different (higher) value on early 
termination as opposed to the value at the end of the hire agreement also needs to be 
considered.
As the hire agreement doesnt provide a transparent and fair way of calculating this 
compensation, and so ensuring that Lex arent overcompensated to the extent that it 
wouldnt be fair and proportionate to their actual loss, Im satisfied that PRIN 6 should be 
applied to the circumstances. Which would also involve the need for Lex to be both clear and 
transparent about what theyre charging; and not charging more than its fair and reasonable 
to do so.
In her view on Mrs Os complaint, the investigator looked at the difference between the 
position Lex would be in upon early termination compared to the position theyd be in had 
the agreement run its full term (and the car having done no more than the total allowable 
mileage). In doing so, the investigator also considered the value of the car at both stages, 
with valuations taken using the motor trade guides. Using these guides is in line with 
standard practice for the Financial Ombudsman Service, so I dont think the investigator 
acted unfairly when doing so. Whats more, Mrs O hasnt provided any evidence to show that 
these valuations were incorrect.
As such, I see no reason why the investigators calculations shouldnt be relied upon.
When Mrs O returned the car, there was around 18-months left on the agreement, and had 
the agreement continued to its natural end, Mrs O wouldve paid an additional £5,201.25. As 
it was, she paid an early termination charge of £2,207.20, and a pro-rated excess mileage 
charge of £2,150.70  at the point of termination Mrs O had done 23,495 miles in the car.
So, had the agreement run its full term, Lex wouldve received £5,201.25 in payments from 
Mrs O, and the car wouldve been valued at £18,626 (assuming the total allowable mileage 
hadnt been exceeded  if it had, then any reduction in this value due to mileage would be 
offset by any excess mileage charge). So, Lex would be receiving goods and payments to 
the value of £23,827.25.
However, as the agreement was terminated early, Mrs O paid a total of £4,420.90 in 
charges, and the car was valued at £16,195. So, Lex received goods and payments to the 
value of £20,615.90. As such, charging what they did on early termination, Lex received 
£3,211.35 less than they otherwise wouldve done if the agreement had run its full course.
Given this, Im satisfied that the charges were fair and reasonable, and Lex werent 
overcompensated. Im also satisfied that they havent breached the requirements of PRIN 6.
Did Mrs O pay more on early termination than she wouldve done over the remaining term?
Mrs O has said that early termination was more expensive for her than if shed kept the car 
for the remaining term. As detailed above, Mrs O was charged a total of £4,420.90 when she 
terminated the agreement early. However, had she continued to make payments to Lex, 
these wouldve totalled £5,201.25. Whats more, Mrs O had already exceeded the total allowable mileage for the full term of the 
agreement by the time she terminated it early. So, had she not used the car for the 
remaining term (which I consider unlikely), she would still have had to pay an excess 
mileage charge of £681.53. Which would bring the minimum amount shed paid Lex to 
£5,882.78 - £1,461.88 more than she paid on early termination.
Given this, I cant agree that Mrs O paid more on early termination than she would have had 
the agreement run its full term.
So, taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that Lex acted fairly and reasonably in 
all the circumstances, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Lex have offered to reduce the excess mileage charge to £660.66 and its now for Mrs O to 
decide whether to accept this or not. As Mrs O still has an outstanding balance, Id remind 
Lex of their obligation to treat her with forbearance and due consideration if shes unable to 
repay this amount immediately.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint about Lex Autolease Ltd trading 
as Jaguar Contract Hire.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman