DRN-3768038
The complaint
Mr J complains about Pension Works Limiteds (PWL) advice in relation to his desire to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension arrangement. PWL said it didnt think Mr J should transfer his benefits.
What happened
Mr J was a deferred member of a DB scheme. In October 2021, he obtained a transfer value 
quotation from the trustees of the DB scheme. This gave details of the benefits the pension 
offered and the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Js benefits, which was 
£190,844.
Mr J contacted PWL in November 2021 to discuss his pension arrangements as he was 
interested in transferring his DB scheme benefits to a personal pension. PWL has indicated 
Mr J was referred to it by an introducer.
On 10 November 2021, PWL sent Mr J its terms of business and a brochure outlining its 
advice process. This explained the initial stages of PWLs advice would be about gathering 
information and completing a fact find with Mr J. It would then provide initial advice. It 
explained This abridged advice, is a shortened form of regulated advice which will 
determine whether a transfer out of your Defined Benefit scheme is unsuitable or unclear. 
This will be presented to you as an Initial Advice report. If the outcome of the initial advice 
was unclear Mr J would be able to choose to proceed to full advice. If in turn that full advice 
was that a transfer was recommended, PWL would then facilitate the transfer.
Mr J completed a letter of authority, authorising PWL to gather information about his existing 
pension arrangements. PWL confirmed receipt of this on 24 November 2021 and said it 
would send requests to the relevant providers but explained it could take several weeks for 
those providers to respond.  
On 22 February 2022, PWL completed a fact find with Mr J. This noted Mr J was 57, married 
with two children who were no longer financially dependent. He and Mrs J owned their own 
home, without a mortgage. They also owned two further properties  one that was being 
rented out and one that needed renovation. Their income exceeded their outgoings. Mr and 
Mrs J were recorded as having combined savings and investments of approximately 
£62,000. Mrs J was a member of a DB scheme through her employer. And, in addition to his 
DB scheme benefits, Mr J had personal pensions with a combined value of over £264,000. 
The fact-find said that Mr J wanted to leave his job and devote his time to completing the 
renovations on the property he and Mrs J owned that required this, with a view to this 
providing a significant return. And he wanted to transfer his DB scheme and take tax-free 
cash to pay for the work, and draw an income from the remainder, because he didnt think 
the income the DB scheme would provide at retirement would form a significant part of his 
retirement provisions and preferred to retain his personal pensions. 
In line with the process PWL outlined it then provided its initial advice. The written report 
setting this out, dated 25 February 2022, said that it thought a transfer was unsuitable. It said 
this was because Mr J had sufficient other means to meet his objectives  in particular his 
personal pensions  which meant he didnt need to give up his DB scheme benefits. And it 
noted that the regulators position was that keeping DB scheme benefits would be in the best 
interests of most consumers. It added that Mr J could review transferring at a later date, 
closer to the scheme retirement age. The report also indicated that there was no charge for 
this abridged advice.
Mr J complained to PWL about the advice. He said he felt the best possible use of the DB 
pension was to use it now to fund his living expenses while he completed the renovations, as 
this would increase his rental income and he didnt think the guaranteed pension the DB 
scheme would provide was particularly valuable. He also didnt want to use his other pension 
arrangements because they provided alternative death benefits, meaning he could leave 
them to his children. He was also unhappy with how long the advice process had taken.
PWL said, while it appreciated Mr J did not agree, it still didnt think a transfer was suitable. It 
also said it had only received the full information it needed from his pension schemes in 
early February 2022. So, it didnt think the time taken over the advice was unreasonable.
Mr J asked our service to consider his complaint, adding that he was unhappy PWL wouldnt 
confirm hed received advice to allow him to proceed with the transfer. PWL said, as it 
provided abridged advice only, under the rules set by the regulator, it wasnt able to provide 
such confirmation.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt think PWL had done 
anything wrong. She didnt think the conclusions it had reached or the advice it gave was 
unsuitable and she thought the time taken to give that advice was reasonable, as PWL had 
needed to wait for information to be provided to it by Mr Js pension providers. She also 
thought PWL had followed the process that it had made clear to Mr J and had acted correctly 
by declining to provide the confirmation of advice hed requested.
Mr J didnt agree. He said he hadnt asked for abridged advice and still felt PWL was 
incorrect and that he had proven a transfer was in his interests. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, noting that PWL had followed the 
process it set out to Mr J and that it didnt appear any fee had been paid. So, she didnt think 
it was wrong in providing abridged advice.
As Mr J remained unhappy with the Investigators opinion, the complaint was referred to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The advice process PWL followed
PWL set out its advice process in relation to defined benefit pension transfers when Mr J first 
contacted it. Ive seen evidenced that the relevant documents were shared with Mr J by 
email. And Im satisfied these documents were clear in setting out how PWL worked.
Specifically, they explained that there would be initial stages of information gathering and 
fact finding. After which PWL would then provide initial advice, and that this represented 
abridged advice. And this advice could have one of two outcomes  that a transfer was 
unsuitable or it was unclear if it was suitable or not. If it was unclear, Mr J would have the 
option of taking full advice.
The information Ive seen indicates that PWL followed this process as set out to Mr J when 
advising him. So, it has done as it said it would. And this process seems to be in line with 
guidance the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set out for providers giving 
abridged pension transfer advice in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS), under 
COBS 19.1A.
Mr J has said that he went to PWL for full advice. But financial businesses are entitled to 
decide their processes. PWLs chosen business model was to provide abridged advice first  
which it is entitled to decide to do. And I think PWL was clear with Mr J how it operated. I 
also havent seen anything to suggest that PWL has charged Mr J a fee for full advice, and 
indeed the abridged advice report suggests there is no fee, prior to the matter progressing to 
full advice. So, I dont think PWL has done anything wrong by providing abridged advice 
and Mr J was free to approach another provider had he not been happy with this. 
Id also add that, under COBS 19.1A.5, the FCA says that, where only abridged advice has 
been provided, businesses must not provide confirmation for the purposes of section 48 of 
the Pension Schemes Act 2015. This being confirmation to a consumer or plan trustees that 
full regulated DB transfer advice has been provided to enable a transfer to proceed. So, I 
also dont think PWL was wrong, as it has not gone beyond providing abridged advice here, 
to decline to provide this confirmation or sign anything saying it had given regulated advice, 
as Mr J has requested.
PWLs advice
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PWL should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js best interests. I think its important to 
stress as well though that PWLs role here wasnt simply to transact what Mr J wanted it to 
do. Its role was to advise Mr J, and in doing so it had to look beyond what Mr J wanted and 
make a determination of what it believed was in his best interests.
PWL was required to obtain information about Mr Js financial situation, circumstances and 
objectives and to base its advice on this information, as part of ensuring its advice was 
suitable. I think the information recorded in the fact-find covered all of these requirements. 
And the objectives PWL noted Mr J was hoping to achieve by transferring  using the DB 
scheme to allow him to complete renovations and support his income in the meantime  are 
the same as those Mr J said he had when making his complaint. So, Im satisfied the 
recommendation made was based on Mr Js specific circumstances.PWL concluded that Mr J did not need to transfer his DB scheme benefits in order to meet 
his objectives, because he had other means by which to do so  which is one of the things 
the regulator suggests business should take into account, particularly when giving abridged 
advice. So, it concluded that a transfer was not in his best interests and was unsuitable. 
Taking into account the available information and the starting assumption the FCA said PWL 
must have, I dont think that conclusion was unreasonable. 
Mr J did have other pension benefits that could already be accessed flexibly. Details of these 
were obtained by PWL from the relevant pension providers. And these pensions were 
already subject to investment risk  which the DB scheme was not. These pension benefits, 
as well as the savings and investments noted, wouldve given Mr J access to significantly 
greater sums than the DB scheme wouldve provided if it were transferred. So, these appear 
to have been sufficient to meet his stated aims  using the funds to cover costs and provide 
an income while he carried out renovations. And although it wasnt explored in the advice 
report in significant detail, Mr J also had the option of taking lending to finance the work, 
rather than making an irreversible transfer and giving up his guaranteed pension benefits. 
Taking all of this into account, I think PWLs conclusion that Mr J did not need to transfer, 
thus giving up his guaranteed benefits and exposing his fund to additional risk, in order to 
meet his objectives was reasonable.
Mr J has said he doesnt believe the DB scheme benefits to be of great value and that he 
thinks there is a chance he wont receive benefits greater than the transfer value. He also 
said he didnt think taking on borrowing was a reasonable alternative when he had money 
available. And he preferred to retain his other provisions, over the DB scheme, because of 
the death benefits that they provided.
I appreciate that Mr J and PWL had differing views of what was in his best interests. But 
again, it wasnt PWLs role to simply transact what Mr J wanted. It had to decide what it 
thought was in his best interests  based on the requirements of it set by the regulator. While 
I appreciate that Mr J did not believe the DB scheme benefits to be that valuable, the 
regulator has indicated it considers these types of benefits to generally be of value. So, 
where alternatives are available  while Mr J mayve thought otherwise  it wasnt in my 
opinion unreasonable for PWL to conclude these should be used instead. And, while Mr J 
considered the death benefits of the other DB schemes to be important, in giving advice, the 
priority for PWL was to make a recommendation concerning Mr Js retirement Thats 
because a pensions primary purpose is to provide an income in retirement  thats what it is 
designed for. It is not designed to be primarily used as an inheritance planning tool.
So, while I know Mr J did not agree with PWLs conclusions and recommendation, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of it to reach the view that a transfer was not in his best interests. 
And so, I dont think it has done anything wrong by saying this was unsuitable.
I also dont think PWL was wrong to decline to facilitate the transfer. It had fairly concluded, 
in my view, at the abridged advice stage, that the transfer was unsuitable. Its process, 
where that conclusion was reached, was not to proceed to provide full advice. And it has 
said it doesnt facilitate transfers on an insistent client basis. PWL is under no obligation to 
offer this service, I cant compel it to do so, and, from what Ive seen, it didnt indicate at any 
point of the advice process that it would offer this service. So, I dont think it did anything 
wrong by ending the advice process after providing abridged advice.
The time the advice took
Mr J has also said he was unhappy with how long the advice process took  noting his 
transfer value quotation expired before the initial advice was provided. As Ive explained, PWL was required to base its advice on Mr Js circumstances. This, in my 
view, included taking into account his pension provisions  particularly as that was what 
PWL was being asked to advise on. Ive seen evidence that PWL requested information from 
Mr Js pension providers at the end of November 2021, once hed provided signed authority 
for it to do so. PWL informed Mr J at that point, it could take several weeks for that 
information to be received. And the evidence Ive seen indicates all of the relevant 
information wasnt received until early February 2022. Which was beyond PWLs control. Im 
also satisfied, from the contact notes Ive seen, that PWL took reasonable steps to chase 
that information. Once the relevant information was received and reviewed, PWL scheduled 
a fact find and then gave its abridged advice promptly.
So overall, I dont think the time taken for PWL to give its abridged advice here was 
unreasonable. The information gathering took the majority of the time. But that was beyond 
PWLs control and not something I can reasonably say it was responsible for. And otherwise, 
it has acted promptly. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman