DRN-2258997
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) has breached the terms 
of the contract regarding their home emergency policy. 
It should be noted that the insurer in this complaint is British Gas Insurance Limited, who is 
the business who underwrite this policy. 
What happened
In November 2019 BG wrote to Mr and Mrs F reminding them to book for an annual service. 
When they attempted to book online, the earliest available appointment was in January 
2020. Which wouldve meant that there had been around 17 months since the previous 
boiler service. Mr and Mrs F felt that this constituted a breach of the terms of the policy as 
BG ought to have carried out the annual service within 12 months from any previous service.
Mr and Mr F said that this wasnt the first time the BG had breached the terms of the policy 
and delayed in carrying out the annual service. So they sought compensation from BG of the 
full cost of the policy - £298.70. As they felt this would take into account the breach of the 
policy terms and that this hadnt been the first time Mr and Mrs F had to complain about this 
issue. 
BG didnt accept that it was in breach of contract but ultimately offered £65.00 compensation 
for the trouble and upset it caused due to it being late in providing the annual service. Mr and 
Mrs F said that BG had breached the contract. And although they didnt accept that the level 
of compensation was enough, cashed the cheque that BG issued and referred their 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He said that:
BG didnt breach the terms of the policy and if there was further evidence that Mr and 
Mrs F had relied upon to show that there had been a breach, then they ought to 
provide it. 
The terms and conditions of the policy allowed for annual services to go beyond the 
12 months duration of the current policy. 
The compensation offered for the trouble and upset was fair and there was nothing 
further that he could reasonably ask BG to do. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with our investigator and said that it was unreasonable for him to 
ask for further evidence, when evidence had been supplied. They accepted that there was a 
clause permitting BG to carry out annual services more than 12 months apart. But they 
believed that this didnt negate its contractual obligation to carry out an annual service within 
the 12 months contractual period. So they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I understand that this isnt the outcome 
that Mr and Mrs F wouldve liked but I will explain why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr and Mrs F said that BG were in breach of the terms of the contract as they were unable 
to book an annual service before the renewal date of the current contract with BG. The first 
date that was available wouldve meant that there had been around 17 months between the 
two services. 
BG has said that it couldnt provide an annual service within the 12-month period due to 
engineer availability. Having reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy, I dont agree 
that BG were in breach of those terms and Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions required BG to contact policy holders to invite them to book for 
annual services, which is what happened here and isnt in dispute. The main issue is 
whether BG had a contractual obligation to ensure that the service was conducted within 12 
months of a previous service. The specific term provides:
Your annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after the last service visit
In addition, I think the policy schedule also reinforces this term by stating: 
What is insured: annual service of your boiler. Your annual service maybe more than 12 
months apart.
Whilst I can understand the frustration that Mr and Mrs F felt at not being able to secure an 
appointment within the 12-month period, I am satisfied that the clauses allowed BG to 
conduct annual services that fell outside the 12-month period.
I note that Mr and Mrs Fs policy ran from January to January. The previous service took 
place in August 2018. Unfortunately, there is no further evidence as to why Mr and Mrs F 
chose not to book an appointment (which under the terms and conditions they were required 
to do) before or in August 2019, so that the service could be completed within 12 months 
from the previous service.
In addition, I think the policy makes it clear that during colder months of the year engineer 
availability might make it difficult to secure an annual service within the 12-month period. It 
also didnt prevent Mr and Mrs F from booking an annual service irrespective of whether BG 
invited them to do so or not. Consequently, I am satisfied that BG hadnt breached the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
I have next considered whether BGs offer of £65.00 for the trouble and upset caused is fair 
in the circumstances. It acknowledged that it had failed to carry out the service within the 
contractual period and that it was late by around nine days. For this, it ultimately offered and 
paid compensation of £65.00. Mr and Mrs F felt that this wasnt enough compensation and 
sought a far greater amount. They were also dissatisfied that the timeframe to accept the 
offer was limited to around seven days.
Mr and Mrs F initially complained in November 2019. This complaint was acknowledged by 
BG via email. The email from BG provided a complaint reference number and confirmed that 
an investigation of the complaint would take place. It also mentioned that its aim was to 
complete all investigations and respond to the complaint within eight weeks. Although, I accept that this was a relatively standard letter, I cant say that BG failed to acknowledge Mr 
and Mrs Fs complaint. 
I have examined the evidence regarding the timeframe for acceptance of the offer and I dont 
think it was unreasonable. In the emailed offer BG stipulated that the acceptance of the offer 
could be made either by telephone or via email. I accept that because Mr and Mrs F were 
away from home, telephoning wouldve been difficult. 
But, Mr F managed to email BG as he confirmed that he was inclined not to accept the 
offer.  So I think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs F to communicate with BG via email 
(which they did) within the seven-day period of acceptance. 
Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed with this outcome, I think that BG 
hadnt breached the terms of the contract and had acted fairly. Accordingly, there is nothing 
further that I can reasonably ask it to do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given. I am satisfied 
that the £65.00 that British Gas Insurance Limited has already paid is fair and reasonable. 
So, I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman