DRN-3069319
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited (Arch)
declined a claim made against its business protection insurance policy.
Mr E, who is a director of G, brings the complaint on Gs behalf.
What happened
G had the benefit of a business protection policy, which included cover for mobile plant
machinery. In September 2019 one of the machines caught fire overnight, causing significant
damage to the trommel. G made a claim to Arch for the cost of replacing the damaged parts
of the machine.
Arch considered the claim but said that a policy warranty was breached and therefore no 
cover was available. It said the warranty required that all combustible stock and waste 
material is removed from trommelsovernight. Archs investigating agent found traces of 
compost, which it says is a combustible material, in the trommel and believes that was the 
most likely cause of the fire  so Arch declined the claim.
G said that Arch had previously advised it that compostable materials arent combustible, so
it doesnt think its fair for Arch to rely on the warranty to decline the claim. G highlighted that
it had requested clarification of this specific point when the policy was renewed and was told
that green waste is not considered readily combustible. In addition, G raised concerns
about the testimony that was taken by the investigating agent from a member of staff who
doesnt speak English.
Arch considered the complaint but didnt agree. It said that the comment made in a risk
assessment about compostable materials not being combustible was made in regard to a
different warranty and so isnt relevant. And it said that, while green waste is not readily
combustible, it is still combustible, so it didnt think the information it had provided to G was
incorrect. Mr E didnt agree so brought a complaint to this service.
On 20 September 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it I said:
When considering whether a claim should be paid, the starting point is the wording of the
policy and schedule. The policy contains a warranty which states:
Waste clear-up  daily operations
YOU must ensure that all combustible STOCK and WASTE is removed from
trommels shredders hopper feeds and balers OVERNIGHT
The fire report found traces of combustible material in the trommel from the previous day
and believes this was the likely cause of the fire. While it is clear from the evidence and the
recorded interview with Mr E that he takes great care to comply with the terms of his
insurance policy, on this occasion I think Arch was fair in reaching the conclusion that
combustible material had been left in the trommel overnight and therefore the warranty was
breached.
However, I have also considered Mr Es comments about what had been discussed during a
risk survey when the policy was incepted. The written notes from the site visit state:
WM14 - Combustible Waste - 6 metres
It is a Warranty of the Policy that all combustible Waste Material is stored at least 6
metres from any fixed or mobile plant. It is noted within the policy that the minimum 6
metres storage distance can be reduced if there is a non-combustible partition or wall
between the combustible Waste Material and the Machinery.
ACTION:
Survey discussions confirmed that for the purposes of this policy:
 Unprocessed & processed wood material is considered to be "combustible".
 Unprocessed & processed material for composting is considered to be "non-combustible".
(The possibility of self-heating is well recognised and is necessary for the sterilisation
process)
WM14 only applies ...
While Arch states that these comments refer to a different warranty, the notes are clear that
a conversation took place between Archs agent and Mr E in which the agent told Mr E that
material for composting is considered to be non-combustible. From the interview with Mr E
following the fire, which I have listened to, it is clear that this is how he had interpreted this
previous conversation.
Moreover, although this guidance might have been intended for a different warranty, the
notes of the site visit clearly state that material for composting is considered to be non-
combustible for the purposes of this policy. The wording doesnt state that this
interpretation is only for the purpose of that particular warranty. So I can understand why
Mr E was under the assumption that Arch considered composting material to be non-
combustible for the purposes of the whole policy.
Following risk assessments are silent on this point but Mr Es broker did contact the insurer
at the point of renewal a couple of years after this risk assessment and asked again: The
insurers have always classed only the wood waste as combustable (sic) waste. Is this still
the case? Please confirm please.
The insurer responded: With regards to wood waste, yes this is combustible but green
waste is not considered readily combustible.
Arch argues that it didnt confirm that green waste wasnt combustible, rather that it wasnt
readily combustible. And therefore it is still considered combustible for the applicable
warranty. However, I find that interpretation to be misleading  had Arch considered green
waste to be combustible then I would have expected it to answer the question clearly and
explain that to the insurance broker. It is very clear from the phrasing used by the insurance
broker that they are under the impression that green waste wasnt considered to be
combustible at all.
My role is to reach an outcome that I believe is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
this complaint. And while I agree that it is likely the warranty in the policy wording was
breached, I think Arch provided misleading and incorrect information to G, which Mr E has
relied on when renewing his policy and in the steps he has taken to mitigate the risk of green
material igniting. So, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Arch acted fairly in relying
on this warranty to decline the claim.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and neither party provided any additional 
comments. So the complaint has now been passed back to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As both parties accepted my provisional decision and neither party has provided any further 
comments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
As I explained previously, I agree that based on the fire report, its likely that the warranty in 
the policy wording was breached. However I think Arch provided G with misleading and 
incorrect information which Mr E relied on when renewing the policy and in the steps he took 
to mitigate the risk of green material igniting. So, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable for Arch to rely on the warranty to decline the claim. 
Putting things right
Arch should put things right by:
Reconsidering the claim under the remaining terms of the policy.
If Arch makes a payment to G in respect of the claim, it should also pay simple 
interest on that amount from the date the claim was first declined to the date the 
payment is made. The rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Arch Insurance (UK) Limited should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman