DRN-3886398
The complaint
Mrs W complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly reported misleading 
information which now shows on her CUE record.
What happened
Mrs W contacted her insurer, AXA, in 2021, shortly after discovering that the area around a 
retaining wall had begun to sink. The condition of the wall had deteriorated and it had 
partially collapsed.
AXA said a surveyor would visit the property to assess the problem. The surveyor confirmed 
that the incident wouldnt be covered by the policy as there had been no landslip, heave or 
subsidence. However, AXA proceeded to register on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) that there had been a landslide in the garden.
Unhappy about this, Mrs W made a complaint to AXA. She said she was never advised that 
AXA would categorise the enquiry she made in this way, and that they had not suffered any 
loss.
AXA said that when it asks customers whether theyve had any claims or losses, this 
includes damage that has resulted in them considering making a claim, but not going 
through with it. So even though they didnt pursue the matter further, industry standards are 
that any losses (including those incidents where a claim hasnt been made) are significant in 
predicting the likelihood of a customer claiming in the future. So they are recorded on CUE 
as such.
Mrs W remained unhappy with AXAs response and referred the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. She 
said that whilst she could appreciate why Mrs W was unhappy, the insurer had acted in line 
with our expectations in recording the loss on CUE as it was a potential claim/loss. 
Because Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint was passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I initially reviewed this complaint, I contacted AXA to find out whether it had recorded 
the information on CUE correctly. In particular, I wanted to find out whether the potential loss 
couldve been categorised as something other than subsidence, heave, or landslip as none 
of those insured perils had taken place in this case. The description on CUE also stated that 
there had been a landslide in the garden, which is factually incorrect as that turned out not to 
be the case. 
I requested that AXA send me screenshots of the various options that were available when 
recording a loss on CUE. These screenshots were sent to me on 12 July 2022. However, 
these did not show the full drop down list and only contained options such as accidental 
damage and accidental loss. From the screenshot, I can see that many other options 
wouldve been available under the drop down list. So Im not satisfied AXA has acted fairly 
here.
Whilst I agree that an enquiry wouldve needed to be logged as this is industry practice 
whether a claim is made or not, I dont think its fair for AXA to have categorised the enquiry 
as landslip, heave or subsidence, or to include these terms in the incident description. On 12 
July I spoke to an agent at AXA who confirmed that the incident description had been 
amended and that the record had been changed to accidental damage with no loss 
recorded and no insured peril  and that this was the most that could be done since Mrs W 
had called to make an enquiry about a loss. I confirmed that this felt like a fair outcome to 
the complaint.
However, since then, Ive requested copies of the CUE record and these have not shown 
any amendment to the original submission. In an email dated 25 November 2022 from this 
service to AXA, it was made clear that unless we receive a screenshot of the CUE record 
which reflects that the required changes have been made, or evidence that those changes 
have been submitted to CUE by AXA, then this complaint would proceed to a final decision.
As we did not hear back from AXA, my final decision is that it now needs to amend the CUE 
record as agreed during the telephone call on 12 July 2022.
Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc must now amend the CUE record for this customer, to reflect that no 
subsidence, heave or landslip occurred, and it must remove these terms from the CUE 
record entirely. 
It must also send a copy of the CUE record to this service and to Mrs W once the CUE 
record has reflected this change.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman