DRN-3424305
The complaint
Mr W complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his online account access 
problem.
What happened
Mr W says he couldnt remember his security codes to access his online HSBC banking. He 
says he e-mailed HSBC for help but didnt receive the information to access his account. Mr 
W says he is unable to attend a branch or speak to HSBC on the telephone. He says he told 
HSBC about the problem in June 2021 and again in October 2021. Mr W would like account 
access, an apology and compensation.
HSBC says Mr W told it about the problem in June 2021 and it told him what he needed to 
do. It says it explained how to get a new account key. HSBC says Mr W made contact again 
with it in October 2021 and it ordered a new key as well as apologising that Mr W didnt 
receive the earlier one.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC had explained what Mr W needed to do for account access on 8 June 2021 
and that Mr W had replied on 16 June 2021 saying that he had done it. The investigator 
thought when Mr W told HSBC in October 2021 that there was still a problem that HSBC 
apologised that he hadnt received the key and ordered a new one. The investigator didnt 
think HSBC had made a mistake.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says he sent a chaser e-mail to HSBC about the delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision. I make clear to Mr W that I have 
looked at all of the e-mails he has sent to us and confirm they match the information HSBC 
holds on its records about this complaint.
I can see from all of the records that Mr W told HSBC that he had an account access 
problem on 5 June 2021. I can see that HSBC responded some three days later and 
explained what Mr W needed to do. And that Mr W replied to that letter telling HSBC I done 
itordered key. So, Im satisfied that HSBC did try and help Mr W in June 2021 and 
responded straight away to the problem. Im also satisfied that HSBC could reasonably 
assume from Mr Ws e-mail of 16 June 2021 that he had taken the necessary steps he was 
required to do. 
I cant see any record of contact between HSBC and Mr W until October 2021 when Mr W 
again raised the issue of account access. I dont think HSBC could reasonably have known 
there was still a problem unless Mr W told it. And I would have expected Mr W to have 
contacted HSBC in or around late June 2021 if he was still waiting for the key and or still had 
access problems. I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for that delay and so it follows that I 
dont think it should pay compensation for that delay.
I can see that when Mr W told HSBC that there was still a problem in October 2021 that 
HSBC again responded in a matter of days and took steps to sort out the access problem. I 
can see from HSBCs records that Mr W does now appear to be able to access his online 
account.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC tried to help Mr W in June and October 2021 but couldnt 
have known there was still a problem following the steps it took in early June 2021. I 
appreciate Mr W says he sent a chaser e-mail to HSBC. But the only record I can see on 
either parties records is the email Mr W sent on 16 June 2021 which I dont think could be 
regarded as a chaser e-mail when it simply says  I did it rather than saying there was still 
an issue. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman