DRN-3669563
The complaint
Mr D complains that Zurich Insurance PLC have provided poor service when investigating a 
claim made on his property.
What happened
Mr Ds property is a leasehold with his insurance provided as part of a block insurance. In 
2019, Mr D made a claim under the policy for damage caused from an escape of water. The 
work was completed in late 2019.
In August 2020, Mr D contacted Zurich to inform it that the flooring repair had started to fail 
with concerns that there was a further escape of water. Zurich appointed the original 
contractor to revisit the property and inspect the cause of the damage. This didnt establish a 
cause despite multiple visits.
Over a period of 11 months, Zurich appointed a number of contractors to attempt to find the 
source of the leak and damage. Mr D complained about the service and lack of progress in 
identifying the cause of damage. In June 2021, Zurich appointed a loss adjuster to take over 
the claim and it investigated the source of the leak. This identified the concrete slab which 
made up the flooring beneath the laminate was constructed of red ash. The type of 
construction here meant it was more likely moisture from the soil below was being absorbed 
into the concrete giving inflated moisture levels at different points as no damp proof 
membrane would have been laid when the property was constructed. This was due to the 
building regulations at the time giving no requirement of this.
Zurich felt the repair work to the flooring slab was not its liability. The leasehold agreement 
shows that the freeholder  the local authority  is responsible for damage to the roof and 
foundations.  But it has agreed to cover the internal damage and provided a cash settlement 
for this amount.
Mr D has accepted this outcome, although he feels Zurich could have done more to provide 
evidence of the red ash construction. A visual inspection only, didnt give complete certainty 
on this. But he is unhappy with the delays in it reaching this answer. He says this has added 
a great deal of stress to him and his wife, not knowing what the outcome will be. Zurich has 
made three payments over the cause of this claim for service, delays and inconvenience  in 
total it has paid £1000 to Mr D for this.
Our investigator said that she felt Zurich had acted fairly with the payments made to reflect 
the delays and she didnt think it needed to go further.
Mr D disagreed, he didnt think all of the payments were made for the issue of delays and he 
highlighted why he felt this related to customer service failings with the handling of this 
matter. Our investigator believed it was fair to consider these all together and didnt think her 
opinion needed to be reviewed.
As Mr D disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know Mr D will be disappointed by this, but Ill 
explain how Ive reached this decision.
It is accepted by both sides that there was a significant delay in Zurich identifying the issue 
at Mr Ds property. And that the repair work required to the foundation isnt the liability of 
Zurich. What is still questioned is whether the steps Zurich took to rectify this delay are fair.
I know Mr D doesnt agree that the payments made on two occasions when the claim was 
still being investigated should be considered with the delays overall, but I do think they are 
relevant. Zurich demonstrated with the actions taken that it was engaged on the claim and 
keen to identify the damage. But it also understood that the delays were causing an issue for 
Mr D and his wife. 
With home insurance claims there is always a level of inconvenience, by their nature the 
work and action are often intrusive and it can take time to first identify issues and then repair 
them. This needs to be taken account of when thinking about the level of the inconvenience 
with the delays and the impact of this. The poor communication has added to the delays and 
while some payments made reference to the lack of communication specifically over delays, 
they do reflect these.
The awards this service makes are based on the impact on the customer. Mr D has 
explained how the lack of knowledge on the cause of the damaged caused him and his wife 
anxiety and I dont doubt this. After having their home repaired for it to then be damaged 
again so soon after, would be upsetting and they rightly wanted to know what was causing 
this.  I sympathise that they likely have more inconvenience to come as the repair works for 
the foundations will be needed too. But I do think the award made is fair overall. Like our 
investigator, I agree the previous awards made for service failings on the handling of this 
claim should be included when thinking about this award. With this in mind, I think Zurich has 
made a fair and reasonable award for the distress caused by its actions on the handling of 
this complaint and I dont think it would be fair to ask it to increase this.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Zurich Insurance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman