DRN-3752961
The complaint
Mrs O says American Express Services Europe Limited, has treated her unfairly in relation 
to a transaction on her credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
In July 2020 Mrs O used her American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex for short) 
credit card to make payment for flights with an airline. Mrs O was due to fly in August 2020. 
Mrs O then says government-imposed restrictions meant she could not fly, so she didnt. But 
the airline said the flights took place and were non-refundable. So it didnt refund her. So she 
complained to Amex.
Amex considered what happened. It says that the flights were available to Mrs O and could 
have been used as the flights took place. It noted the restrictions were in relation to 
quarantine rules particularly on return to the UK. And as the flights were non-refundable it 
didnt feel it should do any more. So Mrs O brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Amex didnt have to do anymore. And Mrs O remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O used her Amex credit card to pay for the flights. This meant that if certain criteria are 
met Amex can have certain responsibilities to Mrs O which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain 
circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mrs O to hold Amex liable for breaches 
of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence 
Amex can be held responsible for a like claim against the Airline.
Also Mrs Os Amex credit card is part of a card scheme. And this scheme has rules which 
includes giving Amex a route for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as 
the Airline, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers. and it 
is possible that chargeback could be ultimately unsuccessful without Amex having done 
anything wrong.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Amex and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mrs O fairly. This decision isnt about the Airline, 
which isnt within this Services remit for complaints about Chargeback and S75. I hope this 
distinction is clear.
could Amex challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mrs O originally disputed making this transaction. Amex looked into this and noted the 
transaction was properly authorised and paid for tickets that were in the name of Mrs O and 
her family to travel abroad. Mrs O no longer disputes the amount, date, or any other details 
about the transaction itself or that she authorised it. So I dont think Amex couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mrs O didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Amex is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Amex considered chargeback here but didnt pursue it. It says it considered the matter and 
noted that Mrs O accepts she didnt board the flight. And it points to the terms and conditions 
of the flight tickets which were non-refundable and the fact that the flights took place. So 
Amex says it didnt take a chargeback further because it felt that such a chargeback would 
not have a reasonable prospect of success.
Ive looked at the Airlines terms and conditions and I can see these tickets were non-
refundable. Ive also considered the evidence that shows the flights took place as scheduled. 
So Ive seen no persuasive reason that the chargeback would have been successful. So I 
dont think Mrs O has lost out here as a result of Amex.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here, there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. I think both the DCS arrangement is in place and the financial limits criteria are 
met also. So Amex does have to consider whether there is a breach of contract or a material 
misrepresentation when considering the claim. And for Amex to be held accountable under a 
like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the Airline either breached the contract or 
materially misrepresented something to Mrs O which was untrue and that led to loss.
Mrs O says she couldnt fly due to the restrictions that were put in place. But the Airline nor 
Amex were responsible for these restrictions. And the flights paid for did take place. So the 
Airline provided the services that Mrs O agreed to and paid for. Whether or not Mrs O could 
or couldnt fly, the restrictions were not the Airlines responsibility and thus neither was it 
Amexs. And Mrs O had opted to purchase non-refundable tickets. So it follows that there 
would be no refund.
Im not persuaded that Amex has treated Mrs O unfairly here. Just because the restrictions 
were in place doesnt make it fair for Amex to carry this cost, particularly considering it hadnt 
done anything wrong.
Mrs O says you are basically saying that I should have ignored government advice and 
flown in the middle of a pandemic. Thats not the case. My position is that Amex hasnt done 
anything wrong, so I see no persuasive reason to bear the cost of these flights that Mrs O 
bought on a non-refundable basis and didnt use. 
Just because Mrs O has lost out doesnt mean its fair for Amex to cover the cost of these 
flights. It has to have done something wrong to make it fair that it bears this cost. And Im 
satisfied it hasnt done so.
Mrs O has said the Investigator hasnt looked at the facts. There is no dispute that there 
were government restrictions in place. And I understand why Mrs O chose not to fly, 
particularly noting the requirement to quarantine. But neither the restrictions nor the pandemic were Amexs fault. And as Im not persuaded that Amex has done anything wrong 
I dont see any persuasive reason for it to pick up the cost of Mrs Os non-refundable tickets.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision which Mrs O wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mrs Os avenues for recouping the cost of the flights will be significantly 
limited. But this does not mean that Amex has done anything wrong in dealing with the 
issues arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund her.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mrs O has said, Im not persuaded 
Amex has treated Mrs O unfairly. So I dont think Amex has done anything else wrong here 
which requires further action. And as a consequence Ive decided that Mrs Os complaint 
shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman