DRN-3754132
The complaint
Mr H and Miss I complain about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) 
rejecting a claim under their pet insurance policy for treatment to their dog, because it was 
overweight.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr H and Miss Is dog was diagnosed with diabetes following a visit to a 
vet. While further tests were being carried out to determine any other underlying conditions, 
Mr H and Miss I submitted a claim for the initial diagnosis and tests (£306.29). 
However, they were contacted by CG to say that the information provided with the claim 
indicated the dog had a high Body Condition Score (BCS) indicating the dog was 
overweight. Because of this CG said they wouldnt accept the claim. 
Unhappy at the rejection of her claim, Mr H and Miss I complained to CG. But they didnt 
uphold the complaint. In their final response they said when Mr H and Miss I took out their 
policy, the terms and conditions made it clear it wouldnt provide cover if a pet was 
overweight and had an associated condition. CG noted the dogs clinical history (from the 
policy inception in July 2018) indicated it was overweight and the vet advised some weight 
loss (January 2020). CG also noted the dogs BCS was 7/9 in December 2020 (compared 
with an ideal BCS of 5/9) and 8/9 in April 2021. Diabetes was diagnosed in November 2021. 
CG acknowledged the cause of diabetes wasnt completely certain, it was known being 
overweight could increase the risk of diabetes developing. And studies had shown being 
overweight could lead to diabetes (as being overweight causes cells in the body to become 
more resistant to insulin, which in turn leads to the development of diabetes). Given the 
dogs history of being overweight, CG confirmed their decline of the claim.
Unhappy at CGs response, Mr H and Miss I complained to this service. The main part of 
their complaint was that CG had unfairly declined her claim on the grounds their dog was 
overweight. However, the vet had said the dogs weight wasnt a precursor to developing 
diabetes, rather it was more likely due to the dogs age and other underlying conditions. And 
further tests showed the dog had Cushings disease1, which was more likely to have caused 
the diabetes. Theyd incurred over £2,000 in vet costs for tests and treatment, with monthly 
medication costs of £150 and bi-monthly tests and vet fees of £192. They said theyd taken 
out the policy in good faith and felt let down by CGs decline of their claim. They wanted CG 
to accept their claim and reinstate their policy (for both of their dogs).Or refund the premiums 
theyd paid for the policy.
Our investigator upheld Mr H and Miss Is complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly by 
using the exclusion relating to a dog being overweight to decline the claim. He noted the vet 
1 Cushings disease is where too much of the hormone cortisol is produced. Cortisol is produced and stored by 
the adrenals, two small glands that sit on top of the kidneys. Dogs, cats {and humans} can develop the disease, 
although it is more commonly found in dogs than cats.
said it couldnt be determined the dogs weight caused the diabetes (which CG also 
recognized). Also the policy wording didnt indicate that cover wouldnt be provided where the 
condition could have been caused by the dogs weight, or the weight could have been a 
factor. As Mr H and Miss I had cancelled their direct debit by which they were paying for their 
policy, and the investigator thought CG had unfairly declined the claim, he thought CG 
should reinstate the policy. The investigator also thought CG should settle the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (with interest from the date Mr H and 
Miss I paid the cost of treatment to the date CG reimbursed her. 
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they referred to the policy condition about a dog being overweight. 
They also referred to publicly available sources indicating the link between a dog being 
overweight  and its impact on the risk of developing diabetes. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Mr H and Miss I. 
The main issue in Mr H and Miss Is complaint is whether CG acted fairly in declining her 
claim by applying the policy exclusion for her dog being overweight. Mr H and Miss I says 
CG acted unfairly in applying the exclusion, as the vet had said the dogs weight wasnt a 
precursor to developing diabetes, rather it was more likely due to the dogs age and other 
underlying conditions. And further tests showed the dog had Cushings disease2, which was 
more likely to have caused the diabetes. 
CG say it was fair to use the exclusion to decline Mr H and Miss Is claim. They refer, firstly, 
to the dogs clinical history indicating it was overweight. Secondly, the dogs BCS was 
greater than the ideal. Thirdly, CG acknowledge the cause of diabetes isnt completely 
certain, but being overweight could increase the risk of diabetes developing. And studies had 
shown being overweight could lead to diabetes.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including the clinical history of Mr H and Miss Is dog and the 
opinion of the vet. Looking at the policy terms and conditions first, CG refer to the Insurance 
Product Information Document that states:
What is not insured?
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and 
this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet. 
The policy terms and conditions include a similar exclusion for Veterinary Fees as part of 
any claim for illness or accidental injury. 
The first point to consider is whether Mr H and Miss Is dog was overweight. The dogs 
medical history indicates its weight has fluctuated between 14.1kg (May 2016) to 18.0kg 
2 Cushings disease is where too much of the hormone cortisol is produced. Cortisol is produced and stored by 
the adrenals, two small glands that sit on top of the kidneys. Dogs, cats {and humans} can develop the disease, 
although it is more commonly found in dogs than cats.(April 2021) but15.2kg at the time the diabetes was diagnosed (November 2021). CG have 
cited the BCS score of 7/9 as indicating a dog is markedly overweight. However, Mr H and 
Miss Is vet disputes the accuracy of the recorded BCS scores when they examined the dog 
in April 2021 (where the recorded weight was slightly less on the second visit in the month 
than the first). But the BCS increased from 7/9 to 8/9. 
Ive also considered that the dogs recorded weight was 15.8kg and 15.2kg when examined 
(and diabetes diagnosed) in November 2021). While BCS scores arent recorded at this 
date, its likely that the reduction in weight would suggest a better BCS score (or at least the 
dog was less overweight than its weight in April 2021 would indicate). So, while the dog may 
have been overweight (or markedly overweight) earlier in its history, this would have been 
less significant at the point it was diagnosed with diabetes.
The second point to consider is whether the dogs weight led to the diagnosis of diabetes, 
and therefore whether it was reasonable for CG to apply the exclusion to decline the claim. 
As a general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus is on them to show 
its reasonable to apply it. 
However, Im not persuaded CG acted fairly and reasonably in applying the overweight 
exclusion to decline the claim. I say that because the policy wording above (my emphasis in 
bold) refers to claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight 
and this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet.
Given this wording, the onus is on CG to show the claim (treatment) was caused by the dog 
being overweight. CG acknowledge the cause of diabetes isnt completely certain but being 
overweight could increase the risk of diabetes developing. And studies had shown being 
overweight could lead to diabetes. However, reference to could and the cause of diabetes 
not being completely certain doesnt persuade me this is clearly the cause (or main cause) of 
diabetes in Mr H and Miss Is dog  
Ive also considered the opinion of Mr H and Miss Is vet, whose statement contained the 
following:
There are several different causes that can lead to the development of diabetes, 
these factors can include age, gender, possible pancreatitis, medication, genetics 
etc.
It is not correct to assume that diabetes developed just because of one factor  [the 
dogs] weight, and especially not due to the body condition score.
Body score measurement in my professional opinion is not accurate and 
judgemental.
Ive also considered the subsequent diagnosis of Cushings Disease as the more likely 
cause of diabetes.
Looking at the additional information and evidence provided by CG when responding to our 
investigators view. Ive focused on the information and studies linking weight to diabetes. 
Looking at the studies, as well as the references included in CGs final response, one of the 
studies3 lists a number that make a dog at risk of diabetes. These include age, sex, 
pancreatitis, obesity, steroid medications, Cushings disease, other health conditions and 
genetics. These are very similar to those factors included in Mr H and Miss Is vet opinion. 
3 American Kennel Club, Diabetes in Dogs: Symptoms, Causes & TreatmentTaking these points together, they are consistent with the view that being overweight is one 
factor that may lead to diabetes. But there are a range of factors that are also potential 
causes. However, this is not the same as being overweight will lead to diabetes (or be the 
direct, sole or main cause). 
Taking all these points into account, while being overweight may have been likely to 
increase the risk of diabetes, Im not persuaded CG have shown enough to apply the 
exclusion in the circumstances of this case. Particularly given the absence of any clear 
evidence of weight as the direct (or main) cause. So, Ive concluded CG acted unfairly to 
apply the exclusion to decline Mr H and Miss Is claim.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for the dog being overweight, then they should 
reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including 
any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate). 
If CG accept the claim following their reassessment, they should also pay interest at a rate of 
8% simple on the amount accepted, from the date of their original rejection of the claim, to 
the date they accept it. 
The other issue Ive considered is that, given the decline of their claim, Mr H and Miss I 
suspended payment of their policy premiums, which then led to CG cancelling the policy 
(non-payment of premiums would be grounds to cancel the policy under its terms and 
conditions). As I  have concluded CG acted unfairly in declining the claim, I think it would be 
fair and reasonable for CG to offer Mr H and Miss I the opportunity to reinstate the policy, if 
they would wish to do so. If they do so, it would also be reasonable for CG to ask for the 
outstanding premiums to be made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr H and Miss Is complaint. 
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Reassess Mr H and Miss Is claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy, including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as 
appropriate).
Offer to reinstate Mr H and Miss Is policy, if they wish to do so. If they do so, it would 
also be reasonable for CG to ask for the outstanding premiums to be made
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd accept the claim following their 
reassessment, they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount accepted, 
from the date of their original rejection of the claim, to the date they accept it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss I to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman