DRN-1844202
The complaint
Mr J has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
What happened
A motorist contacted Admiral and alleged that Mr J was involved in an accident on 
1 December 2018. They claimed that Mr J caused damage to their car. Mr J denied any 
involvement and said he was elsewhere at the time. Admiral defended the claim.
Mr J complained about Admirals service. He said they have been negligent; they havent 
investigated properly; they racially profiled him; they provided a photo of him to the other 
drivers insurer; they paid the other drivers expenses without telling him they were going to 
accept liability; they have tried to get him to admit liability; and the claim remained open for 
too long.
Admiral looked into Mr Js complaint. They said they investigated the claim reasonably and 
defended Mr Js position. But the other drivers insurer didnt withdraw the claim which was 
out of Admirals control. Admiral did accept some aspects of their service could have been 
better. In particular Admiral said they could have instructed the engineer to examine Mr Js 
car sooner than they did; they could have provided Mr J with more updates; and they gave 
him conflicting information about how the other driver got Mr Js details. To address the 
service issues Admiral paid Mr J £125 compensation. Mr J didnt think that went far enough, 
so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. He felt 
Admirals service could have been better, so he recommended they pay a further £125 
compensation. As Admiral didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it in part. Ill explain why.
Mr J said that Admiral racially profiled him. He said during a call with Admiral their call 
handler said words to the effect that all black people look the same. Admiral provided a 
copy of that call. And its clear from the call recording that the call handler didnt say that or 
anything that could be interpreted in that way. And other than what Mr J has said Ive seen 
no evidence that Admiral racially profiled Mr J in anyway. Im therefore not upholding this 
aspect of the complaint.
Mr J was unhappy that Admiral sent his photo to the other drivers insurer. The other driver 
gave a description of the person he said was Mr J as being responsible for the accident.    
Mr J told Admiral that he didnt resemble the description given. During a discussion with 
Admiral the call handler suggested to Mr J they send his photo to the other drivers insurer a 
to convince them that the other driver was mistaken in the expectation that they would 
withdraw their claim. I have listened to that call and its clear that Mr J agreed to his photo 
being sent. Im therefore not upholding this part of the complaint.
Mr J said that Admiral accepted liability without telling him and that they paid the other 
drivers expenses. But Ive seen that Admiral never accepted liability. They told us that they 
did pay the other drivers hire car costs on a without prejudice basis. But Admiral could 
retract that at a later date and claim back the amount paid. Im satisfied that Admiral didnt 
accept liability and that paying the hire car costs didnt affect Mr Js defence of the claim. Im 
therefore not upholding this part of the complaint.
Mr J said that Admiral were negligent and that they didnt investigate the claim reasonably. I 
dont agree with Mr J. Admiral: obtained the other drivers version of events together with 
their engineers report and photos of their car; instructed an engineer to examine Mr Js car 
and the damage to the other car detailed in the other drivers engineers report and photos; 
obtained from their engineer a consistency report saying the damage to the other car 
wasnt caused by Mr Js car; they told the other drivers insurer that liability was being 
disputed and they would defend Mr J in court; and they instructed a solicitor to defend the 
claim. Im therefore satisfied that Admiral investigated the claim reasonably. Im therefore not 
upholding this aspect of the claim.
Admiral accepted that their service could have been better and paid £125 compensation. 
But, like our investigator, I too think that didnt go far enough. I feel that one of the most 
concerning things was what I would describe as the conflicting information Admiral gave 
Mr J in relation to their view about the strength of his defence. Mr J said that initially he was 
led to believe that his defence that he wasnt involved was strong. But later Admiral changed 
their stance and suggested his defence wasnt so good and that a court might find he was 
involved in the accident. It was Admirals apparent change in stance that led Mr J to feel that 
they were trying to make him admit liability. Its clear that Admirals suggestion the evidence 
might not support Mr Js defence caused him the most distress. In their file notes Admiral 
acknowledged their conflicting positions by saying they agreed there have been
mixed messages and one of the claims handlers said, I agreed with [Mr Js] points that he 
has been misled throughout. Mr J was clear from the start that he wasnt involved in the 
accident and he felt very strongly about Admiral defending him until the end. And he was told 
the engineering evidence was in his favour as it said his car hadnt caused the damage to 
the other car. So, I can see why he was upset when he was told a court might hold him 
responsible for the accident. Im therefore upholding this aspect of Mr Js complaint and 
require Admiral to pay him a further £125 compensation to address his distress and 
inconvenience.
Finally, Mr J told us in June 2020 that the other driver withdrew their claim. Mr J was 
unhappy that the matter went on for as long as it did. He was also unhappy that his policy 
renewed twice while the claim was open. He said his premiums during those renewals were 
higher because of the open claim. Im aware that Mr J felt Admiral were responsible for the 
claim remaining open for so long. But I dont think thats the case. Thats because Admiral 
had no control over the other driver or their insurer. It was the other driver who made the 
claim therefore it was for them to prove liability and there was little action Admiral could 
realistically take in the meantime. Often a driver making a claim has a number of years in 
which to take their claim to court. And in the meantime, Admiral and Mr J had no option but 
to wait until the claim was taken to court or dropped. Ive seen that Admiral sent the 
evidence in support of Mr Js defence to the other drivers insurer and Admiral asked them 
on a number of occasions if they would withdraw their claim. But other then that I dont think 
Admiral could have done much more.And its insurance industry practice that while a claim is open an insurer will treat it as a fault 
claim when calculating a renewal premium. And that leads to the cost of the premium being 
higher. I know Mr J was particularly aggrieved by that. But Admiral told him that once the 
claim closed either by it being withdrawn or by Mr J succeeding in defending it in court, 
Admiral would retrospectively recalculate his renewal premiums and refund him any 
increases as appropriate.
Putting things right
Admiral must pay Mr J a further £125 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr J a further £125 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that 
Mr J has accepted my final decision. If they pay later than that they must also pay interest on 
that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.1
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman
1 If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr J how much they have taken off. They should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 