DRN-3786828
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) is refusing to refund him the amount he lost 
as the result of a scam. 
Mr S is being represented by a third party but to keep things simple I will refer to Mr S 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr S had previously invested with a company called AXI in 2020. He had made 
some money and made withdrawals from his investment. Mr S then started to make some 
losses and decided not to invest any more. Mr S told us he accumulated around £10,000 
over the time he was investing,
In June 2021 Mr S received a call from a business called Audiba (X). X appeared to hold a 
lot of information about Mr S including his previous trading history with AXI. X said Mr S had 
been the victim of a scam carried out by AXI and that it had been working to get customers 
of AXI their money back. X offered to help Mr S receive the compensation he was entitled to, 
taking payment for its services on a no win no fee basis.
Mr S did some independent research on X and decided to accept the offer. 
After building up confidence with Mr S and giving him regular updates about his case X 
explained it had won a court case with AXI and as the value of Bitcoin had increased, he 
was entitled to over $100.000. Mr S was advised he had to set up a private cryptocurrency 
wallet so that he could receive the funds in Bitcoin. 
Mr S set up an account with Blockchain so that he could receive the funds he was entitled to 
and made two small payments to X to check the process worked as it was expected to. X 
also provided a link to its website showing funds in Mr Ss account held with it.
X then explained Mr S would need to make payments equal to a percentage of his 
compensation into his account with X to release the funds. Mr S made several payments as 
directed by X.
There was a gap in communication between Mr S and X, but eventually X came back to Mr 
S explaining that the value of Bitcoin had increased further, and it would need one further 
payment from him before his funds could be released.
Still persuaded by X that he would receive the funds, and not having sufficient funds to make 
any more payments, Mr S went to a Lloyds branch to request a loan.
When Mr S explained what had happened and his reasons for making a loan application the 
scam was uncovered. 
Mr S made the following payments to X via the cryptocurrency exchanges Blockchain and 
Modular:
1. 7 July 2021 - £20 - Blockchain - debit card
2. 9 July 2021 - £10  Blockchain - debit card
3. 28 July 2021 - £20 Modular - faster payment
4. 28 July 2021 - £5 Modular - faster payment
5. 29 July 2021 - £550 Modular - faster payment
6. 30 July 2021 - £250 Modular - faster payment
7. 17 August 2021 - £1,000 Modular - faster payment
8. 18 August 2021 - £1,300 Modular - faster payment
9. 18 August 2021 - £125 Modular - faster payment
10. 27 August 2021 - £2,100 Modular - faster payment
11. 28 August 2021 - £60 Modular - faster payment
12. 13 September 2021 - £3,000 Modular - faster payment
13. 27 September 2021 - £1,550 Modular - faster payment
14. 27 September 2021 - £130 Modular - faster payment 
Mr S has been unable to recover any of the funds he sent to X and feels Lloyds should have 
done more to protect him from the scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ss complaint but thought Lloyds had acted fairly by not 
refunding the payments Mr S had made in relation to the scam. As Mr S disagreed this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds was unable to process a chargeback for the debit card payments Mr S made in 
relation to this scam to Blockchain.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr S was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr S didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(Blockchain). This is important because Lloyds was only able to process chargeback claims 
against the merchant he paid (Blockchain), not another party (such as X).
The service provided by Blockchain would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Ss payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Blockchain provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr S paid. As Blockchain 
provided the requested service to Mr S any chargeback attempt would likely fail.The remaining payments Mr S made to X were also sent through a third-party 
cryptocurrency exchange. These payments were made via the method of faster payment. 
These payments would not be covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code as the CRM code does not apply to payments made to an account in the same name 
as the person making the payment. As such Im satisfied the CRM Code wouldnt apply in 
this scenario.
Mr S has accepted he authorised the payments he made, so the starting point here is that 
Mr S is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have 
a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Lloyds should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments Mr S was making.
Mr S made a total of 14 payments to X between 7 July 2021 and 27 September 2021. This 
was a substantial period. The payments were spaced out over a three-month period showing 
that Mr S was making regular payments to a business he trusted and none of the payments 
were for a significant enough value that I would have expected Lloyds fraud prevention 
systems to have been triggered.
I understand Mr S had not made payments to the cryptocurrency exchanges before and Mr 
S feel this should have prompted Lloyds to step in when he made the payments. But it would 
not be reasonable for me to say Lloyds should step in every time one of its customers starts 
to pay a new business. Especially when that business appears to be legitimate, and the 
payment amounts are relatively low.
Mr S has also informed us that he was a vulnerable customer with visual impairments 
meaning he had arrangements in place with Lloyds to provide its communication in larger 
prints. While I can appreciate the difficulties these impairments would cause Mr S I havent 
seen any previous request from Mr S to Lloyds to make additional checks on his account 
when payments are made by him, or any reason why this would be required.
For the reason explained above I dont think Lloyds fraud prevention systems would 
reasonably have been triggered by the payments Mr S made in relation to the scam. Lloyds 
would not have been aware the scam was taking place, so it did not miss an opportunity to 
prevent it. I dont think Lloyds was responsible for Mr Ss loss and it does not have to provide 
any refunds of the payments Mr S made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman