DRN-3371757
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold a mortgage by a broker working for BDS Mortgage 
Group. Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd (AMF) is responding to this complaint as the 
successor firm. Mr Ds complaint is brought by his sister, Ms D, on his behalf.
Ms D says that the mortgage sold by the broker was unsuitable for Mr Ds needs, and that
the application made to the lender contained fabricated information about Mr Ds situation.
This included incorrect information overstating Mr Ds earnings.
Ms D says her brother has suffered financial hardship for many years as a result of the
mortgage being sold. Ms D suspects that the broker conspired with the vendor of the
property to exploit Mr D, who has (and, at all material times, had) learning difficulties. Ms D
says her brother is also concerned about what will happen when the interest only mortgage
term ends and she worries about his future.
Ms D wants fair compensation for the broker mis-selling the mortgage to her brother. She
estimates this to be around £100,000.
What happened
In 2006 Mr D took out an interest only mortgage for around £150,000, having received 
advice from a broker working for BDS Mortgage Group. AMF has said that under a historic 
agreement it would respond and accept responsibility for complaints which arose before they 
were appointed representatives of the network. AMF has responded to and accepts 
responsibility for this complaint.
Mr D was sold an interest only mortgage over a 20 year term. The mortgage is due to expire 
in 2026. The mortgage was provided on a self-certification basis. The mortgage was taken 
out on a two year fixed rate of 5.19% until 31 March 2008, after which time it reverted onto a 
standard reversionary rate (SVR).
Since taking out the mortgage Mr D has struggled at times to meet the monthly interest 
payments. Ms D has said in 2007 Mr D was seriously injured and needed major surgery. 
This meant that Mr D was unable to work for a long period of time due to chronic ill health. 
The mortgage fell into arrears at times although Mr D did manage to get support from the 
Department of Work and Pensions to pay mortgage interest from November 2007. In recent 
years Mr D has become well enough to work again. Hes been making mortgage payments 
without needing benefit payments.
In 2019 Ms D complained to AMF that Mr D had been mis-sold the mortgage. There were a 
variety of reasons why Ms D questioned the sale and advice given. Ms D said Mr D was a 
vulnerable adult with learning difficulties. Ms D said she believed Mr D had been exploited by 
the broker and the person selling the property. She said the broker had sold Mr D a 
mortgage that was unaffordable during the term, that would leave him in 2026 with no way to 
repay the balance other than selling his home.
AMF gave its final response to this complaint on 20 September 2019. It upheld the complaint 
and said that its investigation had shown that it is likely that your brother should not have 
been recommended to take out the mortgage given the size of the loan and the required 
monthly repayments.
AMF set out what it considered would be fair compensation to put things right for Mr D. It 
offered Mr D around £37,000 for financial losses hed experienced as a result of taking out 
the mortgage. AMF also offered a further £2,500 for the trouble and upset caused by the 
brokers actions. It acknowledged that Mr D had experienced suffering while struggling to 
afford the mortgage payments and property maintenance costs over the years. And it 
recognised that Mr D would be upset by having to bring this complaint and reorganise his 
financial affairs now.
Ms D didnt think that the offer of compensation was adequate. She referred the complaint to 
us. Our investigator looked into things but AMF wouldnt give its consent for us to look into 
the complaint. It said the matter had been brought to us too late according to our rules.
I issued a jurisdiction decision on 15 June 2021 setting out why I considered we were able to 
look at this complaint now, in accordance with the FCAs time rules.
Our investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint, and whether she thought 
AMFs offer of compensation was fair and reasonable to settle the matter.
Our investigator thought that AMF needed to do more to resolve the complaint. She 
recommended that AMF and the mortgage lender (which is itself the subject of a separate 
complaint brought by Mr D) should both make payments to reduce Mr Ds mortgage balance 
down to a level where hed be able to afford to repay the remaining capital balance over an 
extended term (at an interest rate of 1.99%) before his chosen retirement date. The 
investigator thought that AMF should pay more compensation to Mr D to reduce the 
mortgage balance so he could afford to repay the mortgage by the time he reached 67.
Neither Ms D nor AMF agreed with the redress as set out by our investigator.
Ms D thought the investigators proposed way forward wasnt fair for Mr D. Ms D said, in
summary:
- What happened to her brother goes beyond typical mis-selling. This was a
conspiracy between the vendor of the property and the mortgage broker to take
advantage of a vulnerable adult for their own financial gain;
- Its unclear exactly how the investigators calculations have been made and whether
the redress calculation continues after the date of the brokers final response;
- Mr D recollects that his rent at the time the mortgage was sold may have only been
around £40-50 per week, or around £200 per month which is half the figure used by
the broker for compensation purposes. This would make a big difference to the
calculation for redress; 
- She also believes that the broker has overestimated the value of Mr Ds property
when calculating the capital gain he has made since owning the property;
- AMF had previously made a verbal offer to reduce Mr Ds mortgage to a
level more like £30-50,000 but had then gone back on this offer, and now Mr D faces
an ongoing mortgage of around £100,000 to repay and a debt commitment that will
extend into his old age. 
- What had happened to Mr D was a criminal offence against a vulnerable individual,
and the payment for trouble and upset when compared to other types of insurance
claim for injury this seemed too low.AMF replied to say, in summary, it thought the redress set out by the investigator was 
unusual. It agreed that Mr D should not have been sold this mortgage, and that it follows that 
Mr D should be put back in the position he would have been in but for the mortgage having 
been sold. AMF considered it highly probable that Mr D would have continued to live in 
shared rental accommodation and that redress should purely be the additional costs that 
having the mortgage has led to. AMF argued that the investigators proposed redress 
improves Mr Ds position as a result of the brokers mistake. Rather the redress should only 
look to put Mr D back in the position that he would have been in had the mortgage not been 
sold.
AMF agreed to review assumptions made in its compensation calculation that Ms D had 
queried. For example, Ms D had queried the market value of Mr Ds property today, and she 
questioned whether fair rental figures have been used in the redress calculation. However, 
AMF said that Mr D had enjoyed the benefit of living in a two bedroom house for 15 years 
rather than renting a single room in a shared house. And that it considered it fair that the 
current value of Mr Ds property was taken into account as part of the wider consideration of 
Mr Ds position.
Because neither party agreed with our investigators findings, this case has been passed to 
me so that I can make a final decision on the matter.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision dated 21 September 2021, which said:
When Ms D made this complaint to AMF on behalf of her brother, it investigated the matter 
and upheld the complaint. AMF offered compensation totalling around £40,000. Its said that 
its likely the advice and sale of the mortgage in 2006 should not have been given. And it has 
recognised that the mortgage entered into in 2006 may not have been in Mr Ds interests.
Ive considered whether this mortgage should have been recommended by the broker. And, 
what the resulting impact of this advice and mortgage has been to Mr D, and how AMF 
should now look to put things right.
Ive looked at the mortgage documentation completed at the time the mortgage was sold, 
including the application and offer from the lender. I can see why Ms D is concerned about 
how the mortgage came about and the role the broker played in the situation thats caused 
this complaint.
There are inconsistencies in the application concerning fundamental details of Mr Ds 
position at the time the mortgage was sold. It seems, from the wider situation as presented 
by Ms D and the evidence provided about Mr Ds learning difficulties, that his employment 
and income was incorrect in the application. The mortgage application presents Mr Ds 
employment as a senior management role and declares his earnings as being materially 
greater than Ms D says that they were at the time, or ever have been. 
Im also mindful that in Mr Ds specific situation, and taking into account his learning 
difficulties, it is likely that Mr D didnt understand the full implications of the mortgage he was 
entering into. I consider Mr D would have been heavily reliant on not just the mortgage 
brokers advice and recommendation- but the brokers help completing all the mortgage 
paperwork including the application and accepting the lenders offer.
Im persuaded that Mr D entered into a long-term financial commitment that appears to be 
unaffordable for his true financial position as a direct result of the brokers advice and role in the application process. Due to the brokers actions in 2006, Mr D has been committed to 
make payments to service this debt as best he can ever since.
In the specific circumstances of this case, I should also clarify that Im satisfied that the 
responsibility for the mortgage advice given in 2006, and the mortgage sold to Mr D, lies with 
the mortgage broker rather than the lender. At the time the mortgage was sold, it was the 
brokers responsibility to check that the mortgage was affordable for Mr D. In this instance, 
as AMF has said, the advice and application shouldnt have gone ahead. My provisional 
decision is that its appropriate that the broker should remedy the position Mr D finds himself 
in as a result of the mis-sale of this mortgage rather than sharing this responsibility with the 
lender.
And so, I agree with AMFs conclusion that this complaint should succeed. What remains is 
for me to decide whether AMFs offer of compensation is fair and reasonable to put things 
right.
What do I think AMF should do now to try to put things right?
AMF has provided a detailed calculation which, in summary, attempts to set out the costs of 
the mortgage for Mr D less any benefits of home ownership (such as capital appreciation) 
and less other costs that Mr D would always have needed to make anyway (such as rental 
payments) since the mortgage was taken out in 2006. Ive looked in detail at AMFs 
calculation and the series of assumptions that have been made to create the compensation 
it offered to Mr D.
Where a mistake has been made by a financial business, we typically look to put a 
complainant back in the position they would have been in but for the error. In cases such as 
this, where many years have passed and Mr Ds situation cannot be simply unwound, that 
can be a very difficult thing to achieve. Not least because it is impossible to say what 
situation Mr D would now be in if he hadnt bought his own property in 2006, funded by this 
mortgage. And, now Mr D has taken on this mortgage and property, and this has become his 
home, it isnt straightforward for him to sell the property and repay the mortgage to undo his 
position.
I appreciate the thrust of the arguments made by AMF as to why its calculation is fair 
compensation and any further reduction in the mortgage balance could be considered an 
improvement to Mr Ds position. AMF says that Mr Ds had the benefit of living in the 
mortgaged property for around 15 years. And this property, compared to the position that Mr 
D was in before, in shared rental accommodation, does appear preferable on the face of it. 
From the estimated valuation completed in recent years it also appears that the mortgaged 
property may have increased in value over the mortgage term. 
However, Ive also thought carefully about Ms Ds arguments that Mr Ds home ownership 
has not been without drawbacks for him. Mr D has had a long-time financial commitment to 
meet despite it being unaffordable for him (from a mortgage lending perspective) from the 
outset. This will have become even more of a struggle for Mr D after he became seriously 
injured and found himself too unwell to work. Hes needed to rely on family and benefits to 
help him keep his home. Hes also had to pay for all the other costs of home ownership 
including maintaining a property and paying for utilities on a much lower income than that set 
out in the mortgage application.
Ive also considered that due to Mr Ds learning difficulties, hes not a consumer whos 
equipped with an average level of knowledge of financial services or products. Complex 
products and advice are inaccessible to him and this has been reflected in the way the 
mortgage has been managed. Mr D hasnt tried to remortgage or get access to lower rates of interest on this mortgage until more recently when Ms D asked for this. From information 
shared about the nature of his learning difficulties, Mr D wouldnt have been in a position to 
understand how he could shop around to pay less interest on the mortgage or mitigate his 
costs- and this could have been replicated across all the costs of home ownership.
Ms D has also highlighted that the redress set out by our investigator still left Mr D with a 
mortgage to repay into his sixties. She felt it was unfair that Mr D would now continue to 
struggle to pay the mortgage over a prolonged period despite his history of ill health and that 
his continued employment into his sixties was questionable.
Ms Ds said that this mortgage has caused Mr D distress as hes struggled to maintain 
mortgage payments and hes been worried about losing his home over the years. Ms D has 
said that due to Mr Ds condition, hed find moving house and potentially downsizing his 
property disorientating, confusing and upsetting.
I have carefully considered Mr Ds situation when exploring how AMF might look to put 
things right in this complaint. In particular, Ive thought about his complex vulnerabilities and 
his specific set of personal circumstances when determining the fair way to put things right in 
this complaint.
AMFs formula for compensating Mr D doesnt take into account Mr Ds complex needs and 
his particular situation. I can see that a formulaic approach might be considered fair for some 
complainants. But in this instance, it leaves Mr D with a mortgage of around £100,000 to be 
repaid into his retirement.
Having taken into account all the arguments made by both parties, my provisional decision is 
that it would be unfair to ask Mr D to sell the property and repay the mortgage to resolve this 
complaint. Mr D is a vulnerable consumer who would be adversely affected by this course of 
action. My intention is to minimise any further disruption or upset for Mr D that has resulted 
from the actions of the broker in 2006.
My provisional decision is that it would be appropriate for AMF to reduce the balance of Mr 
Ds mortgage to a level at which he is able to repay the mortgage on a capital repayment 
basis until the end of the current mortgage term (in 2026). I dont think extending the term 
further than 2026 is reasonable- this gives Mr D a liability to repay beyond the mortgage 
term. And in light of Mr Ds fragile long term state of health, and the fact that hes struggled 
to pay the mortgage in the past, I think to extend the term of the debt commitment may only 
result in extending the financial losses caused by him (and may potentially extend the future 
suffering caused to him). I also bear in mind that in any case neither I nor the broker can 
extend the term of the loan in resolution of this complaint, as that is a matter for the lender. 
Mr Ds mortgage lender has agreed to retrospectively apply a lower interest rate to the 
borrowing and this reduces the loan balance by around £18,000. It has also said it will agree 
to fix the interest rate applied to this mortgage for the rest of the loan term, to 2026.  My 
provisional decision is that it would be fair that AMF and the lender work with Ms D to see 
what level of monthly payment Mr D can reasonably afford, at the rate of interest the lender 
has recently offered (1.99%). This calculation should be made following this provisional 
decision and without delay so all parties are clear about the size of the payment to be made 
by AMF and the size of the mortgage that Mr D will be left to repay.
It is my intention that AMF should then make a capital payment towards the loan balance 
such that by making this monthly payment Mr D is able to afford to repay the balance in full 
by the end of the current mortgage term.The aim of this direction is to create a situation where Mr D can make affordable monthly 
repayments of capital and interest to this mortgage over the existing loan term repaying the 
mortgage entirely by 2026. This leaves Mr D without the ongoing burden of this financial 
commitment into his future, and without extending the costs of this loan into his sixties. To 
extend the loan term would require Mr D, whos struggled with severe ill health, to continue 
to work to service this loan commitment and that seems unreasonable in the circumstances.
I also considered that a payment should be made for the trouble and upset caused to Mr D. 
AMF had already offered £2,500 in recognition of the upset caused by the sale of this 
mortgage since the mortgage was taken out. Ms D had said she considered this payment to 
be too low- but overall, in light of the wider award being made for financial loss, I thought this 
seemed payment seemed reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms D responded. In summary she accepted my provisional decision.
AMF disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary, it accepted Mr D was vulnerable 
and that moving house might be disturbing for him. It also said it sympathised with Mr Ds 
position and says its made every effort to take steps to reasonably put things right.
However, AMF said it considered my proposed redress to be unclear, too ambiguous to 
follow, disproportionate and unfair. AMF said it had used a standard industry approach to 
calculate redress and that this was consistent with the published Ombudsmans framework. 
It also said I had ignored the fact that if Mr D hadnt taken out the mortgage, hed have 
continued to rent a property. And it said that if Mr Ds rental payments would have continued 
into retirement, why shouldnt his mortgage payments do the same now.
AMF also said it believed Mr D would probably have had to move several times over the 
years if he hadnt purchased this property, and yet I was ignoring this fact and awarding an 
amount of around £100,000 so that any upset may be avoided now by requiring him to move 
house. AMF doesnt believe the responsibility and burden of home ownership outweighs the 
benefits and considers that my provisional decision proposes compensation for distress and 
inconvenience of £100,000. 
AMF suggested that other solutions may be available such as for it to purchase Mr Ds 
property and rent it to him for the rest of his life, or that Mr D could take out a retirement 
interest only or lifetime mortgage now and accept the one off payment of around £40,000 
that it has already offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the additional remarks made by AMF in response to my 
provisional findings and why it considers that my proposed redress is unclear and unfair.
As I explained in my provisional findings, putting things right in this case isnt straightforward. 
This isnt simply a matter of putting Mr D back in the position he would have been in but for 
the advice and mortgage application. Many years have passed since that event, and there is 
a range of variables that mean that it simply isnt possible to come up with a precise 
calculation that offsets the benefits of the mortgage against the burdens arising from it. In 
addition, the ongoing nature of the rights and obligations under the mortgage make this even 
more difficult, and selling the property at this point or remortgaging for life will have the sorts of consequences for Mr D which are impossible to quantify through simple monetary 
compensation.
While AMF does accept Mr D is vulnerable, it continues to question the extent of this 
vulnerability. I am persuaded by all the evidence provided that Mr D has vulnerabilities that 
merit careful consideration.
Im also aware that discussions about what might constitute fair compensation to resolve this 
complaint have gone on for years. The protracted nature of the dispute continues to cause 
upset for Mr D and his representative. And thats why this matter was been referred to our 
service in the first instance. Its clear that putting things right in this case isnt a simple thing 
to achieve.
AMF has said that it would be irregular to proceed with redress as Ive set out. However, I 
think something similar to what Im proposing now was also considered by AMF at an earlier 
stage. The contact history on the complaint brought against the lender showed there had 
been contact made by AMF to find out more about the loan before an offer of compensation 
was made to Mr D. AMF appears to have been thinking about a considerable one-off  
payment, reducing Mr Ds mortgage balance to a level hed be able to repay in light of his 
complex needs.
This supports Ms Ds comments that there had been an earlier time in this dispute when 
more compensation was discussed - but then the methodology changed and the offer was 
greatly reduced. AMF hasnt explained to us why it initially explored a higher compensation 
figure and then switched to the calculation then proposed to Mr D as fair settlement of his 
complaint. Whatever its reasons for this, I think this shows that my proposed redress is 
similar to what it had previously considered making available to Mr D, and that therefore 
what Im proposing is rational, even if it might be open to me to direct compensation using a 
different method.
One of the issues with the calculation behind the offer made by AMF was the series of 
underlying assumptions that needed to be made. These assumptions led to disputes about 
the value of Mr Ds property, what would have happened if he hadnt taken out this 
mortgage, what rent he paid at the time and what he might have paid over the years, what 
else Mr D might have spent money on if he hadnt been making higher mortgage payments, 
and other key factors. For example, even to establish the rent Mr D was paying at the point 
he entered into the mortgage is difficult. Mr Ds learning difficulties cause him severe 
problems with his memory, so I think its unreasonable to rely on Mr Ds recollection as to his 
position at the time. And the application completed by the broker contains information thats 
alleged to have been fabricated and is unrelated to Mr Ds circumstances at the time. This 
creates a very difficult position from which to calculate fair redress.
AMF has said that it considers the rewards of home ownership outweigh the risks of the 
mortgage. I have taken the benefits of home ownership into account, including the fact that 
Mr D seems likely to have benefitted from some increase in property value (although the 
exact amount is disputed). However, I acknowledge that while there may have been 
benefits, for the purposes of redress these are intangible when compared to the burden of 
having a long-term financial commitment Mr D couldnt afford, that required the support of 
friends and family to pay, and that leaves him with a financial commitment into his future.
Ive reached the conclusion that what AMF might consider is the standard industry approach 
isnt possible to apply in this case as there is too much uncertainty about the assumptions 
that are needed. In addition, the overlapping nature of these factors mean that there is no 
way of reaching a satisfactory finding on them, so that if I tried to do so there is a risk that my 
conclusions would be arbitrary.My direction of a single payment to reduce Mr Ds mortgage to a level at which he can repay 
the loan within the term, removes further debate and discussion about the elements that 
make up a calculation to make a payment to Mr D. And Im also looking to put things right in 
this complaint in a way that gives Mr D certainty about what he must do for the rest of the 
mortgage term - knowing that if he does this his debt will be repaid, his financial losses as a 
result of the advice will stop and his situation in retirement is simplified.
AMF has said it is concerned that Im making this award based solely on distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr D. To be clear, this money award is being made in respect of 
losses suffered by Mr D in the past and those that might reasonably be suffered in the future 
as a result of the sale of this mortgage. A separate payment of £2,500 in relation to trouble 
and upset has been proposed as explained.
AMF has now mentioned other alternatives such as purchasing the property from Mr D and 
renting it back to him for the rest of his life. Its also suggested Mr D could take a retirement 
interest only mortgage, for a smaller balance having used the payment offered by AMF to 
reduce the size of his secured borrowing.
As Ive explained, I dont think its fair or reasonable to leave Mr D with a mortgage to repay 
for the rest of his life or well into his planned retirement because of financial advice and a 
mortgage mis-sold to him in 2006. I think that would prolong the monthly financial 
commitment and extend the additional risks and costs to Mr D that a mortgage brings. To 
extend the term of this mortgage, or replace it with another financial commitment for Mr D to 
meet for life, seems wholly unacceptable to me especially in light of Mr Ds specific complex 
situation and his vulnerability. And it opens the possibility of future financial costs for Mr D 
which continue to stem from the mis-sale in 2006. I appreciate that AMF suggest that an 
approach is either disproportionate or unfair, but Im satisfied that it addresses the adverse 
consequences to Mr D of the mis-sale and its more appropriate in this case than the 
alternatives that AMF has suggested.
AMF has said my proposed redress is unclear and ambiguous. I disagree because it should 
be relatively straightforward for AMF to calculate what they need to pay to arrive at what I 
consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome. 
The lender has said that, according to a recent income and expenditure assessment it has 
made with Mr Ds representative and his history of payments, it considers Mr D can afford to 
make monthly repayments towards a capital repayment mortgage of £650 per month. That 
means that the mortgage will need to be reduced to a balance of around £35,000 for Mr D to 
repay the mortgage in full by the end of its term (30 June 2026). The lender will reduce the 
mortgage balance by around £18,000 due to its offer to backdate a lower interest rate to the 
loan. And the lender has said it will agree to give an interest rate (with no product fee) of 
1.99% for the remainder of the mortgage term. This fixes a monthly payment for Mr D and 
gives him certainty about what he must pay and when this loan will end. 
That, in turn, means that AMF will need to make a payment of around £100,000 to Mr D to 
reduce the balance of this mortgage to a level at which he can repay it within the existing 
term. Our investigator can help Ms D, AMF and the lender to make sure that exact 
settlement figures are evident so all parties are clear about what needs to happen to resolve 
this complaint.
In conclusion, while I appreciate the arguments made by AMF, I remain of the view that its 
reasonable to adopt a less formulaic approach to putting things right in Mr Ds case than 
AMFs offer. Im able to determine a complaint based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the unique set of circumstances in each complaint rather than being constrained to a set formula or methodology that could lead to unintended unfairness for    
Mr D.
I dont agree that it can clearly be said that if Mr D hadnt taken out this mortgage, then he 
would be in rental accommodation now, and that we know what his current financial position 
would have been. There is uncertainty over what course of action Mr D may have taken over 
the years, and thats one of the reasons why it is so difficult to put things right in the case 
now. I cannot simply put Mr D back in the position he would have been in but for the brokers 
advice and sale of this mortgage all those years ago.
Despite the further arguments put forward at this stage, I consider the redress proposed in 
my provisional decision is the best course of action to sort out this dispute to prevent any 
future financial losses for Mr D and give him closure on the matter. And so, I think it fair and 
reasonable to settle this matter in line with my provisional findings.
Putting things right
I find that AMF should make a payment to Mr D of around £100,000 (to be confirmed by the 
lender) which will in turn be used to reduce Mr Ds mortgage balance to around £35,000. 
This is a level that the lender has established Mr D can afford to repay in full through capital 
repayments within the existing mortgage term. To be clear, this compensation is intended to 
be used to repay the mortgage balance as Mr Ds financial situation will only be improved by 
this course of action.
AMF should also pay £2,500 for the significant distress, worry and upset caused to Mr D by 
its action over a long period of time. The broker sold Mr D a mortgage without establishing 
that it was affordable for him, and that potentially he couldnt understand. The consequences 
of this action have been upsetting for Mr D over a long period of time which is regrettable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd. I 
direct AMF to do the following to settle the matter:
-make a payment to Mr Ds mortgage of around £100,000 sufficient to allow Mr D to make
payments of £650 per month for the remaining term of the mortgage and repay the balance
in full by the end of the existing term.
-pay Mr D a payment for the trouble and upset it has caused to him of £2,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, or Ms D on 
his behalf to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman