DRN-2037594
The complaint
Ms M complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Ms M took out in 
September 1997. It was sold in store and covered her for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms M disagreed. 
She said, in summary, that:
She wasnt told about the policy so didnt make a decision whether to take it or not  the 
cross in the box must have been put there by somebody else.
She was financially sound and would never have needed to make a claim; she had 
savings she could have used to meet her repayments.
Her complaint about PPI on a store card she took out in 1988 was upheld.
She would have avoided any policy where a large commission was paid and the Plevin 
ruling applies to her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms M's case.
After careful consideration, Ive decided not to uphold Ms M's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Ms M aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI. As this happened many years ago, I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Ive taken into 
account what Ms M recollects  that PPI wasnt discussed. But, as this happened many 
years ago and, as I can't be sure exactly what was discussed, I've relied more on what the 
paperwork from the time shows.
I've seen a copy of the application form Ms M signed. Looking at this it has a separate 
section headed "Payment & Purchase Protection". The form does not specifically say that 
PPI is optional, but I consider it is reasonably clear, from the need to tick or cross a box, that 
it was not a requirement of applying for the credit card. In all likelihood, the member of staff 
would have filled in the application form electronically during the discussion with Ms M and 
printed it off for signature. As part of this process, the member of staff would have needed 
Ms Ms agreement to the PPI insurance so that the box could be crossed. Ms M would then 
have had time to read through the form, before signing to agree that the details were correct. 
The form, and the section about PPI, was quite brief, so I think she would have had time to 
read this, even though she was in a store.
So, overall and on balance, I think AXA did enough to make it clear to Ms M that she had a 
choice about taking PPI. And that, despite what she recollects now, she chose to take it.
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Ms M, so it didn't have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms M about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of Ms Ms circumstances at the time, it doesn't look like 
she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she could have 
benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about 
these things wouldve affected her decision take out PPI.
Ms M told us she was financially sound. But, if she wasnt able to work due to sickness or an 
accident she would have only received full pay for 12 weeks. Although the balance on her 
card wouldnt have been large, the PPI would have given her the peace of mind that her 
payments would be made, without the need to cash in her employee sharesave. It also 
covered her if shed become unemployed. So it could have been a useful benefit for her in 
her circumstances. So, again, receiving clearer information would not, on balance, have 
changed what happened here.
Finally, It also looks like the PPI was affordable and she could have cancelled it at any time.
Ms M says she had another PPI complaint about another store card upheld. But Ive 
considered the individual circumstances of this complaint, and the outcome of her other 
complaint doesnt change my conclusion.
Overall, I dont think Ms M has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done
wrong.
Ms M has commented that she has always avoided policies where large commissions are 
paid. Whilst I acknowledge what shes said, as our adjudicator explained, the regulators 
rules about high levels of undisclosed commission only relate to what lenders should do. 
AXA was not the lender, and so I am not able to consider Ms Ms comments in this regard 
under this complaint. It is open to Ms M to contact her lender about this issue, if she hasnt 
already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth DawesOmbudsman