DRN-2196445
The complaint
Mr H has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H took out the policy in 2001 by filling in an application form.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Looking at the application form, there is a separate section for PPI with a box that could be 
ticked to request the policy. Mr H has ticked in the box. He could have left it blank if he 
hadnt wanted the policy.
The wording says: We strongly recommend you take out this cover, which Mr H says was 
overly forceful language and what compelled him to tick the box. However, the application 
form was a standard printed from, rather than something generated just for Mr H. As such, 
Im not persuaded that Mr H would have considered the generic wording to be a 
personalised recommendation aimed solely at him. And Im also not persuaded that the 
wording was coercive, so that Mr H would have felt pressured to take the policy.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Hs recollection of events 
has faded. On balance, I think it is more likely than not that Mr H knew he had a choice 
about taking out PPI. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have 
to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
RBS didnt advise Mr H to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. 
But it did need to provide Mr H with enough information for him to make an informed choice 
about whether or not it met his needs.
In the PPI section of the application form, it states that the policy is designed to protect the 
card payments in the event of death, accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think that Mr 
H would have had some basic understanding of what the policy did - because I dont think 
hed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about it.
Mr Hs employer would have given him less than three months sick pay. The policy would 
have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr H would have received full 
pay for. Mr H has told us that family and friends would have helped. But asking other people 
cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can change. Overall, I consider Mr H had 
a need for the policy and could have benefited from it at what would have been a difficult 
time.
Its possible that RBS didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. Because I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
more information would have caused him to change his mind. 
This means that RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But RBS 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
When the policy was sold, RBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. 
Because RBS didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman