DRN-3597357
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt do enough to protect him when he fell 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
It isnt in dispute that Mr L authorised the disputed payments he made to the 
cryptocurrency exchange platform, Binance (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers from) using his Lloyds debit card. The payments 
were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Lloyds, 
and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result.  
I appreciate that, overall, Mr L has lost over £7,800 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character 
transaction. There were two separate payments of just over £3,600 (plus fees) and 
£4,200 which, in my judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out 
of character when compared with Mr Ls spending history, such that they ought to 
have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk of 
falling victim to a scam. 
So, having considered the payments Mr L made to Binance, Im not persuaded there 
was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Lloyds fraud monitoring 
systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed.  
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr L reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent on a debit card 
can be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, a chargeback 
is a voluntary scheme run by card providers such as Visa and Mastercard. That 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme, and we wouldnt expect a bank to 
pursue matters to final arbitration if there was no prospect of success. 
In these circumstances, Mr L used his debit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange 
platform before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he 
wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances 
because the service would be considered provided (i.e. the purchase of 
cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Lloyds have acted unreasonably by failing 
to pursue a chargeback claim in these circumstances. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman