DRN-1018527
The complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Mobile Limited mis-sold him a mobile phone contract.
What happened
In 2019 Mr H entered a branch of Tesco Mobile, accompanied by his son, who had 
previously been barred from the store but who nevertheless wanted to buy a phone from this 
store. Because he was with his father, the branch staff let him in. Mr H bought him a mobile 
phone on a three-year contract.
Mr H complains that the phone was mis-sold for three reasons. Firstly, because his son was 
barred from the store, so he should not have been allowed in. In those circumstances, Mr H 
would never have bought a phone from Tesco Mobile. Secondly, because Mr H was feeling 
unwell, and so his mind was not really on the purchase. He says he mentioned this to the 
staff at the time. Thirdly, because he could not read the terms and conditions of the contract, 
because he had left his glasses as home. He says this means he signed the contract under 
duress.
Three days after the purchase, Mr Hs son dropped the phone and broke the screen. Mr H 
took the phone back to the store, and tried to return it under the 14-day cooling-off period. 
But the store refused, because the phone was damaged. Mr H complains about that too.
Tesco Mobile did not agree that it had done anything wrong, and our investigator did not 
uphold this complaint either. Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to take this opportunity to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken for 
this case to be assigned to an ombudsman.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I dont think it matters that Mr Hs son was allowed into the store after he had been barred. 
Its very likely that if he had not been allowed in, he would just have bought a phone 
elsewhere, and then dropped and broken that one instead. Mr H would still have felt unwell 
during the purchase, and he would still have been without his glasses. So its a red herring.
It isnt Tesco Mobiles fault that Mr H forgot his glasses, or that he felt unwell. Although he 
describes himself as having been under duress, he has not in fact alleged that anyone 
forced him to stay and to go through with the purchase. It was his choice to proceed with the 
sale, instead of just leaving.
I have considered the consequences of Mr H having felt unwell and being unable to read the 
terms and conditions. But I dont think that either of these matters  whether individually or 
taken together  mean that the phone was mis-sold. Mr H could have just gone home and 
come back later, when he was feeling better and when he had his glasses with him. Or he 
could have asked his son or a member of staff to read the terms and conditions out loud to 
him.
But I dont think it matters that Mr H didnt read the terms and conditions, because he was 
still aware of the important features of the contract. He knew he was buying a phone, and 
that this would cost money, which would be paid by direct debit. He has told our investigator 
that he knew, at the time, that there was a 14-day cooling-off period. Its unlikely that if he 
had read the contract in detail, he would have seen something that changed his mind. Lots 
of people buy phones and other goods without reading the contract in detail. But it was open 
to Mr H to read the terms and conditions when he got home, or the next day, or the day after 
that, and then to return the phone if he wished.
The real reason Mr H wanted to return the phone on the third day was because it was 
broken. I dont think it was unreasonable of Tesco Mobile to refuse to accept a broken 
phone, or that this was unforeseeable. The terms and conditions dont expressly state that 
broken phones will not be accepted, but I think this is implied by clause 3.6, which states:
You are required to take reasonable care of any mobile handset we provide.  
[Y]ou must return the mobile handset in its original packaging with all of its 
components
Even if I thought that there was no such implied term, I still wouldnt consider it to be fair and 
reasonable of me to compel Tesco Mobile to take back a broken phone and to pay a refund.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman