DRN-2627749
The complaint
Mr S complains about the annual premium hes been charged by AXA Insurance UK Plc for 
covering a medical condition on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has an annual travel insurance as a benefit of his packaged bank account. 
 
In 2015, Mr S called AXAs medical screening line to declare two medical conditions, one of 
which was atrial fibrillation (AF). He paid an additional premium to cover those conditions. At 
each following renewal, AXA sent Mr S renewal paperwork setting out the cost of continuing 
medical cover. For a short time in 2016, AXA wasnt able to cover AF, due to the number of 
admissions Mr S had had for it during the previous months, but from October 2016 onwards, 
Mr S paid an additional premium each year to cover his medical conditions.
Subsequently, in 2019, AXA sent renewal documents to Mr S to review, quoting an 
additional premium. Mr S called up AXA to query the price and during the call, AXA learned 
that AF no longer fell within the scope of medical screening. Mr S other condition was on 
AXAs no-screen list, which meant that it could now be covered at no additional charge. So 
AXA told Mr S that hed no longer need to pay an additional premium for medical cover.
Mr S felt that hed been overcharged for his medical conditions during the preceding years. 
He said that the renewal documents didnt ask for information about his medical conditions 
and that he hadnt called AXA to inform it about any previous need for treatment. He said his 
answers to the screening questions had remained unchanged over several years. And so he 
felt hed been charged an additional premium incorrectly. He asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She felt the renewal 
paperwork AXA had sent Mr S clearly explained that hed need to let it know if there were 
any changes to his medical conditions. And she considered that in the absence of such an 
update, it was reasonable for AXA to calculate an additional premium based on the 
information itd been given previously. Shed looked at AXAs call records and could see that 
Mr S had called it at before most renewals, discussed his medical conditions and agreed to 
pay the additional premium due. And she felt AXA had calculated the additional premiums 
due correctly, based on the information Mr S had given it. So she concluded it was most 
likely that the premiums had been charged fairly.
Mr S disagreed. Ive summarised his response. He considered that the investigator hadnt 
understood the nature of AF. He said it was a life-long condition, but that he may go for 
many years without an episode. He said that at each renewal, hed been sent a 
questionnaire about his health, but he hadnt been asked whether or not he self-medicated. 
He felt this was the key question AXA based its calculation of his premium on, but it hadnt 
asked him about it previously. He felt that if hed been asked about it in previous years, AXA 
wouldnt have applied an additional premium. He said that AXA had a responsibility to ask 
pertinent questions. As he didnt think itd done so in his case, he wasnt persuaded that it 
had treated him fairly.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXA has treated Mr S fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that financial businesses must treat their customers fairly 
and that they must act in their customers best interests. So Ive considered, amongst other 
things, whether AXA met its regulatory obligations when it calculated Mr S renewal 
premiums.
As the investigator explained, our role isnt to tell insurers how to assess the risk of a claim 
and what factors they should take into account when doing so. And we wont tell an insurer 
what price its entitled to charge to cover the risk of offering insurance cover. So my role isnt 
to tell AXA what factors it should weigh up when it considers, at each renewal, whether to 
offer Mr S medical cover or how much it should charge if it agrees to do so. What I can look 
at though is whether I think AXA treated Mr S fairly and that it hasnt singled him out in any 
way.
Mr S accepts that he has AF, along with another medical condition, and hes told us that this 
is a lifelong condition. The terms of his insurance contract with AXA set out that AXA doesnt 
cover pre-existing medical conditions unless theyve been disclosed to and accepted by it. In 
some cases, AXA may choose not to cover a condition, or charge an additional premium for 
the added risk the condition poses it. Given Mr S did disclose his AF (and other condition) to 
AXA, I think it was contractually and reasonably entitled to screen this condition at each 
subsequent renewal. It set out a list of questions which it took into account when assessing 
whether or not to cover AF. And it was the answers to these questions which determined 
whether it would cover Mr S conditions and if so, at what price.
Ive seen copies of renewal letters that AXA sent to Mr S in 2017 and 2019. So Ive looked 
closely at these letters. I can see that they clearly state:
A Premium for the forthcoming year has been offered based on the health information you 
have provided last year. If you no longer have the condition(s) mentioned in the 
Endorsement, or there have been any changes in your health or the health of anyone 
covered by the Policy, you must contact us as the premium offered and the cover available 
may change.
I think this paragraph makes it clear how AXAs worked out the renewal premium for a 
policyholders health. And that its down to a policyholder to get in touch if the information 
AXA holds is wrong or needs updating. So I think Mr S ought to have realised that it was his 
responsibility to keep AXA informed about how his AF was being managed and the impact of 
it on his day to day life. The renewal paperwork also includes a series of questions about Mr 
S AF, including how his condition is treated and how many unplanned visits hed had to the 
hospital during the past 12 months. These were the questions AXA took into account when it 
assessed whether or not to offer Mr S cover for AF. The questions were clearly set out, as 
were the answers AXA had on record. So I think AXA made it clear enough what factors it 
was taking into account when it considered the risk of a claim Mr S AF posed to it.
Mr S originally told us he hadnt telephoned AXA, although he later said that he had spoken 
to medical screening, but it hadnt asked the relevant questions. So Ive looked closely at 
AXAs contact records and Ive also listened to four calls that Mr S had with the medical screening line during 2016 and 2017. During those calls, Mr S discussed AF and at points, 
he changed his answers to AXAs questions about it  most notably, the number of 
unplanned hospital admissions hed had during the previous 12 months. In 2016, changing 
the answer to this question led to AXA declining to cover AF for around six-month period. He 
called back a few months later and updated his answer, which led to cover being reinstated 
for an additional price. Mr S also spoke to AXA in 2016 because the number of medications 
he took had changed. AXAs notes between 2015 and 2019 show that Mr S called a number 
of times to discuss his policy and to take up its renewal quotes. 
In my view then, it seems Mr S was reasonably aware of what AXA wanted to know about 
AF and what factors it took into account. And he kept it up to date about changes to his 
treatment plan and how his condition affected him at different points. So I think AXA was 
accordingly reasonably entitled to take into account the information Mr S gave it about his 
condition to calculate the premium to cover it.
When AXA sent the renewal paperwork in 2019, it based the quote on the information Mr S 
had given it about AF in 2018. When Mr S called up to discuss the quote, he told the 
screening line that he was no longer receiving medication, treatment or check-ups for AF. 
This meant AXA was now prepared to cover AF as standard and no additional premium was 
due. If Mr S had not received treatment, medication, unplanned hospital admissions or 
check-ups for AF in previous years, it was open to him to update AXA each time he spoke to 
it. But based on all Ive seen and heard, Im satisfied that in 2016 and 2017 at least, Mr S did 
confirm details about his condition and based on this information, AXA calculated the price. 
While there are no calls or renewal paperwork copies on file for 2018, I can see renewal 
papers were sent to Mr S. So I think at that renewal too, he would most likely have been in a 
position to update AXAs records if they were wrong. 
Overall, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that AXA treated Mr S unfairly at renewal, or that 
it didnt calculate his premiums based on the information it held. So Im not telling it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman