DRN-2859381
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain about AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) for delaying in making a 
decision about indemnity. Mrs J and Mr J want AXA to decide their claim. 
What happened
In 2017, an accident occurred at Mrs J and Mr Js home and a third party was injured. 
A claim was made to Mrs J and Mr Js insurance policy, under their occupiers liability cover. 
AXA initially rejected that claim, relying on a policy exclusion. 
Mrs J and Mr J complained to our service and a decision was made in late 2019. In that 
decision, the ombudsman directed that AXA reconsider the claim, disregarding the policy 
exclusion. 
The third party issued a claim, but has not served the claim on Mrs J and Mr J. 
Mrs J and Mr J want an assurance from AXA that they will be indemnified, should the claim 
proceed. AXA has not yet made a decision on this. 
Mrs and Mr J complained about the delay in AXA reaching a decision. AXA sent them its 
final response letter in August 2020. AXA advised that it recognised the time lapse and the 
effect that this was having on Mrs J and Mr J, but stated that the delay was due to factors 
outside of its control. AXA states that in order to make a reasoned decision, which could 
withstand challenge, it needs to have sight of the full details of the claim, and of the evidence 
in support of the claim. 
Mrs J and Mr J were not satisfied with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that whilst it was unfortunate that the decision had not been made, this was not due to 
wrongdoing by AXA. He considered that the information which AXA was awaiting was 
reasonably required in order to make the decision, and so considered that AXA was not 
responsible for the delay. He therefore did not recommend that AXA do anything further. 
Mrs J and Mr J did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. They feel 
that AXA ought to make a court application for documents in order to decide the indemnity. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have great sympathy with Mrs J and Mr J in their situation. They have described being in 
procedural limbo on account of the claim existing, but seemingly not proceeding at this 
time. Their feelings are understandable and I appreciate why they want a reassurance from 
AXA that, should the claim proceed, they will be protected by their insurer. 
I do, however, agree with the investigators view. Because the third party has previously 
alleged that the accident and injury to him was deliberately caused, this remains a live issue 
for AXA to consider. 
AXA has explained that Mrs J and Mr Js cover includes a general exclusion for deliberate 
acts and so any allegations of deliberate acts are relevant to the consideration of liability. It is 
reasonable for AXA to wish to await the information so that it can reach a considered 
decision, in the face of the evidence, rather than make a decision which it may then have to 
revise once information is produced by the third party. 
I understand that Mrs J and Mr J feel trapped as they are not able to contact the third party 
for information in case this prompts the third party to proceed with the claim, and doing so 
they could breach their policy. They therefore feel that AXA ought to take steps to obtain the 
information need to make a decision.
I understand their view, but I do not think that it would be reasonable to require AXA to take 
such steps or to mandate any action which could affect the litigation. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold Mrs J and Mr Js 
complaint. I understand that this will be disappointing and I hope that the matter is resolved 
as swiftly as possible. 
AXA will of course be obliged to make a decision promptly once the information becomes 
available, and Mrs J and Mr J would be able to refer a complaint to us at that time, should 
they wish to. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint and do not ask AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman