DRN-3170842
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as The Woolwich) 
provided information about the interest charged on her mortgage current account and the 
amount shes paid as a result. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss C was required to take out a mortgage current account alongside her mortgage, 
which provided access to the mortgage reserve facility. The mortgage offer stated 
that interest would be added to that account monthly. So I think its clear that interest 
would be charged for use of this facility. 
Barclays has confirmed that the interest rate chargeable on Miss Cs mortgage 
reserve facility is its standard variable rate of 4.49% plus the Bank of England Base 
Rate. And it appears from the information provided that this is the amount Miss C 
was charged. 
In terms of the rate of interest charged, I do agree that Barclays couldve been 
clearer about this. It provided information to show the monthly rate of 0.42% was 
being charged up until 2014. After this, the monthly current account statements didnt 
provide the rate of interest applicable. But the statements did make it clear how much 
was being charged in monetary terms (due the following month). And if Miss C 
wanted to know the rate, Barclays provided contact information for this to be 
obtained.
I also agree that the annual statements of fees contain errors. They either state that 
no interest was charged or provide a figure that differs to what was actually charged. 
I havent been given a satisfactory explanation for this error. But the error here is in 
what Barclays has said Miss C was charged in these statements, not what she was 
actually charged, and not what was written on the monthly statements. 
Im not persuaded that Miss C has lost out financially. While I appreciate the incorrect 
statements wouldve caused confusion, Im satisfied that it was clear from the outset 
thered be a rate of interest charged for using the reserve facility and that she was 
told the correct amount she was being charged each month, with the means to find 
out the rate of interest if she required it. Miss C said that shes lost out as shes 
incurred interest during the life of this complaint whereas she wouldve paid the 
account off sooner had she received an answer more quickly. It was Miss Cs choice 
not to pay off the balance on the reserve account sooner and I dont think it would be 
fair to hold Barclays responsible for charging interest that I havent found to be 
wrongly charged. So I think the £225 Barclays offered in relation to this complaint is 
sufficient for the trouble and upset caused and I wont be asking Barclays to issue a 
refund or offer any further compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(trading as The Woolwich). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman