DRN-3847537
The complaint
Mr M says he contacted HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in December 2021, as four payments 
of £49.99 were taken from his joint account without his authorisation.
HSBC refunded the amounts taken from Mr Ms account, but then HSBC wrote to Mr M on 
14 December 2021 to say it had incorrectly refunded all four payments. The letter explained 
that HSBC will re-debit one of the payments from Mr Ms account on 28 December 2021.
Mr M says he didnt receive this letter but did notice the payment had been made and called 
HSBC to query why this payment was taken from his account, as he says none of the 
payments shouldve been taken from his account in the first place.
HSBC wrote to Mr M on 28 January 2022 to apologise for Mr M having difficulties to get 
through to the relevant department, although it didnt address why the debit was applied to 
his account on 28 December 2021.
Mr M responded to say that the department he was trying to reach was not closed, and that 
he was on the phone to the department, but the line cut out. Mr M said that the matter was 
still unresolved.
HSBC then wrote to Mr M on 3 February 2022 to apologise for the error made and confirmed 
that the £49.99 had been re-credited back into Mr Ms account.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 9 December 2022, in which I explained why I was minded 
to instruct HSBC to pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter. 
I have included an extract of my provisional decision below and it forms part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, it doesnt appear to be in dispute that HSBC made an 
error by debiting one of the disputed payments again from Mr Ms account. 
Therefore, all that is left for me to consider is whether what the adjudicator 
recommended to put matters right is reasonable.
Firstly, I note that HSBC re-credited £49.99 back into Mr Ms account, thereby putting 
him in the position as though none of the four disputed transactions had occurred. I 
also note that HSBC apologised for its handling of the complaint in the final response 
letter.
After Mr M contacted our service, HSBC reviewed the matter and said it would be 
prepared to pay Mr M £50 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mr M 
experienced in this matter. The adjudicator didnt think that this amount was fair, as 
they didnt think it fully reflected the fact the consumer spent some time on the phone 
to HSBC, and also in light of Mr Ms circumstances and health conditions, the failure 
to resolve the matter added to Mr Ms distress. As such, the adjudicator felt that £100 
compensation was a more reasonable amount. However, Mr M disagreed with this 
and said that more compensation was warranted.
Overall, whilst I think what the adjudicator recommended was not an unreasonable 
amount, I currently dont think it quite recognises the impact that this matter had on 
Mr M.
When weighing everything up, Im mindful that it appears HSBC did write to Mr M on 
14 December 2021 to give him notice that the amount was due to be debited from his 
account again. Mr M says he didnt receive this letter. However, I dont think it is 
appropriate to hold HSBC responsible for the impact that Mr M not receiving this 
letter had on him, as I think it was likely sent to him  and it looks like it was possibly 
lost in the post. So I dont think it is fair that HSBC is held responsible for the letter 
not reaching Mr M and the added inconvenience (from not receiving this letter) that 
this caused Mr M. 
But having said that, I can see from the evidence provided that, once Mr M was 
aware the money had been taken from his account again, he then spent a number of 
hours on the phone to HSBC, over a number of days, to try and get this matter 
resolved. I understand that this wouldve been very frustrating for Mr M. And I think 
that this had a greater impact on Mr M than it wouldve done otherwise, because of 
the health conditions he was suffering from at the time.
I also think an increased award is warranted because, when HSBC issued its first 
final response letter on 28 January 2022, it failed to actually address Mr Ms 
complaint concerning the money that was taken from his account again. This 
required Mr M to contact HSBC yet again to try and resolve matters, which only 
added to Mr Ms distress and inconvenience.
I can see that it took over a month from when Mr M queried why the money was 
taken from his account again, before it appears that HSBC actually understood, and 
then addressed his complaint and put matters right regarding the debit that was 
reapplied to his account. And in the circumstances, especially given Mr Ms health 
conditions, I think this wouldve caused a fair amount of distress and inconvenience 
to Mr M in that time.
As such, having considered everything, I currently think a more appropriate amount 
of compensation to reflect the impact this matter had on Mr M is £200.
Finally, I note that Mr M has told us that he has since experienced significant 
financial difficulties. Im really sorry to hear about this. I would like to remind HSBC 
that it is required to deal with Mr Ms financial difficulties in a positive and sympathetic 
manner. And in the circumstances, if it hasnt done so already, I think HSBC should 
reach out to Mr M to explain what support it is able to provide him, whilst he is 
experiencing his financial difficulties.
Putting matters right
So, in addition to what it has already done, I currently think HSBC should do the 
following, to put matters right:
Pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter.
HSBC responded and accepted the findings in the provisional decision. Mr M also 
responded but said that he didnt accept the provisional decision. 
In summary, Mr M said that due to the level of his income and expenditure, £50 is a lot of 
money to him. He also said that he needed to go to branch twice to address this matter  
which he said was distressing due to his medical conditions. Mr M also raised questions 
about the joint account holders credit score not being affected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including Mr Ms response to my provisional decision, I 
still think that requiring HSBC to pay an increased amount of compensation of £200 to Mr M 
is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr M has provided more information about his health conditions, and also said that he had to 
attend branch twice. However, when issuing my provisional decision, Id already considered 
what Mr M had told us about what had happened, his circumstances and the impact that 
matters had on him. And that was why I thought an increased amount of compensation was 
warranted  to better reflect the impact this matter had on him. And Mr M has not said 
anything new to make me think that an award of £200 is unreasonable.
Finally, I note that Mr M has also asked that the joint account holders credit file is not 
affected by what is happening on the joint account going forwards. But this can only happen 
going forwards by removing the other account holder from the account. Or alternatively, if 
that is not possible (which I understand its not in this case), the joint account will need to be 
closed and a new account is opened in Mr Ms sole name. Whichever option Mr M chooses 
to follow, he would need to contact HSBC to do this.
Putting things right
To put matters right, I think that HSBC should pay Mr M £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I require HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to do what I have set out above, to put matters right in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman