DRN-4108131
The complaint
Miss B complains that I Go 4 Ltd cancelled her motor insurance policy without informing her. 
She wants records of the cancellation removed and reimbursement of an additional premium 
taken from her account. Miss B is represented in this matter by her relative, Mr B. 
What happened
Miss B took out a telematics policy through IGo4 and it asked her to send in proof of her No 
Claims Discount (NCD). This was provided a day later than IGo4s deadline. But IGo4 didnt 
act on this and instead collected a further payment from Miss Bs account a month later. 
IGo4 was later unable to collect another, smaller payment, and so it cancelled the policy. 
Miss B said she became aware of this when she received a text message notifying her that 
the policy had cancelled. She called IGo4 the next day, but it said it was too late to reinstate 
the policy. IGo4 said Miss B should complain to the insurer. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy 
had been delegated from the underwriter to IGo4. Both IGo4 and the insurer confirmed that 
IGo4 fully managed it and the premiums were generated and held by it until the policy 
expired or was cancelled. So she thought IGo4 was responsible for running the policy 
beyond what a broker would normally do. 
So the Investigator thought that when IGo4 received the NCD proof, it should have either 
updated its records and not collected the additional premium due or asked the insurer for 
instructions. It didnt receive a response from the insurer, but it collected the additional 
premium and kept the policy running with 0 years NCD. So she thought IGo4 was holding 
Miss Bs money and could have used this to pay the further additional premium. And so she 
thought it had unfairly cancelled the policy. 
She thought IGo4 should refund the additional premium, with interest, refund half the 
telematics fee charged, pay Miss B £100 compensation, and change records of the 
cancellation to show that Miss B had cancelled the policy, not the insurer. 
IGo4 replied that it was acting on behalf of the insurer. It said it had asked the insurer if it 
should amend the NCD, but it didnt reply. It said the complaint was the responsibility of the 
insurer. It also thought the telematics fee was non-refundable.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IGo4 has said that the insurer is responsible for setting the premiums and cancelling the 
policy, and so it thought this complaint should be directed to the insurer. But I dont agree in 
these particular circumstances. I can see that both IGo4 and the insurer have told us that 
running the policy is fully delegated to IGo4. It collects and holds the premiums until the 
policys expiry date. The insurer has told us that IGo4 is able to amend the policy when the 
NCD proof is received. So I think the complaint is correctly set against IGo4.
When Miss B took out her policy, her premium was paid in full. Miss B said she received her 
welcome pack from IGo4, but not its later emails. I can see that these were all sent to the 
same email address.. IGo4 said its system confirmed that Miss B had received its emails. So 
I cant say why Miss B didnt receive all of IGo4s emails. 
After Miss B had connected her telematics box, IGo4 wrote to Miss B asking for her proof of 
NCD. This wasnt provided so it said if it hadnt been received within the next seven days it 
would apply an additional premium and collect this from her card details. Miss B provided 
her NCD proof one day later than IGo4s deadline. But it didnt then cancel her policy. 
Instead, IGo4 took £287.26 from Miss Bs account and the policy continued for three months. 
I dont think this was fair or reasonable. IGo4 said it didnt follow up its request to the insurer 
for instructions. I cant see why it didnt do this. I think it could have accepted the NCD proof 
and not collected the additional premium. But I think IGo4 took Miss Bs money, but it didnt 
process her NCD proof as it should have done. 
IGo4 then cancelled the policy because it was unable to collect a further additional payment 
for driving behaviour from Miss Bs account. I can see that it notified her of this by letter and 
email. I cant say why Miss B didnt receive these. IGo4 refunded its cancellation fee as a 
gesture of goodwill. I think IGo4 correctly applied its process here, but I dont think it treated 
Miss B fairly and reasonably.
This is because IGo4 was already holding Miss Bs funds collected and not returned to her 
for the additional premium due to the NCD proof. This was more than enough to cover the 
further additional premium. So Im satisfied that it was unfair for IGo4 to cancel Miss Bs 
policy. 
I think IGo4 should now refund the additional premium collected. As Miss B has been without 
her money for some time, I think it should reasonably add interest to this amount. As the 
cancellation was unfair but the policy cant be reinstated, I think it should be recorded as 
being cancelled by Miss B so that she doesnt have to declare it to future insurers. 
As it wasnt Miss Bs decision to cancel her policy, I dont think its fair that she had to pay 
her telematics fee in full. She had benefit of the policy for five months, and I agree with the 
Investigator that a refund of half the fee would be fair and reasonable. And I think IGo4 
should pay Miss B £100 compensation for her trouble and upset, in keeping with our 
published guidance for the impact its level of service has had. 
Putting things right
I require I Go 4 Ltd to do the following:
1. Refund Miss B the £287.26 additional premium collected adding interest on this amount 
at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 6 July 2022 until the date of payment. 
2. Refund Miss B £75, being 50% of the telematics fee as Miss B had the policy for 5 
months and benefitted from it during this time.
3. Amend internal and external databases to show that the policy was cancelled by Miss B, 
and not by the insurer.
4. Pay Miss B £100 for compensation the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require I Go 
4 Ltd to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman