DRN-3981344
Complaint
Miss C has complained about a loan Lendable Ltd (Lendable) provided to her. She says 
that Lendable provided her with an unaffordable loan.
Background
Lendable provided Miss C with a loan for £3,000.00 in January 2022. It had an APR of 
48.65% and a 24-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £4,412.68, 
which included interest, fees and other charges of £1,412.68, was to due be repaid in 23 
instalments of £184.06 and a final payment of £179.30. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss C and Lendable had told us. And he thought 
that Lendable hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. Miss C 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Lendable needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss C 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable says it agreed to Miss Cs application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Miss C. The information Miss C provided about her income and expenditure 
showed shed be able to make the repayments she was committing to. Lendable says, in 
these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss C has said the loan 
was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss C and Lendable have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that this was Miss Cs first loan with Lendable. The information provided does suggest        
Miss C was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and Lendable didnt just 
rely on what it was told. The credit search carried out showed that Miss C had had previous 
difficulties with credit. But this was historic and at the time Miss Cs outstanding debt and 
what she did have appeared to be reasonably managed.
However, bearing in mind the repayment amount and what the credit search showed, I do 
think that Lendable ought to have found out a bit more about Miss Cs committed 
expenditure. But having looking at the information Miss C has provided I dont think that 
there is anything in it that would have led to Lendable declining Miss Cs application. Indeed, 
on the face of things, whats been provided appears to show the loan was affordable and 
theres nothing in it which calls the information Lendable gathered into question. 
I accept that Miss Cs full circumstances may not be reflected in the information Lendable 
gathered or in the information she has since provided. But bearing in mind what shows in 
this information, I cant reasonably say that further checks would have prevented Lendable 
from providing this loan. Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Lendable did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Miss C  although it ought to 
have gathered a bit more information, I dont think this information would have made a 
difference given its lack of previous history with Miss C. So overall I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lendable to provide this loan to Miss C.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss C. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint, I would remind Lendable of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should Miss C be experiencing difficulty and it 
choose to collect payments from her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman