DRN-2162162
The complaint
Miss B has complained about the way that National Savings & Investments (NS&I) handled 
her request to transfer funds from her late mothers account after she passed away, into her 
own account.
 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020. In my decision I explained 
that I didnt think NS&I had acted fairly, and I laid out my thoughts on what it should do to put 
things right. Ive included the background to the complaint and my provisional findings in the 
next section, so I wont repeat that information here. I gave both parties the opportunity to 
respond to my provisional decision with any further thoughts, before issuing my final 
decision. 
NS&I responded to my provisional decision and agreed with my findings. Miss B responded 
and didnt agree. 
Ill start by providing an extract of my provisional decision.
What happened
Miss Bs late mother, Mrs B, passed away in 2016. Miss B asked NS&I to transfer 
the funds from Mrs Bs three accounts into her own account. NS&I asked Miss B to 
provide a death certificate and Grant of Probate.
Miss B provided the Grant of Probate to NS&I in March 2019, and NS&I 
acknowledged receipt of it and returned it to Miss B around a month later. But as 
funds from Mrs Bs accounts werent then transferred to Miss Bs account, she says 
she phoned NS&I numerous times to find out what had was happening.
NS&I, by its own admission, gave Miss B incorrect information during these calls, 
including telling her that it hadnt received the Grant of Probate. Miss B sent it again 
in April 2019.
Following receipt of the Grant of Probate, in May 2019 one of Mrs Bs accounts 
(Savings Bonds) was closed and the proceeds were transferred into Miss Bs 
account. The same happened with the second (Premium Bonds) in August 2019. 
The third account (Investment account)  which I note was the one with the largest 
balance at just under £138,000  was overlooked.
On the assumption that all of Mrs Bs funds had been transferred to her own 
account, Miss B sent a request to NS&I in October 2019 to withdraw £130,000 to her 
personal bank account. NS&I wrote to her to let her know there were insufficient 
funds in her account to complete this transfer. Miss B, believing that all of Mrs Bs 
funds had been transferred to her own account, contacted NS&I on 12 November 
2019 to question this. A complaint was raised and at that point NS&I realised the 
transfer hadnt been completed when it should have been. The full balance of Mrs 
Bs remaining account, plus interest, was transferred to Miss Bs NS&I account the 
next day.
Around a week later Miss B sent a new request to withdraw £140,000 to her bank 
account. This was completed shortly after.
NS&I accepted that it had made mistakes when dealing with Miss B. It 
acknowledged that it had given her incorrect information during the phone calls and 
asked for information that Miss B had already provided. NS&I also accepts that it 
delayed making the transfer from
Mrs Bs Investment account to Miss Bs account when it should have. It has paid 
Miss B £200 compensation for the upset the situation caused.
Our investigator recommended that NS&I should pay Miss B compensatory interest 
from when she initially requested to withdraw the money form her NS&I account to 
her bank account, until she received the funds. He recommended NS&I should pay 
8% simple interest on the withdrawal amount of £140,000 from 25 October 2019 (the 
date NS&I received the first withdrawal form) until Mrs B received the money in her 
bank account on 25 November 2019. He also recommended that NS&I pay Miss B 
additional interest of £1.88 which she wouldve earned if the account transfer in 
August hadnt been delayed. He felt that in addition to this financial loss, the £200 
NS&I had already paid adequately recognised the distress the situation had caused.
NS&I agreed with the investigators recommendations. But Miss B didnt agree. She 
reiterated that despite receiving the Grant of Probate in April 2019, the proceeds of 
her late mothers accounts  which were her inheritance  werent transferred to her 
until November 2019.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the investigator, so I intend to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss B clearly had to chase NS&I a lot as a result of the delays that she 
encountered and the misinformation she was given. I havent seen a record of all of 
the calls Miss B made, but looking at the broader picture of how NS&I handled the 
situation, I have no reason to disbelieve that she had to make an unnecessary and 
frustrating number of calls. Im also mindful that Miss B also had to send in the 
same information more than once, unnecessarily. All of this, in addition to the 
difficult circumstances it surrounds, warrants compensation.
Whilst there was a delay longer than Id expect in transferring the funds between 
Mrs B and Miss Bs accounts, I can see that Miss B did have some of the funds 
before November 2019  albeit a small portion of them.  The funds from one 
account continued to earn interest whilst they were still in Mrs Bs name, at the 
same rate as they wouldve if they were in Miss Bs account. So I dont think Miss B 
lost out here. And NS&I has already agreed to pay the additional interest that 
wouldve accrued if Mrs Bs other account that was transferred in August had been 
closed and transferred to Miss B sooner than it was.
Miss B says she missed out on a house purchase as a result of NS&Is errors. But I 
can see that when she initially wrote to NS&I in March 2016, and again in April 
2019, she requested Mrs Bs funds to be transferred to her own NS&I account, 
rather than to her bank account, which was an option on the notification form. This 
makes me think its more likely that Miss B intended to keep the funds in savings 
and didnt immediately have plans to spend them. So I dont think she was relying 
on the funds for a purchase that was dependent on them, although I do understand 
that she may later have chosen to use them in that way.The first time Ive seen that Miss B requested to withdraw funds from NS&I, via a 
withdrawal form, is on 19 October 2019. NS&I received this form on 25 October 
2019. As Ive said, this withdrawal wasnt completed and Miss B didnt receive the 
funds until 25 November 2019 after completing a second form. So she was unable 
to use the funds for around a month. Although Miss Bs second request was to 
withdraw £140,000, the one made in October was for £130,000. So I think thats 
the amount NS&I should pay compensatory interest on  from the date it received 
the first form on 25 October 2019.
The overall mis-handling of this situation has clearly caused Miss B a lot of stress 
at an already difficult time. So I think its appropriate for NS&I to recognise this by 
paying her a further £150 in compensation.
I recognise that Miss B didnt agree with our investigator, and the conclusions Ive 
reached are similar. But in the circumstances, I think this is a fair way to 
compensate her for the financial loss she encountered, as well as for the trouble 
and upset that the situation caused.
For the reasons Ive explained, I currently intend to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, Miss B raised several additional points. Ive considered 
those points carefully, but having done so, I havent changed my decision. Ill explain why. 
I should start by explaining that Miss Bs complaint has been brought to this service in her 
capacity as the executor of her late mothers estate. This means that I have to consider the 
impact of the complaint on the estate as a whole  and not on Miss B personally. That said, 
some parts of the complaint are related to Miss Bs personal NS&I account  such as the 
failed transfer to her bank account in October 2019  so Ive considered those parts as such. 
In any case, this explanation doesnt change the way Ive looked at things or the approach 
Ive taken since I issued my provisional decision.
In her response to my provisional decision, Miss B reiterated that as a result of NS&Is 
failings she lost out on the opportunity to buy a property. Ive listened to several calls 
between Miss B and NS&I from May, August and September 2019. Its certainly clear that 
Miss B was distressed by the situation, and I can fully understand that the repeated mistakes 
left Miss B feeling exasperated. But during those calls, theres no mention that Miss B 
needed to locate her late mothers funds for a specific purpose, such as buying the property 
that shes mentioned.  I also note Miss B provided a lengthy and comprehensive selection of 
emails between her and her husband, and a property agent and their bank manager. I do 
agree that these emails suggest Miss B was considering buying a property; but I havent 
concluded that that the funds in question were contingent on that happening, and nor that 
NS&I were aware of this. 
Miss B also says she should be entitled to receive 8% simple interest from the date that 
NS&I received the grant of probate from her, until she received the funds in November 2019. 
But as Ive explained, the first time I can see that Miss B requested to withdraw the funds 
from NS&I to her bank account was in October 2019. If NS&I had done what it should have 
done in March 2019, the funds wouldve been transferred to Miss Bs NS&I account and not 
her bank account, and wouldve attracted interest at the same rate as her late mothers 
investment account. I accept that I dont know what Miss B wouldve used the money for had 
the funds been transferred to her bank account sooner, but I think its unlikely shed have been able to earn an interest rate of 8% interest on it. So itd be unfair for me to direct NS&I 
to pay that to Miss B. 
Miss B reiterated that NS&I told her in April 2019 that it would write to her once it had 
completed the necessary work following receipt of the grant of probate, but it didnt. She also 
says that between April and November 2019 NS&I were unable to clarify what happened to 
the late Mrs Bs funds, which caused a great deal of distress. I certainly understand these 
points, and I considered them before issuing my provisional decision. Whilst I think that NS&I 
went some way to acknowledging the poor service and distress by paying Miss B £200 in 
compensation, I believe the nature of what happened warrants more  so as I previously 
explained, NS&I needs to pay Miss B an additional £150 for this.
Having considered everything afresh, as well as the additional points Miss B raised, I havent 
departed from my initial conclusions. I understand that Miss B is unlikely to agree with my 
findings, and Im sorry for that, but Id like to reassure her Ive thought about everything shes 
said carefully. And I think this is a fair way to bring matters to a close.
I uphold this complaint and require National Savings & Investments (NS&I) to put things 
right.
Putting things right
To put things right I require NS&I to:
Pay Miss B the interest she wouldve accrued on the funds from the late Mrs Bs 
Premium Bonds account, if it had been closed and the funds transferred to Miss Bs 
investment account when NS&I received the Grant of Probate in March 2019;
Pay Miss B 8% simple interest on £130,000 from 25 October 2019 until 25 November 
2019;
Pay Miss B a further £150 compensation;
Write to Miss B to explain clearly how it has worked out the compensation payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require National Savings & Investments to put things right by 
doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and the 
estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman