DRN-1622278
 
The complaint
Mrs K says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in April 2003.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In November 2002 Mrs K applied for a store card by completing an application form while 
she was shopping. In April 2003, PPI was added to her account following a telephone call.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs K owed on her store card. The policy 
wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs K couldnt work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life cover 
as well as price and purchase protection. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Mrs K disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording. It also hasnt 
been able to provide a copy of the call script used at the time. So I dont know what it may 
have said to Mrs K when the policy was sold. But based on what I do know of the sales 
process and given the fact that PPI was added some time after the store card application 
was made, I think Mrs K would have understood the policy was optional and chose to take it. 
And it certainly cant have been a condition of being granted credit  shed had the card for 
several months already. And the premiums for the policy would have appeared on her 
statements - so if she hadnt agreed to the policy, I think its reasonable to say she wouldve 
queried the premiums shortly after the policy was added to her account.
So, taking all this into consideration, I think Mrs K knew the policy was optional and chose to 
purchase it because she saw some value in it in April 2003.
I dont think AXA advised Mrs K to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with clear information about 
the policy, so she could decide if she wanted to take it out - I cant say that AXA did this.
As Ive explained, I dont know exactly what information Mrs K received about the policy at 
the time of sale. Even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont think this wouldve affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below:
 
Mrs K was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
the exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim 
 such as a pre-existing medical condition. She told us she was employed and in 
good health.
 
Mrs K says she would only have received statutory sick pay if she was away from 
work due to illness. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this; so it could 
have proved useful to Mrs K if she had an accident, became ill or lost her job. She 
could also have benefitted from purchase protection and the additional life cover.
 
Mrs  told us she couldve relied on her family for help if shed needed to, so Ive 
thought about this carefully. And although I understand the point she seeks to make, 
there couldve been no guarantee that her family wouldve been in a position to help 
her at some unknown point in the future.
 
Im not satisfied that AXA made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mrs K to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs K had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she wouldve thought the policy 
potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding balance 
was cleared and the monthly cost does not seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, Im not satisfied that AXA did everything it needed to when it sold the policy to 
Mrs K. But I think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I think she would still 
have taken out the cover if shed been properly informed about it. 
I have taken into account Mrs Ks comments but these do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman