DRN-2844578
The complaint
Mr B complains that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited trading as AA Holiday Home 
Insurance Services (AA) gave inadequate notice of renewal of his holiday home insurance.
What happened
Mr B had holiday home insurance through the AA. By a letter dated 4 April 2019 he received 
notice of renewal from AA for his policy due to be renewed on 18 April. With the notice of 
renewal was a letter which explained that due to the uncertainty over Brexit and the 
extension of Article 50, payment for the policy couldnt be taken at present. It expected 
Article 50 to be extended further but warned that if it wasnt AA wouldnt be able to renew the 
policy. Mr B responded on 6 April that he would like to renew the policy and gave permission 
for his card to be charged as he wouldnt be contactable until after the renewal. AA 
explained in response that it couldnt take payment until the uncertainty over Brexit was 
clarified. Mr B responded asking for more details. On 11 April AA responded advising that it 
could now take payment as Article 50 had been extended. It invited Mr B to call it. Mr B 
responded that he wasnt contactable by telephone. However it was arranged that he would 
make a bank transfer and this occurred on 15 April. He asked for confirmation of receipt but 
didnt receive this until he chased it up.
Mr B made a formal complaint to AA. In particular he complained that AA had given him 
insufficient notice particularly when he was away for two weeks. He also complained that AA 
hadnt sent him confirmation of the payment. AA said that it had given reasonable notice and 
explained the uncertainty over Brexit. It apologised for not sending the confirmation of 
receipt when asked and said this was because the sales adviser had communicated with 
Mr B using her personal email and as a result other members of staff wouldnt have seen 
Mr Bs email. It agreed to refund the £15 customer service fee for renewing the policy.
On referral to this service our investigator said that AA had given Mr B reasonable notice of 
renewal and it was the uncertainty over Brexit that had caused difficulty. She thought the 
refund of the customer service fee for the delay in confirming receipt of payment was 
reasonable.
Mr B disagreed pointing out that for the 2020 renewal he had received four weeks notice 
which further supports his assertion that the notice given in 2019 was unreasonable.
The matter has been passed to me  for further consideration. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs main point of complaint is that he wasnt given sufficient notice of renewal, especially 
in light of the uncertainty surrounding Brexit which meant he was unsure if his policy would 
be renewed. Normally we would regard a period of between 14-30 days for notice of renewal 
to be reasonable. Given that the notice of renewal is an opportunity for the policyholder to 
consider whether they wish to renew or to switch to an alternative provider I think 14 days 
notice would usually be sufficient to enable the policyholder to do this. It was unfortunate that 
Mr B was away at the relevant time but I note he was able to communicate by email.
AA had at the time decided to give the information about Brexit with its standard renewal 
letters and if at the time it was giving 14 days notice I dont think that was unreasonable. At 
the time there were a number of parliamentary votes happening and the whole situation was 
uncertain. I think this uncertainty and any stress caused to Mr B arose because of the Brexit 
negotiations rather than the length of notice. In other words until Article 50 was extended 
there would still have been uncertainty regarding Mr Bs policy. As it transpired AA was able 
to confirm within a week of the renewal notice that it would be able to renew Mr Bs policy. I 
note that the renewal letter that was sent to Mr B in March 2020 gave him four weeks notice 
but there were wholly different uncertainties that applied then and I dont think this implied 
the 2019 renewal period was unreasonable.
In respect of the confirmation receipt I note the delay in providing this. Ive noted that AA 
doesnt generally send such confirmations so wouldnt have automatically done this. I think 
the refund of the customer service fee was reasonable to reflect this delay.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman