DRN-2383145
The complaint
Mr W complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card in April 2001.
What happened
The policy was added to Mr Ws credit card account when he applied for the card online via 
the Egg website.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr W told us that he had the very best type of sickness benefit and the policy only paid out 
for 12 months so there was a strong case for upholding his mis-selling complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
I think Egg made Mr W aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. On the 
online application form Mr W completed there were blank Yes and No options available 
for applicants to say if they wanted PPI with their credit card. Neither was automatically filled 
in. Mr W needed to choose one of those options in order for his application to proceed.
So I think hed have known at the time that he couldve declined PPI if he hadnt wanted it. 
Mr W wouldve had to select the Yes option to include PPI.
Its completely understandable that he mightve forgotten some of these details so long after 
the event. But, on balance, I find that Mr W knew he had a choice about protecting his card 
repayments and he wanted to do so at the time. 
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it still shouldve given Mr W enough information to make a proper decision about 
whether PPI was right for him. And if it didnt do this, I have to decide if this made any overall 
difference to Mr W. 
Its possible some of the information Egg gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, next to where Mr W was asked to decide about the PPI, the cover was 
broadly described, the cost was set out and there was information about the benefits PPI 
offered. 
I think Mr W couldve have benefitted from having the policy. 
Ive taken into account that Mr W had 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half 
pay through work. 
The policy wouldve paid out, in full, for up to 12 months on top of his sick pay. 
So PPI gave him better protection in the event that he was too ill to work.
Bearing in mind that Mr W mightve also had some additional costs if he was too unwell to go 
back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time  
especially when he went down to half pay only. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Ws Egg card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
Mr W told us that he didnt have any savings or other insurance he couldve relied on to 
cover the monthly repayments on his Egg card if he wasnt working. So I can see why he 
mightve wanted to have PPI. 
Having PPI wouldve meant Mr W could be sure hed be able to more than cover his Egg 
card monthly repayments whatever his circumstances. 
And if he was off work for 12 months in a row then the policy wouldve cleared his card 
balance in full. 
Its possible some information Egg gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like that affected Mr W. 
So I dont think better information about the policys limitations wouldve put Mr W off taking 
out PPI. 
I think, when it was trading as Egg, Canada Square Operations Limited couldve explained 
the policy cost better than it did. But Mr W was eligible for the policy. It seems to have been 
affordable for Mr W when he took it out. And, looked at overall, given the benefits PPI 
offered Mr W, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a different decision if better information 
had been provided. 
On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy. 
This means Canada Square Operations Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr W.
But Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W 
because: 
Canada Square Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because 
Canada Square Operations Limited didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair. To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman