DRN-3363101
The complaint
Ms B says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms B opened a Barclaycard on 23 February 2015. She was given a limit of £800. On 2 
September 2015 this was increased to £1,000 and on 8 May 2017 it was increased to 
£1,800. 
Ms B says she was over-indebted and Barclaycard should have seen this from her credit file. 
She wants all interest and charges she paid refunding and the account removed from her 
credit file.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Bs complaint. She found Barclaycard had carried out 
proportionate checks at each stage and made fair lending decisions. 
Ms B disagreed, saying she had over £40,000 debt across 23 accounts and had Barclaycard 
done better checks it would have known this. She asked for an ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance for lenders to follow  
these can be found in their Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Ive reviewed what this 
required Barclaycard to do at the time of Ms Bs credit card application and limit increases.
Before giving Ms B a credit card, Barclaycard was required to carry out a creditworthiness
assessment. This meant it had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that shed be able to make repayments in a sustainable way. These checks werent just 
about how likely it was that it would get its money back  it had to focus on whether the 
repayments would adversely affect Ms Bs financial situation.
There was no set list of checks that Barclaycard had to complete, but it had to make sure the
checks it had completed were proportionate in the circumstances. There were a number of
factors that might affect how extensive these checks needed to be, such as the type and
amount of credit, the customers financial position, their credit history and other financial
commitments.
As credit card accounts are open-ended we also consider the length of time it would have 
taken to repay the credit provided, had a consumer used the full limit that was offered from 
the outset. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Barclaycard did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Ms B. This means in reaching my conclusion I
have considered the following questions:
did Barclaycard complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Ms Bs account application and limit increases to satisfy itself that she would be able 
to repay the debt in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Barclaycard make fair lending decisions?
did Barclaycard act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The application
Barclaycard has provided evidence showing it asked for details of Ms Bs monthly income 
(£1,272) and essential expenditure (£354.07) during the application. It verified her declared 
income with an external source. It asked about her employment and residential status 
(employed and living with parents). It then carried out a credit check to understand Ms Bs 
existing credit commitments and credit history. From these checks it decided it was fair to 
lend to Ms B.
I think these checks were proportionate given the amount of credit being given. And I dont 
think there was anything in the information Barclaycard gathered that ought to have led it to 
make a different decision. The credit check showed Ms B had very little outstanding debt 
(less than £100) and there was no recent adverse data. She had only one other active credit 
card, which was up-to-date, and no loans at the time. So I dont think Barclaycard should 
have been concerned Ms B would be unable to sustainably make her repayments, assuming 
all of the limit was used.
It follows I dont think Barclaycard was wrong to give Ms B this credit card with its £800 limit. 
The credit limit increases 
Each month Barclaycard reviewed how Ms B was using her card  her spending pattern, 
how much of her limit she was using and her payment behaviour. It also received data from 
the one of the credit reference agencies that allowed it to understand Ms Bs ongoing use of 
other credit. It cant provide the report for the months prior to October 2015 but I think its 
reasonable to rely on this when looking at its September 2015 limit increase decision. And 
from it I cant see any reason why Barclaycard ought to have made a different decision. 
Ms B still had a low level of debt, no loans and had managed her account well since 
opening, often making more than the minimum payment.
In May 2017 Barclaycard carried out the same checks, looking at external credit data and 
Ms Bs internal spending and payment history. Whilst this showed Ms B now had taken out a 
loan(s) and had more debt on cards I dont think that it was at such a level that Barclaycard 
ought to have carried out further checks, or not increased the limit. Her payment history 
remained stable.
So, in both instances, I find the checks were proportionate and the decision fair. It follows I 
dont think Barclaycard was wrong to increase Ms Bs credit limit on either occasion.   
Ms B has told us she was severely indebted and struggling financially, but from what I have 
seen  both from the lenders checks and the copy of the full credit file Ms B sent in  this 
wasnt at these times. Rather it was later from 2019 onwards, and for the reasons set out 
above I cant fairly conclude this was as a result of Barclaycards lending decisions. For the same reasons I also dont think Barclaycard is in any way responsible for the barriers Ms B 
says she faces to move jobs due to her credit history.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman