The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) automatically renewed his 
car insurance policy without his consent.
What happened
Mr M bought car insurance from RSA in October 2018. In September 2019 RSA wrote to 
Mr M to say it was time to renew his policy. He called RSA in early October 2019 to discuss 
his premium and said he wanted to shop around and would call back if he couldnt find 
anything cheaper. As RSA didnt hear anything more from Mr M, it renewed his policy later 
the same month. But, by that time, Mr M had already bought another policy elsewhere. 
When Mr M explained what had happened, RSA cancelled the policy and refunded the 
amount it had collected. But Mr M wasnt happy that RSA had renewed his policy without his 
consent. He also complained it had taken a payment without the card holders consent (hed 
used a relatives card to pay for the policy in October 2018). He said hed not been able to 
access his policy documents online because hed had a problem logging into his account. 
And the information hed received from RSA hadnt mentioned the auto renewal process.
RSA said it hadnt been made aware Mr M couldnt access his online account. It said it had 
used the same card to auto renew his policy as hed used when hed first bought the policy. 
It said it had sent details about the auto renew process by email in September 2019. 
However, it accepted it had missed an opportunity to notify Mr M about the auto renewal 
process when hed called RSA in early October 2019 and apologised for not taking that 
opportunity. It paid him £70 for any frustration caused. Mr M wasnt happy with the amount of 
redress and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think RSA needed to take any further action. She didnt think she 
could hold RSA responsible for Mr Ms inability to login to see his online policy documents. 
And she thought the information RSA had given Mr M had clearly explained the auto renewal 
process and how it would collect payment. 
As Mr M remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing to Mr M 
but, having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
DRN-1309005Mr M says RSA had no right to renew his policy, or to seek a payment for it, beyond the 
12 months hed agreed. Many insurance companies use an automatic renewal process. 
There are potentially serious consequences of not being insured and the automatic renewal 
process can help protect customers from the risks of being uninsured because their policy 
has expired. So I dont think its wrong for an insurer to set up a policy to automatically 
renew. But I would expect it to clearly explain to the consumer what it intends to do. And I 
also think it should explain what the consumer has to do if they dont want to automatically 
renew as well as setting out what date the policy will lapse and what the renewal premium is. 
It should also ask the consumer to make sure the information theyve given is correct and 
give contact details if the consumer has any queries. Insurers usually provide details of their 
renewal premium around a month before the renewal date. This gives customers the 
opportunity to shop around. 
In this case, RSA said Mr M opted in to the auto renewal process when he bought his car 
insurance policy in October 2018. It sent him a letter at the time to confirm his authorisation 
to store the details of the payment card hed used so it could auto renew his policy the next 
year. It said it would notify him at least 10 working days in advance of the renewal how much 
it would be collecting. 
RSA then wrote to Mr M in September 2019, about a month before his policy was due to 
end. This letter doesnt refer to the auto renewal process but it says that further letters had 
been sent to Mr Ms email address and his renewal invitation was available on his online 
account. The letters sent by email and the information online explain that his renewal 
payment will be collected automatically. It says he can opt out at any time but, if he decides 
he doesnt want to renew, he needs to let RSA know before the renewal date so it doesnt 
collect the payment. 
In light of the above, I dont think RSA did anything wrong in auto renewing Mr Ms policy in 
October 2019. It notified him of the process when he first bought the policy and again shortly 
before it was due to renew. It also set out what the new premium would be and when it was 
due to be collected. Mr M says he had problems logging into his account online so he never 
read the paper work for his policy. But he didnt notify RSA he had problems logging in and I 
dont think it would therefore be fair to hold it responsible for Mr M not being able to read that 
information. 
Mr M called RSA in early October 2019 to find out how much his premium would be for the 
following year. He wanted to shop around and said he would call back if he couldnt find 
anything cheaper. He didnt say he didnt want to renew his policy and, in light of the 
information RSA had recently sent to Mr M, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to 
renew the policy as scheduled despite this call.
Mr M was also unhappy that RSA had taken money from a card that wasnt his. But it was 
the same card hed used to pay for the policy in October 2018 and the evidence shows that 
RSA notified Mr M it would use the same card again as part of the auto renewal process the 
following year. So, I dont think it was unfair for RSA to use the card to auto renew his policy.
RSA thought it had missed an opportunity in the October 2019 telephone call to confirm that 
Mr Ms policy would auto renew later that month. It apologised for not doing so and paid 
Mr M £70 for any frustration caused. Had RSA told Mr M in that call that his policy would be 
auto renewed later that month, it certainly might have clarified things sooner. But I think 
RSAs apology and payment of £70 provides a fair and reasonable response to this 
particular issue. And, overall, I think RSA has treated Mr M fairly and reasonably by clearly 
explaining what it intended to do before it renewed the policy and took the payment. So I 
dont think it needs to do anything more to settle this complaint.My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has already paid £70 to settle this complaint and I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. I think this amount is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman