DRN-4086165
The complaint
Ms H complains that she was charged interest on her credit card by Santander UK Plc 
(Santander).
What happened
In January 2022, Ms H had two credit cards from Santander.  The older card (A) was opened 
in August 2018 and was closed on 19 January 2022. The newer card (B) was opened in July 
2020  and had an 18-month 0% balance transfer offer which expired on 22 January 2022. A 
balance transfer of £3,500.00 was done on 28 July 2020.
On 14 January 2022, the balances of the cards were zero on card A and £2,937 debit on 
card B. Ms H made a payment of £2,937 to the old card (A). This led to a credit balance of 
£2,937 on card A.
On 16 January 2022, Ms H opened a chat conversation with Santander. She said she had 
mistakenly made the payment to her old card (A) and had wanted to pay off the balance on 
the new card (B). 
On 19 January 2022, Santander sent the credit balance on card A to Ms Hs bank current 
account and closed card A. 
The 0% balance transfer deal on card B ended on 22 January 2022 and interest was applied 
from then on. In July 2022, Santander wrote to Ms H to say she seemed to be paying low 
amounts each month. It was then that Ms H realised she had been charged interest since 
January 2022.
Ms H complained. She said that after the chat with Santander, she called and spoke to an 
adviser on 18 January 2022. She says that on the call, she was told that in fact, the payment 
did go to the correct card, so nothing needed to be done. The adviser said the interest-free 
period on card B didnt end for several months. The adviser asked if Ms H wished to close 
the old card (A) and Ms H confirmed she did, and the advisor closed it.
Ms H said she considered the matter closed and was surprised to get a letter about card B in 
July 2022 which said she was making low monthly payments. She found this odd as she 
thought there wasnt a balance on card B. She logged on and saw that she had been 
charged monthly interest on card B since February 2022  of more than £200. She paid off 
the balance and complained to Santander.
Ms H complains that the charges applied on card B are a result of Santanders mistake. She 
says she was misadvised on the phone. She says she was told the payment had gone to 
card B and paid off the balance. And that the interest free period ended much later than 
January 2022 in any case. She says she didnt log on to look at her statements  as there 
was no need to as she considered the balance had been paid off. She says Santander didnt 
advise her of the interest accruing until July 2022  which wasnt fair. She says Santander 
should refund the interest paid and pay compensation of £200.
In August 2022, Santander said the interest free period on card B ended on 22 January 
2022. A text message was sent to Ms H on 31 December 2021 to remind her. And the date 
of the end of the interest free date was noted on each monthly statement beforehand. 
Santander refunded the most recent months interest of £32.28 as a gesture of goodwill.
Santander sent a further final response on 30 August 2022. This said the balance transfer 
expired on 22 January 2022. The statements sent to Ms H since it was taken out in July 
2020 showed this. On 14 January 2022, Ms H made a payment to card A of £2,937. On 16 
January 2022, she contacted the live chat service. She asked to transfer the payment from 
card A to card B. On the chat, Santander advised that they couldnt do that, and they needed 
to return the credit balance on card A to her bank account, and she would need to make the 
payment to card B separately. And to do that, Ms H needed to call Santander to arrange for 
the credit balance on card A to be repaid. 
Santander said Ms H called on 18 January 2022, but the call was disconnected. But on it, 
Ms H said she wanted to transfer the credit balance to her bank account. Santanders call 
handler tried to call Ms H back, but there was no reply. So they went ahead and transferred 
the balance of card A to her bank account on 19 January 2022  and sent a text to confirm 
that.
Ms H brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander acted reasonably. He 
said there was no record of the call on 18 January 2022, other than a short call  which was 
disconnected after Ms H said she wanted to transfer the funds (from card A) back to her 
bank account. Santander had tried to call Ms H back later that day, without success. Ms H 
received monthly statements for card B, so wouldve been aware that a balance was 
outstanding.
Ms H didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint. So, it has come to 
me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H intended to make a payment of £2,937 to card B to pay off the card balance before the 
interest free period ended on 22 January 2022. She admits she probably made a mistake 
and made the payment instead to card A  which had a nil balance up to then. So  she then 
contacted Santander to correct matters.
I reviewed the evidence we have about what happened.
Chat text: Ms H contacted Santander on webchat on 16 January 2022. I reviewed this. Its 
clear to me that Santander issued clear instructions as to what to do. The chat says (Ms H:) 
I made a manual payment but to the wrong credit card. I have two. Please can this payment 
be transferred to the correct card - my most recent one. I now have a large credit on the 
wrong card! Thank you. I'd like to close the account with the large credit on it. I only need the 
most recent card. Thanks.
Santanders advisor responded:  I cannot sadly transfer the money from one credit card to 
another, but instead we would transfer the credit balance back to either a bank account and 
savings account in your name, and then you would need to make a payment from there to 
the right card again. Moving money between two credit cards isn't currently possible I'm 
sorry.  Because the amount of credit money on the credit card is now over £2000, you will 
need to contact our credit cards team over the phone on XXX, because additional security needs to be completed before the money can be transferred. Over chat we are limited in 
terms of what security can be completed
Call on 18 January 2022: this lasted only 58 seconds. On it, Ms H said she had been on the 
chat service. She had made a payment to her old card and there was a large (credit) 
balance on it. Ms H said shed been told she had to arrange payment of the balance back to 
her bank account, so thats what Im doing And  the call then ended. So  as far as the 
call goes  Ms H was asking to pay the credit balance on card A to her bank account.
Ms H says the call was for ten minutes and maintains the call handler told her the payment 
had gone to the correct account and that the interest free period didnt end in January 2022. 
Ive considered this. Santander have showed us their call logs  there was only one inbound 
call from Ms H that day, and it was for 58 seconds. So  theres no evidence there was a 
longer call. There is evidence that Santander tried to call Ms H back  but there wasnt a 
reply. Ms H says they did that to correct their mistake  but Ive seen no evidence to say that 
was the case.
Transfer of balance of £2,937 from card A: Santander actioned this and made a payment to 
Ms Hs bank account on 19 January 2022. Im persuaded that this is consistent with the chat 
text, and with the brief call on 18 January 2022. And  Ive seen evidence that Santander 
sent Ms H a text on the same day to confirm that. It said,  we have transferred your credit 
balance of £xx from your credit card xxx to your (bank account) on 19/01/2022. So  Ms 
H was advised what had happened.
Ms Hs bank account. Ms H says she didnt realise or see the credit to her bank account until 
some months later. Im persuaded that isnt a reasonable thing to assume  a large credit of 
£2,937 would reasonably be noticed by Ms H, particularly as it was the amount that Ms H 
had wanted to switch between the cards  and was the subject of the chat with Santander on 
16 January 2022. So  I think its reasonable to say that Ms H shouldve seen the credit and 
realised what had happened, or at least contacted Santander to question it. And  Santander 
had texted Ms H to say what theyd done. 
Statements on card B: I reviewed these. And on every statement since the balance transfer 
deal was agreed in July 2020, the statements show it expired on 22 January 2022. And 
Santander sent Ms H a text to remind her on 31 December 2021  Ive seen evidence it was 
sent, and Ms H confirmed she got that, so there is no dispute about that.
Ms H also got monthly statements after January 2022. Ive reviewed these. These showed 
interest being applied each month. Ms H argues that she didnt have reason to log on  as 
she assumed the card had been paid off. But Im not persuaded that was a reasonable thing 
to do. I say that as the statements also show the monthly direct debit being paid from Ms Hs 
bank account. These ranged from £71.88 in February 2022 to £70.84 in July 2022. I think its 
reasonable to say that Ms H shouldve noticed this amount being debited from her bank 
account each month  and realised there was a balance on card B. 
So, on the balance of evidence here  it seems to me that Ms H made an honest mistake 
when she paid the money to the wrong card. But she did have the opportunity and 
information to correct that. So  I dont think Santander did anything wrong and so in the 
circumstances of this complaint, Im not asking them to do anything here,
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman