DRN-3329153
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC recorded incorrect information on her credit file 
which led to a mortgage application with a separate lender being declined.  
What happened
Miss B says she applied for a mortgage with Lender B in October 2014 but this was 
declined. Miss B says she then secured a mortgage with a separate lender but at a higher 
interest rate. Miss B says she then found out in 2020 that in 2014 Lloyds Bank had 
registered a default against an account she held with them. Miss B complained to Lloyds 
Bank and they accepted theyd made an error. Lloyds Bank said, when Miss Bs account 
closed, they wrote the debt off as it was within their tolerance levels and then applied a 
default on Miss Bs credit file. Lloyds Bank said they applied the default in error and 
apologised for this. Lloyds Bank said, as theyd applied the default in error when they 
shouldnt have, they didnt issue any letters to inform Miss B of this. Lloyds Bank explained 
they will be taking steps to remove the default and offered £500 compensation, which they 
said theyd be paying into her account. 
Lloyds Bank explained they understand Miss B says the default caused her mortgage 
application in 2014 to be declined and she therefore had to take out a mortgage with a 
higher interest rate. Lloyds Bank said they would need evidence that the declined mortgage 
and interest rate was solely affected by the default. And, if that evidence is provided, theyd 
need the mortgage interest rate Miss B was declined and the rate of interest for the 
subsequent mortgage application which was accepted. Lloyds Bank said they could then 
consider the interest rate difference and potentially reimburse this. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B. She agreed Lloyds Bank had made an error 
and felt the compensation payment of £500 was fair. So, she said she wouldnt be asking 
Lloyds Bank to take any further steps. Miss B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the compensation paid by Lloyds Bank is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances, so I dont uphold the complaint. I understand Miss B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Miss B. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Lloyds Bank have admitted they got things wrong when they registered a default on 
Miss Bs credit file. The only issue I have to decide is whether Lloyds Banks offer to put 
things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Lloyds Bank should compensate Miss B for the upset and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. Theres a number of factors here that Ive taken into 
consideration when deciding what I think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. Ill 
start by saying that I can understand why Miss B was upset when she found out there was a 
default incorrectly recorded on her credit file. I think its important to add though, that while 
the error itself occurred in 2014  when Lloyds Bank registered the default  it wasnt until 
2020 that Miss B found out about it. So, I cant say the default wouldve worried Miss B prior 
to 2020, as she wasnt yet aware of the issue. From the point Miss B found out, I accept this 
caused shock and worry for Miss B to know that there was incorrect information on her credit 
file from 2014. 
I can see Lloyds Bank have taken steps to remove the default from Miss Bs credit file. I 
think its important theyve done this as it puts Miss B back in the position she wouldve been 
in had the error not occurred, and in this case, that means a credit file showing no default 
against this account. It also ensures the impact of the error doesnt continue. Taking this all 
into account, I think the compensation of £500 already paid by Lloyds Bank is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
I understand Miss B says her mortgage application with Lender B was declined on the basis 
she didnt pass their credit check. She says she had no issues with obtaining credit prior to 
the default being incorrectly registered. Ive looked into this, but Im not persuaded the 
default had an impact on Miss Bs application being declined. I say this because Miss B 
confirms Lender B declined her application in early October 2014, but the information shows 
the default was registered in November 2014. So, I cant say the default wouldve been a 
factor Lender B wouldve taken into account. 
Lenders will have their own lending criteria and will consider a range of factors when 
deciding the terms on which they agree to lend to a customer and ultimately this is a 
commercial decision. So, I dont think Lloyds Bank have been unreasonable in their 
approach to addressing this part of Miss Bs complaint. Theyve confirmed theyll consider 
any difference in interest rates if Miss B is able to provide evidence that the default was the 
only issue which led to the mortgage application being declined. I can see our investigator 
has also approached Lender B direct to ask for any information which shows what they took 
into account when declining the application. Lender B have confirmed, due to the passage of 
time, they no longer hold any application information. While I do fully acknowledge Miss Bs 
frustrations around having to take out a mortgage with a higher interest rate, taking the 
above into account, I cant fairly ask Lloyds Bank to pay for the interest rate difference in the 
mortgage terms. 
Miss B also says she bought a car in 2015 by borrowing money from her mum as she didnt 
pass the credit checks for a lease car. I acknowledge Miss B says this was frustrating for her 
as she believes she didnt pass the credit check due to the default. But, again, I havent seen 
any evidence which shows the declined application for the lease car was solely down to the 
default. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC have already paid Miss B £500 compensation, 
which is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman