DRN-1553802
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Anglian Windows Ltd (Anglian) dealt with and settled a claim he 
made under his insurance policy for broken patio door handles at his property.
What happened
Mr M holds a Guarantee Plus insurance policy, which was arranged by Anglian. When this 
policy was incepted Mr M was sent a policy document, insurance product information and a 
policy schedule, which included maintenance instructions on the reverse.
Mr Ms policy covers the repair and replacement of windows, doors, locks, hinges and 
handles at his home if they fail or break due to defective workmanship or materials. 
In 2017, Anglian said Mr M made a claim under his policy as two handles on the patio doors 
at his home address werent working properly. Due to the length of time that had elapsed 
since Mr Ms windows and doors were fitted Anglian couldnt repair the patio door handles. 
So, it replaced the affected patio doors. This claim is not the subject of a complaint.
Within a short time of the previous claim being settled, Mr M contacted Anglian again in 
order to report that five handles on other patio doors at his home address werent working 
properly. He asked Anglian to either repair or replace the affected units.
Anglian said it was concerned that so many handles had failed at the same time. So, it sent 
a service engineer to inspect Mr Ms property to determine the cause of damage. 
When the engineer attended Mr Ms home, they confirmed that five patio door handles 
needed to be replaced. But they informed Anglian that, when they asked Mr M if hed 
regularly oiled and maintained the handles and doors, he said he hadnt.
Based on the information provided by Anglians surveyor it declined to cover Mr Ms claim. It 
said it was satisfied the damage to the handles he was claiming for had been caused by a 
failure to lubricate them, which was excluded by his policy.   
Mr M wasnt happy with how Anglian proposed to resolve his claim. He said hed regularly 
oiled the handles and theyd broken due to total mechanical failure. He didnt accept the 
damage had happened due to poor maintenance. And he complained to our service that 
Anglian wouldnt meet his claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They werent persuaded Anglian had acted unfairly in relying on its surveyors 
opinion. And they didnt think it had made an error in declining Mr Ms claim. But he 
disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
I can see Mr M has gone to some trouble to provide our service with detailed submissions 
and feels very strongly that his claim should be met by Anglian. I want to assure him that Ive 
read everything hes sent us. I hope hell understand if I dont address every comment hes 
made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint  
namely whether Anglian made a mistake, or treated him unfairly, such that it needs to now 
put things right.
Theres no dispute that five patio door handles at Mr Ms property arent operating properly. 
But theres a dispute between Mr M and Anglian about why the handles have failed and the 
correct outcome of this claim. 
In determining whether Anglian acted fairly in declining Mr Ms claim for damage to his door 
handles Ive considered the photographs provided to our service, the terms of the insurance 
policy Mr M holds, what Anglians engineer says about the cause of damage and the 
account Mr M has given.
The photographs Ive seen of the affected patio door handles at Mr Ms property dont show 
why they arent functioning correctly. So, they dont assist me in assessing this complaint. I 
can see Mr M told our investigator that in order to see how his handles are broken theyd 
need to visit his home and inspect the handles in person. However, as our investigator has 
explained, this isnt a service we can offer.
The insurance policy Mr M holds with Anglian covers the repair or replacement of his 
windows, doors, locks, hinges and handles in the event that they have failed due to 
defective workmanship or materials. Its clear that if the failure of an Anglian product isnt 
due to defective workmanship or materials it wont be covered under this policy. 
The insurance goes on to state that if a policyholder is to benefit from the policy they are 
required to comply with Anglians cleaning instructions that are shown on the reverse of the 
policy schedule. This information is emphasised in Anglians insurance product information 
document", which states:
The insured person must adhere to Anglian Windows Limiteds maintenance instructions. 
These can be found on the reverse of the document titled Policy Schedule. In particular, 
the insured person should note the cleaning instructions for glass and frames; as well as the 
lubrication instructions for mechanical moving parts such as locks.
Having carefully considered the reverse of the policy schedule Im satisfied Anglian outlines 
the maintenance requirements of its products in clear, intelligible language. Its also made 
clear that Anglian reserves the right to make a reasonable charge to replace any lock, hinge 
or handles that fails to operate properly due to lack of lubrication, even though such failure 
occurs within Anglians guarantee period. 
Mr M hasnt told our service he didnt receive the policy documentation Anglian said it 
provided him with. So, Im satisfied Anglian presented clear information to Mr M about his 
obligations to maintain his windows, doors, hinges and handles and that it wouldnt cover a 
claim for damage if he failed to follow the maintenance instructions outlined in his policy 
documentation. Anglians engineer reported that Mr M admitted he hadnt regularly oiled and maintaining the 
affected handles and doors. But Mr M denies having a conversation with Anglians engineer 
about whether he adhered to the maintenance instructions set out in his policy.
While Anglians engineer didnt complete a report or visit log, I think its likely that, when they 
attended Mr Ms property to inspect the handles he was claiming for, they asked him about 
whether hed maintained the handles and doors in line with his policy requirements. I say this 
because, as Ive already outlined, its a condition of making a successful claim.
Its clear that Mr M disagrees with the evidence Anglian has presented about why the 
handles have failed. However, he hasnt provided evidence that demonstrates the door 
handles have failed due to a mechanical defect as he claims. Im satisfied Mr M could have 
obtained an independent report showing the cause of the problem with his door handles. As 
he hasnt done so, theres no evidence available that contradicts the opinion of Anglians 
engineer as to the reason why the door handles failed here.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that 
Anglian acted unreasonably in relying on its engineers opinion of the cause of damage here. 
And this means I cant find its decision to decline Mr Ms claim was unfair.
I can see Mr M has suggested that Anglian is attempting to avoid paying out on his policy. 
But Im not persuaded thats the case here. I say this because Anglian settled Mr Ms 
previous claim by replacing the affected patio doors at his property. Mr M told our service 
Anglian settled that claim without any question or quibble. I therefore dont think Anglian 
are seeking to unfairly avoid paying out of a claim here as Mr M is suggesting.
I understand that Mr Ms patio door handles are yet to be repaired or replaced. As mentioned 
already, under his policy hes able to ask Anglian to replace his door handles at a 
reasonable charge. If he still wishes to replace his door handles, he should approach 
Anglian directly in order to discuss the same.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. But based on the evidence available to 
our service, Im satisfied the damage to his door handles isnt covered by his policy. It 
follows that Im not going to direct Anglian to do anything further here. This now brings to an 
end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Ms dispute with Anglian informally, can do for him. Im 
sorry we cant help Mr M any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman