DRN-4284150
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains that GoCardless Ltd has declined to cancel a 
contract. L says that its employee who signed the contract had no authority to do so.
What happened
In February 2022, Ls Head of Operations and Finance signed a contract, on behalf of L, for 
merchant services from GoCardless. 
In March 2023, L complained to GoCardless that the person whod signed the contract 
wasnt authorised to do so. L said that, as a result, there was no legal contract between the 
parties. GoCardless disagreed and said the contract remained in place and the invoices 
remained payable. L then referred its complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ls complaint should be upheld. He gave the 
following reasons, in summary:
In his view, hed expect the head of finance to be able to make financial decisions for 
the company, so he couldnt say GoCardless acted unreasonably when it accepted 
that authority.
L claims that its signatory and the GoCardless sales agent were friends, but theres 
no evidence of this. Looking at the relevant emails, theres no suggestion of a 
relationship before the discussion of the contract.
The question of whether the contract is binding would be better suited to a court. Our 
service makes decisions based on whats fair and reasonable. In this case, the 
contract was signed by a senior employee on Ls behalf. The investigator couldnt 
see this was an obvious error by GoCardless.
L didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. The companys Finance Director made the 
following points, in summary:
The onus was on GoCardless to ensure that the person signing the contract proved 
he had binding authority.
Head of Operations and Finance' is in most businesses a mid-level role. A senior 
role would have a Director title. 
Theres no proof that Ls Director agreed with the signing of the contract. Proof that 
this contract was erroneous is clear in the fact that Ls Director had the direct debit 
halted when he found out about it.
What the investigator is suggesting is that any mid-level employee can go around 
signing contracts on behalf of their company without due authority.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Both parties say theyve received advice that supports their respective positions on whether 
the contract is legally binding. My role is not to determine the legal validity of the contract. I 
have no powers to do that, and its a matter that only a court could decide. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service was established to resolve disputes quickly and with minimum 
formality, and my role is to determine the complaint by what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
The core question I need to answer is whether GoCardless acted fairly and reasonably in 
accepting the signature of Ls employee on the contract. 
In my view, it was fair and reasonable to regard a person with the title of Head of Operations 
and Finance as having sufficient seniority and authority to sign a merchant services contract 
on behalf of the company. L argues that GoCardless should have regarded the Head of 
Operations and Finance as a mid-level role without authority to sign such contracts, but I 
disagree. I think the inclusion of the words Head of inescapably denotes responsibility for 
the functions in the rest of the title  in this case, responsibility for Ls operations and 
finance. For this reason, I dont think GoCardless did anything wrong in accepting the 
signature on the contract, or in accepting the implied assurance that the signatory had the 
authority to sign. I dont think GoCardless needed to do anything more to establish that the 
person signing the contract possessed the required authority. 
L says the service was never used, and its clear that others in the company later wished 
that L didnt have the contract. But that doesnt change my view on whether it was 
reasonable for GoCardless to accept the signature of Ls Head of Operations and Finance 
on the contract.
L has suggested that its Head of Operations and Finance and the GoCardless sales agent 
were friends. But the GoCardless agent has denied knowing Ls employee, and Im satisfied 
theres nothing in the communications between them that suggests anything other than a 
customer-supplier relationship. L hasnt provided any evidence to support its allegation. 
Moreover, such friendships arent uncommon in the world of business, and controlling the 
risks posed to the parties would in my view be a matter for their own procurement 
governance. In this respect, I note that Ls Director was sent a copy of the contract both 
before and after it was signed by the Head of Operations and Finance. L says that doesnt 
mean he approved the contract or that he even read the email. But in my opinion, it does 
show that GoCardless was willing at the time to give the most senior person at L full view of 
the contract.
For these reasons, I conclude that GoCardless didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in 
accepting the signature of Ls Head of Operations and Finance on the contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman