DRN-2868794
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) provided poor service for his 
pension policy. This included removing online access to his policy without informing him, 
poor communication of other changes to his policy, and failing to respond to his questions.
What happened
Mr W has a pension policy with Aviva. He regularly used the myaviva app to view his policy 
value. During April 2020, this facility was withdrawn without explanation. Mr W was invested 
in three funds. He said that approximately 75% of his investment was in a property fund. 
Mr W told this service that when hed failed to access the app, a message said that his policy 
had either lapsed or been cancelled, or there had been an error by Aviva. He tried 
unsuccessfully to log into the member site at this point. He said hed found this extremely 
upsetting. 
Mr W called Aviva to ask them about the issue with his access to the app. He said that he 
spoke with five people at Aviva, but that no one could answer his questions properly. He said 
that four of the people hed spoken to told him he could call at any time to find out his 
policys value. But that one person had told him he wouldnt be able to do that. 
Mr W said he was told that because the property fund he was invested in had been 
suspended, he shouldnt have been able to see the value of his policy online since the date 
of the suspension. And that this was the reason his access to the app had been suspended. 
Mr W also raised concern that Aviva were unable to tell him for how long his property 
investment would be suspended. 
Mr W said that someone from Aviva called him and told him she would get to the bottom of 
his queries and reply to him. But that she didnt contact him again. He said that Aviva had 
sent him emails that he couldnt access with the password theyd sent. 
Mr W complained to Aviva on 1 May 2020. As well as the points detailed earlier, he wanted 
clarification about why Aviva could tell him at any point what his policy value was, but he 
couldnt see the same value on the app. He also wanted to know how they could value the 
properties in the fund given theyd suspended it. Mr W also asked Aviva if they intended to 
continue to charge a management charge during the period the property fund was 
suspended. Mr W also asked Aviva to explain why theyd used the wrong employer name for 
his pension policy. He also said he wanted Aviva to reinstate his access to the app and the 
member site.
On 7 May 2020, Mr W emailed Aviva about his continued lack of access to the member site. 
And on 10 May 2020, he spoke to them about the message shown when he accessed the 
member site. He said it didnt refer to the suspension of the property fund. But that it gave 
the message that the policy had been lapsed or cancelled. He told Aviva this had caused 
anxiety about what had happened to his pension policy.
On 13 May 2020, Aviva emailed policy information, including a policy value. 
Unhappy with Avivas responses, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. 
Aviva issued their final response on the complaint on 1 June 2020. They upheld the 
complaint and apologised that the member site wording had caused Mr W concern. And said 
they would arrange for £100 to be paid to Mr W to say sorry. They also confirmed that Mr 
Ws policy hadnt been lapsed or cancelled. Aviva explained that theyd temporarily 
suspended the property fund from 20 March 2020. They said this was because the 
coronavirus pandemic was making it difficult to accurately value properties. Aviva said they 
couldnt offer online access to the policy while the property fund was deferred. They said this 
was because the values of deferred funds may not be accurate. They acknowledged that 
only one of Mr Ws funds was deferred. But said that due to a limitation in their website they 
couldnt offer partial access to a policy. Aviva said that the plan information letter theyd sent 
on 13 May 2020 had included a value for the property fund. They said that due to the 
suspension of that fund, the value couldnt be guaranteed to be accurate. 
Mr W requested further information from Aviva in June 2020. They replied in July 2020. But 
Mr W said he couldnt access the information theyd sent. Aviva re-sent the information and 
told Mr W to let them know if he still had issues accessing it. On 20 July 2020, Mr W asked 
Aviva three further questions related to the suspension of the fund. He told this service on 22 
August 2020 that hed still not received useful responses from Aviva. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He felt that although Mr W did now 
understand why online access had been suspended, Aviva had failed to respond to a 
number of his complaint points. These were:
The conflicting information given on calls about the valuation of the policy and about 
whether he could find out the balance of his pension over the phone, noting that this 
was very important to Mr W
The length of the property funds deferment
Why Aviva had used the wrong employer name
Our investigator felt that Aviva should respond to Mr Ws remaining questions. And that they 
should increase their compensation by £100  leading to a total payment of £200 - to reflect 
the further trouble and upset theyd caused. 
Mr W told this service that he hadnt received the £100 Aviva had originally offered. He said 
he wouldnt be happy with £200 in total. He felt Aviva needed to improve their service. He 
said that the online portal gave a value of the fund. But that as Aviva had told him it could be 
wrong, he felt it shouldnt be published. 
Our investigator told Mr W that while he agreed that Aviva hadn't provided good service, he 
could only consider his experiences and his complaint individually. He said that any issues 
that were wider would need to be dealt with by the regulator.
Aviva asked our investigator to clarify what Mr W still needed. They said the property 
suspension had been lifted and Mr W had been receiving a pension from them since the end 
of 2020. They felt theyd already answered most of his questions. But acknowledged that 
theyd not explained why theyd used the wrong employer name. They said theyd used the 
employer name that his payments were received from. And not the name of the arm of the 
firm hed worked for, which was also the name of the scheme hed been in. Therefore they 
said the information hed been given wasnt incorrect, but had never been explained to him.Our investigator asked Mr W to confirm the outstanding questions he wanted Aviva to 
answer. He then asked Aviva:
Why the £100 compensation offered hadnt been paid. 
For the call recordings to be provided, specifically the call on 10 May 2020.
To confirm that all policyholders had been treated the same in respect of the 
suspension of the online app access.
About a fund transfer Mr W had asked to be carried out which he said hadnt been. 
Our investigator wasnt clear whether this had been raised with Aviva or not. 
Aviva said that as Mr W had never sent them his preferred payment details, requested in 
their final response letter, the £100 was still waiting to be paid. They said theyd make the 
payment as soon as they got the information requested. They provided the call recording 
from 10 May 2020. In this call they explained that online access was restricted to anyone 
that held the suspended fund. Mr W said he understood why the fund had been deferred, but 
not why Aviva could still provide him with a fund value if he called them. He felt it must be 
incorrect.
Aviva confirmed that they had suspended access to all policyholders who were invested in 
the property fund. The said this was to prevent customers making alterations when a fund 
was suspended. They also explained that there had been instances where their main system 
updated correctly while a fund was suspended but online services wouldnt. They said Mr W 
could still access all the necessary pension information during this time. Aviva also said that 
online access wasnt a guaranteed service. And that their process was to remove access 
during such a time. Aviva also provided an email theyd sent to Mr W on 20 October 2020 
which confirmed that the fund switch requested had been completed. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the redress should 
be increased from the £100 Aviva offered. Ill explain why. 
Before I do that, I understand that Mr W has now taken his pension from Aviva. Therefore, 
although some of the issues he raised with them are no longer an issue for him personally, 
hed like them to improve their service so that other customers arent similarly affected.
Our investigator felt that Aviva hadn't provided good service, but explained that he could only 
consider Mr Ws experiences and his complaint individually. He said that any issues that 
were wider would need to be dealt with by the regulator. I confirm that this is the case. 
Therefore, although I acknowledge that Mr W wanted this service to force Aviva: to take 
responsibility for the gravity of what they are dealing with, i.e. peoples life savings, we are 
unable to tell them how they should run their business. 
In respect of Mr Ws individual complaint, I first considered whether Aviva acted fairly when 
they suspended access to the app.
Should access to the app have been restored?Mr W regularly used the myaviva app to view his policy value. So he was disappointed when 
access to it was removed without notice.
Aviva explained that theyd removed access because the property fund Mr W was invested 
in had been suspended. The said this was to prevent customers from attempting to make 
alterations to a suspended fund. I understand that Aviva had decide that they wouldnt 
proactively communicate the suspension of the property fund to their customers in an effort 
to calm any potential unrest. 
Mr W didnt think that Aviva had restricted access to all customers in his position. Aviva 
confirmed to this service that they did restrict access for all of their customers in this position 
during the property fund deferment. They said thered been incidents in the past when the 
main system had updated correctly, but their online servers hadnt. 
Aviva told this service that the online service isnt guaranteed. The said customers can still 
access information. And that the online platform isnt contractual. Therefore when it is 
available it is a bonus. They said that the contractual form of accessing information via 
written request or telephone is always available.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Aviva acted fairly and reasonably when they 
suspended Mr Ws access to the online platform. I say this because Aviva acted in line with 
their terms and conditions, and they treated Mr W the same as all of their other customers.
Ill now consider Avivas communication with Mr W.
Communication issues
In his original complaint to Aviva, Mr W said that theyd given him conflicting information on 
calls about the valuation of his policy and about whether he could find out the balance of his 
pension over the phone. Aviva confirmed that he could get the balance of his pension over 
the phone, but didnt explain why Mr W had been told differently at one point.
Mr W also told this service that hed spoken with five people at Aviva, but that no one could 
answer his questions. He said that one of the five people hed spoken to had told him he 
wouldnt be able to call Aviva to find out his policys value. He also said that someone from 
Aviva called him and told him shed get to the bottom of his queries and reply to him. But that 
she didnt contact him again. 
Mr W wanted to understand why, as Aviva could provide a fund value over the phone, they 
couldnt show it on the app like they had done. He said theyd continued to show his policy 
value online after the property fund had been suspended. He provided a screenshot of his 
policys value after that date. While Aviva have explained why they removed access to the 
online service, I cant see that theyve explained why Mr W could still see the policy value 
online for several weeks after the fund suspension.
Mr W also asked Aviva if they would still charge a management charge for the suspended 
property fund, even though they werent managing it. I cant see that Aviva ever responded 
to this point. 
Mr W was also unhappy that when online access was withdrawn, the messages displayed 
said:
We could not find any policies to view. Were sorry, it looks like you dont have any policies 
available to view online.Reasons why you may not see any policies:
X your policies may have lapsed or been cancelled
X there may have been an error on our side
As he also had no access to the member site, these messages caused a great deal of 
concern for Mr W. 
Aviva apologised, and offered Mr W £100 compensation for the concern that the member 
site wording had caused him. They asked him to let them his bank account details. But I 
understand that as these details werent provided, they have yet to make this payment.
Mr W also said that Aviva werent able to help him understand how long the property fund 
might be deferred for. He wanted to know what stopped them from deferring a fund forever. 
He said he understood that the fund could be deferred for six months, but it could be longer 
or shorter. He said hed received no information from Aviva except that they could do what 
they thought best. 
Regarding the deferral of the fund, whilst I understand why this information was important to 
Mr W, I dont consider that Aviva couldve told him when exactly the suspension would be 
lifted. They simply didnt know how long the pandemic would impact the property market. 
Aviva told this service that they always try to carry out clarification calls to find out exactly 
what the customer wants in order to resolve the complaint. They said theyd done this with 
Mr W. And that theyd addressed the concerns he discussed with him in their final response 
letter. 
Ive considered the evidence and what both parties have told this service. While I can see 
that Aviva answered some of Mr Ws complaint points in their final response letter, Im not 
satisfied that they answered all of them. This led to Mr W remaining uncertain about his 
policy value and about his imminent retirement plans. However, Ive seen no evidence of the 
lack of response leading to any financial loss. And I acknowledge that Aviva took reasonable 
steps to answer Mr Ws remaining questions as part of this complaint process.
I acknowledge that Aviva offered £100 compensation, specifically for the wording that was 
used to alert customers that they no longer had access to their policies online. I can 
understand how upsetting this wouldve been for Mr W, as it wasnt immediately clear what 
had happened to his policy. But I can see that an explanation was given a few days letter. 
Overall, I consider that the level of compensation offered for this issue was fair and 
reasonable. 
Aviva havent offered further compensation for their failure to respond to Mr Ws additional 
questions from his original complaint. Nor have they offered any compensation for the 
service issues Mr W experienced when he spoke to Aviva on the phone. I consider that 
further compensation should be paid for these service failings. I agree with our investigator 
that a further £100 would be reasonable in this case. I say this because although the service 
was poor, I dont consider that it led to any financial loss for Mr W, or to him taking actions 
that he otherwise wouldnt have taken. I do, however, understand that it mustve been 
frustrating to not get clear answers from Aviva more quickly.
In summary, Im going to uphold the complaint. While I consider that Aviva acted fairly when 
they removed online access from Mr W after the suspension of the property fund, I consider 
that they should pay additional compensation  over and above the £100 already offered  
for the additional service failings outlined above. I acknowledge that Mr W may be disappointed by this outcome as he wanted my decision to 
force Aviva to make business changes to ensure their service improved. As Ive explained, 
its not in this services power to do this.
Other complaint point
In follow-up communication with this service after our investigator gave his view on the 
complaint, Mr W also complained about a fund transfer hed asked Aviva to carry out. Our 
investigator was unsure whether this had been raised with Aviva or not. 
Our investigator told Mr W that hed not investigated any issues regarding the fund transfer. 
He said that Mr W had told him that this was not a concern. He also didnt think that Aviva 
had investigated it.
Aviva confirmed that that the fund transfer was eventually carried out correctly. And said that 
theyd emailed Mr W about this in October 2020, but hadnt received anything further from 
him on this issue. 
As this issue didnt form part of the complaint addressed by Aviva in their 1 June 2020 final 
response letter, and as Mr W has told this service that it wasnt a concern, Ive not 
investigated this point further.
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay Mr W a total of £200 compensation. If theyve 
already paid the £100 compensation they originally offered, they may allow for this in the 
payment they make to Mr W.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons explained above. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
must take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman