DRN-4206899
The complaint
Mr M complains about issues he faced when trying to open an account with 
Northern Bank Limited, trading as Danske Bank.
What happened
Mr M, an existing customer of Danske Bank, wanted to open a new account to assist with 
funds from his late brothers estate. Mr M was unhappy with Danske Banks account opening 
process. 
Briefly, the key points are:
Mr M is unhappy that the account opening process took longer than it should have. 
For example, he had trouble with the systems questions around his nationality and 
income. 
Mr M is unhappy that a member of staff told him he would need to contact a solicitor 
to obtain letters of administration. 
Mr M, over the course of several months, raised his concerns with Danske Bank  but none 
of the banks responses resolved things to his satisfaction.
 
On 10 October 2022, Danske Bank sent Mr M a letter which said that it considered the 
matter to be closed. So, shortly afterwards, Mr M contacted our service for an independent 
review.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened and, having considered all of the 
information available, he didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Our investigator 
said Danske Bank had told Mr M that his concerns over its online application would be 
raised internally, and that was a reasonable response to his feedback.
 
Additionally, given the circumstances surrounding why Mr M needed a new account, our 
investigator didnt think it unreasonable of Danske Banks staff to have discussed the 
services of a solicitor.
 
Mr M remained unhappy and, in summary, he said that a solicitor wasnt necessary to obtain 
probate or letters of administration. So, Danske Bank shouldnt be telling customers 
otherwise.
 
Moreover, Mr M reiterated that Danske Banks questions in the online account opening 
process were so misleading that he couldnt open a new account. He again drew attention to 
the question of nationality, specifically that the name of a country isnt a correct answer for 
nationality  but this was the only option Danske Banks system provided.
  
As an agreement hasnt been reached, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset  given Mr Ms clear frustration at Danske Banks account opening process  I 
believe its important to explain that the role of this service is not to ask a business to alter its 
policies and procedures. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
 
Instead, our role here is to look at whether Danske Bank did anything wrong when dealing 
with Mr Ms request and to determine if it treated him fairly.
 
Its unfortunate that Mr M had such trouble when he attempted to open an account online. 
Hes explained how the online application questions were misleading, and I know he has 
particular concerns about how Danske asks an applicants nationality.
On that specifically, I do understand the point Mr M is making. Ive also noted his wider 
concerns about Danske Banks money laundering obligations. As Ive already explained, 
though, I have no power to tell Danske Bank to amend or change its procedures  including 
the way in which its online application questions are set up. So, if Mr M does wish to pursue 
that point, hell need to contact the regulator about it.
 
In any event, in this specific instance, even if Mr M couldnt select a nationality, he could still 
select a nation  and that wouldve allowed the application to progress. So, while I certainly 
see Mr Ms perspective around the wording of this question and the available answers, Im 
satisfied there was still the option to pick the country that he is a national of. And Ive not 
been presented with anything to suggest that the list of nations, which could be used to 
answer the question, was limited in any way.
 
With Mr Ms other issues around the online application, like attempting to input his annual 
income, its unclear exactly what happened there. Nonetheless, Im satisfied that 
Danske Bank offered suitable alternatives for completing the application given Mr M was 
unable to do it himself.
 
Danske Bank offered to take him through the application over the phone, it also offered to 
book him a branch appointment. So, while Ive no doubt the process was more time 
consuming than Mr M wouldve liked, Danske Bank took reasonable steps to assist him 
when it knew he was having trouble. Thats just what Id expect it to do in such 
circumstances, and it was then up to Mr M to decide whether to pursue those options.  
Aside from the account application itself, Mr M has highlighted that a staff member told him 
hed need the services of a solicitor to obtain letters of administration. Mr M is concerned  
knowing that one doesnt require a solicitor for such a task  that Danske Bank is potentially 
misadvising customers and causing them unnecessary expense. 
Danske Bank says its checked with its staff in question, but they have no recollection of the 
conversation. And I, of course, have no way of knowing exactly what was or wasnt said. So 
where possible, in situations like this, we try to decide what we feel is most to likely to have 
happened given all the information available to us.Thinking about the reason why Mr M wanted to open a new account; I can see how talk of 
letters of administration may have led to solicitors being mentioned. Broadly speaking, I dont 
generally think it unreasonable of staff to speak to customers about what might be worth 
considering to assist with certain events  like speaking to a solicitor or other legal 
representative when dealing with wills, probate or something similar. 
Here, though, regardless of exactly what was or wasnt said about solicitors, the fact is that 
Mr M clearly knew he didnt need one. From what Ive seen, he didnt appoint a solicitor, nor 
have I seen that he incurred any expense linked to one. It follows, then, that I can be 
reasonably satisfied Mr M hasnt suffered any detriment as a result of a conversation about 
solicitors with Danske Bank staff.
Moreover, while I know Mr M is concerned for others in similar situations, we only look at 
individual complaints to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each 
case. Theres nothing, from this one interaction, which suggests Danske Bank staff are 
routinely misadvising customers about requiring a solicitor in such circumstances. 
I know that Mr M will be disappointed by what Ive set out here. But, in closing, theres 
nothing to persuade me that Danske Bank has treated him unfairly. It took Mr Ms feedback 
about its application process on board, offered viable alternatives to help him open an 
account and Ive not seen that it caused him a financial loss. So, with all of that in mind, it 
follows that I dont uphold this complaint and I dont require Danske Bank to take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman