DRN-3225305
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way that Moorcroft Debt Recovery Limited (trading as Moorcroft 
Group) (Moorcroft) handled the collection of a debt.
What happened
Moorcroft is handling the collection of a debt on behalf of a business I will refer to as S. The 
debt relates to an outstanding overdraft balance on Mr Hs joint bank account.
After Moorcroft asked Mr H to repay the debt, he complained. Mr H questions the actions of 
S and Moorcrofts authority to pursue him for repayment.
Moorcroft doesnt think its done anything wrong and the investigator agreed. Mr H is very 
unhappy with the situation, so the complaint has come to me,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But that doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
From reading the file, it appears that Mr H is also unhappy with the way that hes been 
treated by S. I should explain that I can only consider Mr Hs complaint as it relates to 
Moorcrofts handling of the account it managed on behalf of S.
Mr H might dispute Moorcrofts right to ask him to repay the debt but I havent seen anything 
in Moorcrofts communication that was harassing or unreasonable in nature. I think it was fair 
for Moorcroft to believe that it was entitled to pursue the outstanding balance on Ss behalf. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs joint account with S allow it to appoint an agent to 
recover debts. And S had told Mr H that it had appointed Moorcroft to manage his account. 
Although Mr H has given this service evidence to show that his joint bank account came 
without any arranged overdraft facility, copy bank statements show the account was 
overdrawn. As Ive said above, I can only consider Mr Hs complaint as it relates to Moorcroft 
not S. If Mr H is unhappy about the overdraft on the joint account, he should raise this with 
S. 
Im satisfied that when Mr H complained, Moorcroft forwarded his complaint to S for further 
investigation. Moorcroft also said that it would suspend collection activity until S replied. 
Again  I think this was a fair and reasonable response to Mr Hs concerns.
Im sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint Mr H but overall, I dont consider that 
Moorcroft has done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. It follows that I dont uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman