DRN-4019457
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his 
claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a 
holiday product purchased in 1996.
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mr Ds, because it relates to a credit card 
in his sole name. But as the holiday product was in Mr and Mrs Ds name, Ill refer to Mr and 
Mrs D throughout much of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D purchased a timeshare membership from a third party (the Supplier) in May 
1996 using Mr Ds BoS credit card.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with what happened at the time the holiday products were sold 
to them. In April 2018, Mr D - using a professional representative (PR) - made claims for 
misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. There 
were several reasons given for the claims which can be summarised as follows:
Section 75: Misrepresentation
Mr and Mrs D say they were induced into the agreements by a series of misrepresentations 
by the supplier:
Mr and Mrs D were led to believe that the purchase would be an investment that 
would not lose value and would yield significant returns when sold in the future.
The timeshare could be exchanged for different resorts anywhere else in the world.
Mr and Mrs D were led to believe that their membership was exclusive and that they 
would be guaranteed cheap holidays, but they struggled to book holidays due to lack 
of availability and found that non-members could also book holidays.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Mr and Mrs D were pressured to purchase the membership. They say they were 
made to believe that they needed to make the purchase on the day due to the price 
offered being limited and paid the deposit on the day and signed up to a mortgage for 
the remainder of the payments. They say there werent given a cooling off period.
The sale of membership failed to comply with Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010.
Mr and Mrs D were given inaccurate information about the product and its utility.
The supplier failed to ensure compliance and due diligence.
The supplier failed in his duty of care towards Mr and Mrs D.
Mr and Mrs D were unaware that the timeshare was being sold in perpetuity and that 
their son would be liable for maintenance fees in the event of their deaths.
Mr and Mrs D were not told that annual maintenance fees would rise at the rate they 
have done.
In response, BoS said it hadnt been provided with sufficient evidence to support a claim of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Unhappy with BoS answer to the claims, Mr and Mrs D raised a complaint. As the matter 
was unable to be resolved, the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our adjudicator issued a view in February 2021. She concluded that:
The Section 75 claim for misrepresentation was made out of time under the the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
The Section 140A claim was made out of time under the LA.
Because of this, our adjudicator didnt think BoS was wrong to decline Mr Ds request for 
refunds under the CCA.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators view. 
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. The conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision are set out below:
Section 75: Misrepresentation
When a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier, they can, in certain 
circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under section 75 of the CCA. The 
claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the 
supplier provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a Section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued.
Only a court can decide whether Mr and Mrs Ds claim was made out of time under the LA. 
But the Acts still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding whether BoS 
response to the claim was reasonable.
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs D entered 
into the purchase agreement. I say this because they entered into the agreement based on 
the alleged misrepresentation by the Supplier  which they relied on. And as Mr D used his 
BoS credit card to help pay for the purchase, it was when he used his credit card that he 
suffered the loss.
It follows therefore that I think the cause of action accrued in 1996 when Mr and Mrs D made 
their purchase, and this means that Mr Ds claim for misrepresentation under Section 75 had to be made within six years of that date. As the claim wasnt made until 2018, I think its 
likely to have fallen outside of the time limit set out in the LA.
Section 75: Breach of contract
The initial letter of claim by Mr Ds representative said that facilities and amenities promised 
to Mr and Mrs D as part of their ownership were not provided as phase two remained a 
building site while members holidayed there. This meant that certain facilities had to be 
shared with phase one which cause inconvenience and overcrowding. The letter also said 
that Mr and Mrs D had discovered that the resort they could holiday at had been 
downgraded below a rating called Gold Crown due to the ongoing construction work.
On my reading of this complaint, this strikes me as an allegation of breach of contract. 
However, very little else appears to have been said and/or provided in relation to this 
allegation. So, as things currently stand, I dont know what Mr and Mrs Ds current position is 
under the relevant purchase agreement. And without knowing more about the specific rights 
Mr D thinks he and Mrs D lost, I cant say that theres been a breach of contract that BoS is 
likely to be jointly liable for.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
In this case, Mr D has said that he believes his credit card account was closed in 2005. 
Sections 140A to D of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 came into force on 6 April 2007, 
following the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Unless the credit agreement started on or after 
6 April 2007; or started before 6 April 2007 and was still running on or after 6 April 2008, 
Section 140A wont apply to it. Therefore, in this case, based on when Mr D has said his 
credit card account was closed, I do not think Section 140A applies.
The Limitation Act 1980
For the reasons set out above, I think BoS is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to Mr Ds 
Section 75 claim given its timing. And in light of what Ive said about his claim under Section 
140A, I dont think BoS has to do anything to put things right in this complaint.
Based on my conclusions I said in my provisional decision that I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint.
BoS agreed with my provisional decision and I didnt receive any further information from 
Mr D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think a claim under Section 75 of the CCA in regard 
to misrepresentation is likely to fall outside of the time limits set out in the LA and I do not find I have enough evidence to say that the complaint in regard to a breach oof contract 
should be upheld. In regard to a claim under section 140A of the CCA, given the timing of 
when Mr Ds credit card account was closed and when the relevant legislation came into 
force. I do not think it applies in this case. 
I provided my reasoning for the above conclusions in my provisional decision and this is set 
out above. As I didnt receive any new information in response to my provisional decision, 
my conclusions havent changed, and I think BoS is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to 
Mr Ds Section 75 claim given its timing. And in light of what Ive said about his claim under 
Section 140A, I dont think BoS has to do anything to put things right in this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman