DRN-3480996
The complaint
Mrs A complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of her legal expenses insurance 
claim.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mrs A had previously sought support from Amtrust to take legal action against her former 
employer and her claim had been declined. In 2019 Amtrust said that the claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success (which was a requirement for cover under the policy). 
Mrs A later began the employment tribunal process and initially represented herself. In 
January 2020 Mrs A instructed a firm of solicitors - who Ill refer to as L - to represent her. 
On 6 February 2020 L wrote to Amtrust to inform them that they believed Mrs As claim had 
the required prospects of success. 
Amtrust initially disputed this but in June 2020 following on from a supportive barristers 
opinion they accepted the claim had the required prospects and agreed to backdate cover to 
6 February 2020. 
There was then a dispute between Amtrust and L as to the hourly rate that ought to be used. 
Amtrust wouldnt pay more than £140 per hour. As a result of the dispute over the hourly 
rate, L didnt sign Amtrusts terms of appointment for non-panel solicitors. 
Mrs A complained, she had been self-funding L and wanted Amtrust to meet her costs. The 
matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators thought the complaint should 
be upheld. In broad summary she thought that Amtrust should compensate Mrs A with £500 
for having to attend a tribunal unrepresented. She also thought that they should consider the 
costs shed incurred using the county court guideline rates. 
Amtrust said they agreed in principle, but they wanted the right to ensure the costs they were 
paying were in line with the policy terms. They also pointed out that the policy had a limit of 
indemnity of £50,000. Mrs A said that she was being personally pursued by L for an 
outstanding amount and that she wanted an Ombudsman to make a decision. In July 2022 I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said:
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im issuing 
this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment.
Im aware that there have been some further developments whilst this complaint has been 
with our service. These include Mrs A being advised to accept a settlement offer. Amtrust 
provided Mrs A with their final response to her complaint on 4 May 2021. As such, I wont be 
considering anything after that date. Our service can only become involved once a business 
has had a chance to consider a complaint first. If Mrs A remains unhappy with the actions of 
Amtrust after that date, this is something shell need to take up with them in the first 
instance. 
I think Amtrust backdating cover to 6 February 2020 is fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. The policy requires that any claim has reasonable prospects of success. Its right 
that this is based on suitably qualified legal advice. And Ive not seen any evidence to 
support that, prior to this date, Mrs A had shared a supportive legal opinion on the prospects 
of her claim with Amtrust. 
Mrs As policy says that she will be covered for Professional Costs and Expenses. This is 
specifically defined in the policy as: Reasonable unrecovered fees, costs and 
disbursements properly and necessarily incurred by the Professional Adviser and any costs 
incurred by a third party, on the standard basis of any civil Proceedings, for which you may 
be made liable by order of a court or by agreement.
The policy also allows (when proceedings are to be issued or as a result of a conflict of 
interests arising) for a non-panel solicitor to be used. But it doesnt state a maximum hourly 
rate that will be used. I agree with our Investigator that its fair for Amtrust to have some 
input into the hourly rate they will agree. But Im not persuaded Amtrust has fairly exercised 
that discretion here. 
Mrs A has a reasonable expectation that her legal costs will be met by the policy for an 
accepted claim. It appears Amtrust too accept this to an extent as theyve agreed in principle 
to consider Mrs As costs based on the county court guideline amounts. I agree that this is a 
fair way to resolve this matter. But it is also fair that the policy doesnt automatically cover 
absolutely every legal cost that is billed. It covers professional costs and expenses in line 
with the definition above. So its fair that Amtrust are able to assess costs to ensure the 
policy terms are met. The policy also has a limit of indemnity of £50,000. That means I 
wouldnt expect Amtrust to meet costs in excess of that amount. 
Im aware that the policy doesnt usually offer payment until the conclusion of legal 
proceedings. But I dont think it would be fair to apply that term in the circumstances here. I 
dont think Mrs A acted unreasonably when instructing L to help protect her legal position. 
Had Amtrust promptly offered a fair hourly rate its most likely that terms would have been 
agreed with L and Mrs A wouldnt have had to self-fund in the meantime. In light of this, 
where Mrs A has already paid L (and is to be reimbursed by Amtrust under the policy) that 
8% (yearly) simple interest be added. This is to be calculated between the date of each 
payment from Mrs A to L until the date of reimbursement from Amtrust. 
I also think this failure by Amtrust would have caused Mrs A avoidable distress, 
inconvenience and uncertainty at what was already a difficult time. In light of this, Im minded 
to conclude that Amtrust should also pay £250 compensation for the impact of this. Im 
aware our Investigator originally awarded £500. But much of this was based on Mrs A being 
unrepresented at a tribunal hearing (something Im not persuaded is Amtrusts fault). And I 
think £250 is fair in the circumstances here... 
Mrs A responded to my provisional decision and asked our Investigator some questions 
about it which have been responded to. Amtrust responded to say they accepted my 
provisional decision. Now both parties have had an opportunity to respond, I can go ahead 
with my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further information or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Amtrust must consider and pay the professional costs and expenses (as defined in 
the policy) that Mrs A incurred with L in relation to her Employment Tribunal Dispute 
between 6 February 2020 and 4 May 2021 (inclusive).
In that consideration Amtrust must use the applicable published county court 
guideline rates that were in place at the time the work took place and for the grade of 
the fee earner who undertook the work. I understand that for Ls location, this will 
primarily be within the National Band Two area. (Im aware these rates have 
relatively recently changed, but the applicable rate in place at the time of the work 
should be used.)
Amtrust can assess the costs and Mrs A should provide all reasonable assistance to 
share information with Amtrust to enable their assessment to take place.
Where Ls costs have already been paid by Mrs A, Amtrust must add 8% simple 
interest (yearly) to any payments they make. This is to be calculated between the 
date Mrs A paid the relevant cost and the date of settlement. Any added interest 
should not be counted towards the limit of indemnity.
Amtrust may take into account any payments theyve already made (either to L or 
directly to Mrs A) when calculating the remaining limit of indemnity.
In the event that the limit of indemnity is reached (interest payments aside), Amtrust 
need not pay over that amount.
Amtrust must pay Mrs A £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. This 
payment should not count towards the limit of indemnity.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Amtrust Europe Limited to take the 
steps that are set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman