DRN-3273914
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain that Lloyds Bank PLC paid outstanding disputed service charges 
and major works arrears, and then added the payment to their mortgage account.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A have a buy to let mortgage with Lloyds on a leasehold property.  
On 4 June 2020, Lloyds received a letter from the freeholders solicitors explaining that they 
had been instructed to recover unpaid arrears due on the property for the amount of 
£8,470.29.  The letter explained that any action taken may affect Lloyds security over the 
property. 
Enclosed were copies of letters sent to Mr A and Mrs A on the same day which requested 
payment of £8,290.29 for outstanding service charge and major works arrears, and £180 for 
solicitors costs. The letters explained they were sent in accordance with the pre-action 
protocol for debt claims contained in the Civil Procedure rules. They requested payment 
within 30 days of the date of the letters, otherwise the solicitors may be instructed to 
commence proceedings against Mr A and Mrs A in County Court. They also explained that 
this action may affect the security over the property, so Lloyds as the mortgage provider had 
been advised of the debt. 
On 5 June 2020, Lloyds wrote to Mr A and Mrs A explaining they had received the above 
letter. It requested that Mr A and Mrs A pay the outstanding amount within 21 days or 
contact it immediately if the amount was in dispute. It explained that if Mr A and Mrs A didnt 
contact them by 25 June 2020 it would pay the outstanding debt to protect its security, and 
this would be added to the mortgage account. As Lloyds hadnt heard from Mr A and Mrs A it 
sent a follow up letter on 12 June 2020. It received no response to this letter, so paid the 
outstanding debt on 26 June 2020 and added this to the mortgage account.
Unhappy Mr A and Mrs A raised a complaint. They said they didnt receive these letters as 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, they had been required to stay at their other 
property in Dorset and were unable to return to their London residence where the letters 
were sent. They questioned why Lloyds hadnt tried to contact them by other means and 
explained there was a dispute over the works this debt related to. 
Lloyds responded saying it perceived there was a real threat to its security and as it had no 
response from Mr A and Mrs A, it took steps to protect its interest by paying the outstanding 
debt. It also explained that the charge would show as Ground Rent Payment on their 
statement as this was the general header it uses for these types of costs. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly. They 
explained the terms and conditions of the mortgage allowed Lloyds to make the payment for 
the outstanding amount. They didnt think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to make the 
payment in the circumstances as it felt there was a genuine threat to its security.
Mr A and Mrs A disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 January 2022 where I said:
Mr A and Mrs A have kindly provided evidence to support their complaint. Id like to be clear 
that my decision wont address every point or comment made by either Mr A and Mrs A or 
Lloyds. I mean no discourtesy by this, and I would like to reassure both parties that Ive 
carefully considered all the evidence provided. But my decision will only address what I see 
to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions for Mr A and Mrs As mortgage and Im satisfied 
these allow Lloyds to meet any obligations Mr A and Mrs A have with regards to their lease 
on their behalf  for example paying an outstanding service charge and major works 
payment  and charge an equivalent amount to the mortgage. However, this doesnt mean 
that it was fair for Lloyds to do so in the circumstances.
I would normally only expect Lloyds to pay the amounts asked for by the freeholders 
solicitors when forfeiture of the lease is a serious possibility. This is not when there is just a 
threat of forfeiture, but when the disputed matter has been to court or a relevant tribunal, 
currently the First-tier Tribunal (Property Chamber), to determine that there has been a 
breach of the lease. 
From the evidence provided there is nothing to suggest that either a court or a tribunal found 
Mr A and Mrs A breached the lease for their property, or that they had been found liable for 
the debt claimed by the freeholder. With this in mind, I dont think it was necessarily 
reasonable for Lloyds to pay the outstanding debt when it did, as at that stage there was 
only a threat of forfeiture. However, this doesnt mean that I think Lloyds should 
automatically refund the amount paid to Mr A and Mrs As mortgage account. I say this 
because rather than Lloyds paying a debt it shouldnt have, it has just paid the debt sooner 
than it should have.  
Taking into consideration that the freeholders solicitors had threatened forfeiture of the 
lease, I think it likely that if Lloyds hadnt paid the outstanding debt when it did matters would 
have gone to a court or tribunal. Therefore, its possible it would have been found that
Mr A and Mrs A had to pay this debt  including any additional court or tribunal costs. 
I understand that Mr A and Mrs A were in dispute about the works carried out on their 
property and this is why they withheld payment. Mr A and Mrs A claimed that works 
completed to the outside of the property, which the outstanding debt was related to, had 
caused damage to the inside of the property which Mr A and Mrs A felt they were not 
responsible for. They have provided me with many documents to evidence the dispute, so I 
dont doubt what they have told me. I also note that since the complaint has been with our 
service Mr A and Mrs A have pursued matters through their solicitor and have been refunded 
some of the costs they incurred relating to the damage inside the property.
Whilst Lloyds, in my opinion, made the payment earlier than it should have, I dont think this 
has prevented Mr A and Mrs A from pursuing their dispute with regards to the works 
completed and the damage this caused  and the fact they have already managed to make 
a claim evidences this. 
However, if Mr A and Mrs A are in dispute about the amount Lloyds paid to the freeholder, 
they need to show Lloyds that the money wasnt owed by them. To do this, Mr A and Mrs A 
could take the matter to a tribunal or other relevant authority. Its not our place to decide 
which is the most appropriate forum, this would be for Mr A and Mrs A to decide.If it is found that some, or all of, of the money paid by Lloyds to the freeholder wasnt due, 
but the freeholder isnt ordered to return it. Lloyds will need to refund the amount from the 
date the payment was made and refund any additional mortgage interest which had accrued 
on the amounts that were incorrectly paid. 
If Mr A and Mrs M receive a refund directly, or have already received a refund, for any 
amounts incorrectly paid, they can choose to pay this towards the mortgage to reduce the 
debt. If they choose not to, Lloyds would not be expected to reduce the debt added to the 
mortgage balance or return any additional interest accrued. This is because Mr A and Mrs A 
have made use of the money Lloyds have paid.
There is the possibility that the process to prove the amount Lloyds paid could cost 
Mr A and Mrs A more than it would have done for them to defend any action brought by the 
freeholder in the first place. If this is the case, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Mr A and Mrs A to be responsible for these costs. If they are able to provide evidence that 
they have incurred additional costs to prove their case, Lloyds would need to refund these as 
well, minus any costs that would have been incurred if the case had gone to court or a 
tribunal in the first place. 
I also think it would have been distressing for Mr A and Mrs A to find out the payment had 
been made, especially when taking into consideration the length of time they had been in 
dispute about the works carried out on the property  from approximately late 2018. To 
recognise this, I think Lloyds should pay Mr A and Mrs A £200 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
I note that Mr A and Mrs A have also raised concerns with regards to how the payment 
Lloyds made for the outstanding debt is recorded on their statement. Lloyds has explained 
that the charge is recorded as Ground Rent Payment as this is a restriction of its system. I 
understand this must be frustrating for Mr A and Mrs A but I dont think Lloyds have done 
anything wrong by recording it this way  this is because it is a limitation of their system 
which Im unable to ask them to change. However, Lloyds have confirmed they are aware 
the amount isnt for ground rent, so Im satisfied its being recorded correctly.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence they wanted to raise 
by 7 February 2022. 
Mr A and Mrs A responded with some additional comments. They wanted to emphasise that 
they received no communication from Lloyds even though Mr A has a private bank manager 
with his email and phone number. They also explained they had between £22,000 - £29,000 
in a Lloyds account at the time which was sufficient to cover what was owed, have two other 
buy to let mortgage accounts with Lloyds and are long standing customers. They also 
disagree there was a threat to Lloyds security over the matter. 
Mr and Mrs A say there was no grounds to forfeit the lease as they had informed the 
freeholder that they were in dispute over faulty repairs  and refusing to pay was a last resort 
as they were unable to reach an agreement with the freeholder. They say they received a 
sum of £2040 that paid to repair their wall twice, but it cost them £2848.20 in legal fees 
which they would not have incurred if Lloyds hadnt paid the outstanding debt  and felt 
these should be refunded by Lloyds.
They also felt that Lloyds should refund any additional interest they incurred since it paid the 
outstanding debt and added this to their mortgage. Mr A and Mrs A disagreed that £200 
compensation fairly reflected the time spent, hurt and distress this situation had caused. 
They also still had concerns over the disputed amount being recorded as ground rent, as this 
could allow for the freeholder to take back the lease. Lloyds responded accepting my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in the circumstances I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that 
which I set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
In my provisional decision I set out that I didnt necessarily think it was reasonable for Lloyds 
to pay the outstanding debt when it did, as at the stage it was contacted by Mr A and Mrs As 
freeholder, there was only a threat of forfeiture of the lease. But I explained that taking into 
consideration that the freeholders solicitors had threatened forfeiture of the lease, I thought 
it likely that if Lloyds hadnt paid the outstanding debt when it did, matters would have gone 
to a court or tribunal. Therefore, this meant it possibly could have been found that 
Mr A and Mrs A had to pay the debt  including any additional court or tribunal costs. 
With this in mind, I concluded that rather than Lloyds paying a debt it shouldnt have, it had 
just paid a debt sooner than it should have. I understand Mr A and Mrs A have said they had 
the funds to pay the outstanding debt and were long standing customers, but I dont think 
this is relevant to whether Lloyds should have paid the debt. Mr A and Mrs A had an ongoing 
dispute with the freeholder about the damage to the inside of their property and had received 
a potential threat to the lease in June 2020, saying that if the outstanding debt wasnt paid in 
30 days further action would be taken. Taking into considering the ongoing dispute that 
Mr A and Mrs A had with the freeholder, and that this wasnt resolved until around 
January 2021  I still think it likely that the issue would have gone to a court or tribunal.
If Mr A and Mrs A are in dispute about the amount Lloyds paid to the freeholder, they need 
to show Lloyds that the money wasnt owed by them. I said this could be done by 
Mr A and Mrs A taking the matter to a tribunal or other relevant authority. If it was found that 
some, or all, of the money paid by Lloyds to the freeholder wasnt due, but the freeholder 
isnt ordered to return it. Lloyds would need to refund this amount from the date the payment 
was made and refund any additional mortgage interest which has accrued on the amounts 
that were incorrectly paid. 
I appreciate Mr A and Mrs A say the interest on the total amount should be refunded since 
Lloyds paid the debt, but in this instance, I dont agree it should be. The solicitors letter sent 
to Mr A and Mrs A on 4 June 2020 states that if the outstanding debt isnt paid within 
30 days of the date of that letter further action would be taken. It explains that this action will 
increase the amount Mr A and Mrs A would be required to pay, as in addition to the current 
balance, court fees, solicitors costs and additional interest will be claimed. 
As Mr A and Mrs A have indicated they were withholding payment until the dispute about the 
damage to the inside of the property was resolved, and that I think it likely this matter would 
have gone to a court or tribunal. If Lloyds hadnt paid the debt when it did, its likely 
Mr A and Mrs A would have incurred additional costs in any instance. Therefore, I think its 
fair Lloyds only refund the interest on any amount which is established not to be due  as 
this is interest that Mr A and Mrs A never would have accrued. 
I understand Mr A and Mrs A say the fact the freeholder has already repaid amounts they 
received from Lloyds, would provide proof that the amounts were not properly due, but I 
disagree.The amounts Mr A and Mrs A have set out they have received from the freeholder are in 
relation to the claim they brought about the works they had to complete to the inside of their 
property  work they say wouldnt have been necessary if the works to the outside of the 
property had been completed correctly. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the £2040 
refund Mr A and Mrs A received relates to the works to the outside of the property, or to the 
amount the freeholder requested from Lloyds, so I dont think Lloyds should refund this from 
the amount they added to Mr A and Mrs As mortgage. 
With regards to the £2848.20 of legal fees Mr A and Mrs A say they incurred pursuing the 
matter of the damage done to the inside of their property. Whilst I understand 
Mr A and Mrs A say they incurred these because of Lloyds paying the outstanding debt, I 
dont think this is the case. These fees dont relate to the outstanding debt Lloyds paid to the 
freeholder but are for the action Mr A and Mrs A took with regards to the damage they say 
the freeholder caused whilst completing works to the outside of their property  a dispute 
which was ongoing for some time after Lloyds paid the amount to the freeholder.
I understand that Mr A and Mrs A feel these costs wouldnt have been incurred if Lloyds 
hadnt paid the outstanding debt. However, there is no evidence to suggest they wouldnt 
have needed to take the action they did to recover the costs they incurred repairing their 
internal wall, so I cant reasonably hold Lloyds accountable for these and wont be asking it 
to refund them. 
To clarify, the additional costs I outlined in my provisional decision that Lloyds should refund 
relate only to Mr A and Mrs A proving the debt Lloyds paid was incorrect through either a 
tribunal or other relevant authority. As explained, there is a possibility that this process could 
cost Mr A and Mrs A more than it would have to defend any action brought against them by 
the freeholder in the first place. So, I think its fair that any additional cost in relation to this 
be covered by Lloyds.
I appreciate Mr A and Mrs A disagree that £200 is a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them, but I think this fairly reflects the time Mr A and Mrs A spent 
on this matter and the distress they would have experienced finding out Lloyds had made 
the payment without their knowledge. I understand Mr A and Mrs A already had a dispute 
with the freeholder which they had spent time trying to resolve, and that this would have 
likely caused them distress and inconvenience  but this isnt something I can hold Lloyds 
responsible for when considering an award of compensation, I can only take into account the 
impact Lloyds actions had. 
As for Lloyds recording the added debt as ground rent on its system, I understand the 
reasons why Mr A and Mrs A are concerned about this. As explained, this is a limitation of 
Lloyds systems and they have confirmed they are aware the amount isnt for ground rent. It 
also isnt what was requested of it by the freeholders solicitors, which was major 
works/service charges. I therefore, wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further here as its 
not the place of this service to instruct Lloyds to change its systems.
 My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Should Mr A and Mrs A provide proof from a 
relevant authority that any amounts paid by Lloyds werent due, and provided the relevant 
authority doesnt order the freeholder to refund them directly, I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
- Refund the mortgage account any amount a relevant authority has determined 
shouldnt have been due from the date these were paid.
- Refund any mortgage interest accrued on these amounts.
- Pay any additional costs Mr A and Mrs A paid in proving the amount Lloyds paid 
wasnt due, which are in addition to the costs they would have incurred defending 
any action brought by the freeholder. 
Separately from the above direction and with no pre-conditions, Lloyds Bank PLC should 
pay Mr A and Mrs A £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman