DRN-3259433
The complaint
Mrs T complains that ReAssure Limited has failed to send her an annual statement for her 
pension.
What happened
Mrs T has a pension policy with ReAssure (policy number **07P).  ReAssure produce annual 
statements each year. It told Mrs T it usually issues these statements after her birthday and 
she should receive the statements in November.
Mrs T says shes had to complain about various service issues with ReAssure in the past. 
So, for example she had to complain when she hadnt received annual statements in 2017 
and 2018. When she did receive these statements she had to complain because the 
information on one of the statements was incorrect. She says ReAssure didnt resolve these 
issues until May 2020. 
When Mrs T hadnt received her annual statement for 2019/20, she had to contact ReAssure 
again. 
On 10 July 2020, during a telephone call with ReAssure, Mrs T told it that although shed 
received the statement for 2018/19 she still hadnt received the statement for 2019/2020. On 
19 August 2020 ReAssure wrote to her to explain that the annual statement was issued after 
her birthday each year and this meant her 2019/20 statement should be with her by the end 
of November 2020. Subsequently on 4 December 2020, it wrote to her again to explain that 
a task had been raised to issue the statement and this would be completed by 5 January 
2021 meaning you will receive your statement by mid-January. Mrs T didnt receive the 
statement.
Mrs T complained to ReAssure in April 2021. ReAssure didnt acknowledge her complaint or 
respond to it, so she referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He said that the Occupational and Personal 
Pension Scheme (Disclosure of Information) Regulations 2013 provided that certain 
information had to be provided to clients within 12 months of each policy anniversary. 
Although he didnt know what that date was, ReAssure had told Mrs T that it would issue the 
statement by the end of November 2020 and it generally issued statements around that time 
of year. 
Our investigator said there was no evidence that ReAssure had issued the statement and 
Mrs T had not received it. He thought that ReAssure should establish what was preventing 
Mrs Ts statements from being issued on time and issue the statement for 2019/20. He also 
considered that ReAssure should pay Mrs T £100 for the distress and inconvenience shed 
experienced as a result of what happened.
ReAssure said it agreed with what our investigator had said and was willing to pay Mrs T 
£100 by way of compensation. 
Mrs T didnt agree. She said that ReAssure had taken over five months to respond to what 
our investigator had said and she still hadnt received the statement for 2019/20 despite 
previous assurances in August 2020 and December 2020 that the statement would be 
issued. She said she wanted a full explanation from ReAssure as to why it had failed to 
issue the statement. Mrs T confirmed she had received the statement for 2020/21 in 
February 2022.
Because Mrs T didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I looked into the 
complaint and could see that the crux of the matter hadnt been resolved despite what our 
investigator had said. So, I asked the investigator to write to both parties to say that I was 
minded to change the redress to include an additional £100 for distress and inconvenience if 
ReAssure didnt send the statement within 30 days of my decision requiring it to do so. 
ReAssure responded to say that it had sent the statement in August  but would do so 
again. Mrs T has confirmed that she received the statement on 19 September 2022. 
Mrs T also asked me to add something to the decision to prevent this from happening again 
but the investigator explained that our service couldnt make a decision or implement 
anything for future events that may or may not happen.
So, I now have to make my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out at the outset that although Mrs T has referred to several historical issues 
about the service provided by ReAssure, in this decision Im only dealing with the complaint 
shes raised about receipt of her annual statement for 2019/20. Mrs T has confirmed this is 
the complaint issue shes referred to our service.
Mrs T didnt receive the statement for 2019/20 until September 2022. As our investigator 
said, ReAssure has certain legal and regulatory obligations to provide information to Mrs T 
within certain timeframes. And, although its not clear when Mrs T had received the 2018/19 
statement, I can see that she usually received her statements in January each year  which 
was shortly after her birthday. So I wouldve expected her to receive the 2019/20 statement 
in or around January 2021. Thats also in line with what ReAssure told Mrs T in December 
2020.
ReAssure has now issued the statement for 2020/21, but it hasnt explained why it didnt 
follow through on the assurance, given in the letter dated 4 December 2020, that Mrs T 
would receive the 2019/20 statement by mid-January 2021. 
Although I know Mrs T has asked for explanations, I havent been able to get an explanation 
from ReAssure and although I can require it to take action to resolve the complaint, I cannot 
force it to provide explanations for how it has operated its business. 
Part of the reason why I havent received any explanation from ReAssure is because it 
hasnt been as responsive to Mrs Ts complaint, or to our service, as it should have been. 
She shouldnt have had to complain to it, and the complaint shouldnt have reached our 
service, as this was a relatively simple matter to put right. As our investigator said, ReAssure 
has a legal and regulatory obligation to issue annual statements in a timely manner and it 
has failed to do that in this case  not just when the matter was first raised by Mrs T, or when 
she referred it to our service. Infact, it didnt issue the annual statement for 2019/20 to Mrs T until very recently. She says she received the missing statement, without any apology or 
other explanation, on 19 September 2022. 
ReAssure hasnt treated Mrs T in the way that we wouldve expected. Its not our role to fine 
or punish a business when it gets things wrong. But, when considering the action that should 
be taken to resolve this complaint we can take into account the distress and inconvenience 
thats been caused to Mrs T by ReAssures conduct.
ReAssure has now issued the statement to Mrs T, so the crux of the complaint has now 
been resolved  albeit belatedly. I can understand how frustrating this has been for Mrs T. 
Shes had to contact ReAssure several times to try to get the missing statement. Its only 
been provided to her on 19 September 2022  which is almost two years after the date when 
it shouldve been sent to her. Our investigator thought ReAssure should pay her £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
Having considered everything, and given that Mrs T has now received the missing 
statement, I think £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about ReAssure Limited. I now require 
it to:
Pay Mrs T £100 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes 
been caused as a result of what happened here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman