DRN-3804696
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited condemned her boiler. She says it only 
needed replacing because it was damaged intentionally by British Gass engineer.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Ms Cs boiler is covered by a HomeCare plan 
underwritten by British Gas. During early 2022 an engineer visited several times to address 
a leak. He fitted some new parts, but ultimately advised Ms C that her boiler required 
replacing.
Ms C says British Gass engineer intentionally damaged the electrics of the boiler, which is 
why it required replacement. British Gas investigated the complaint. It accepted that the 
engineer took too long, over too many visits, before advising the boiler required replacement. 
It initially offered £50 compensation for the poor service, and later increased this amount to 
£150. But it said the correct process had been followed in terms of attempting repair before 
advising the boiler required replacement. And it didnt accept that its engineer had damaged 
Ms Cs boiler.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said the 
engineers notes persuaded her that the boiler required replacing and she hadnt seen any 
evidence to support Ms Cs concern that the engineer damaged the boiler intentionally. She 
agreed the level of service Ms C received could have been better. But she felt the £150 paid 
by British Gas was enough to fairly compensate her for the impact of the poor service.
Ms C didnt accept our investigators opinion. As no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Ms Cs policy covers her for, among other things, repairs to her boiler and controls. It also 
covers replacement of the boiler if its unable to be repaired and is under 10 years old 
(subject to other conditions). But Ms Cs boiler was over that age.
Ms C disputes that her boiler required replacement. But British Gas has supplied a record of 
all visits to Ms Cs property since 2015 which shows she was advised to get a new boiler on 
multiple occasions prior to 2022. An insurance renewal explained this was because the 
boiler manufacturer was no longer making parts, which meant it was becoming more and 
more likely that an issue would result in the boiler not being repairable. The final entry on the 
job record in 2022 shows the engineer concluded that a new boiler was now required.
British Gas has told our service the reason a new boiler was required was because of the 
manifold. Ms C had a third party replace her boiler, but she kept the manifold back. She says 
her engineer advised there was no problem with the manifold. British Gas sent out a second 
engineer when investigating Ms Cs complaint. This engineer said there were slight signs of 
corrosion to the manifold, near where the seal would go. But it was impossible to tell whether 
this would have leaked without it being in place. And as the boiler had already been 
replaced, there was no way to test this.
Ive considered the photos of the manifold provided by British Gas. Im unable to see any 
obvious signs of corrosion. But I am not a heating engineer. British Gas has provided 
comments from two qualified engineers which support that there was some corrosion and 
that the boiler required replacement. While Ms C says her engineer told her the manifold 
was fine, she hasnt provided anything to support this, such as a report or comments from 
her engineer. So, taking into account the age of the boiler, the number of times a new boiler 
was recommended in the years leading up to 2022, and in the absence of any expert 
evidence to the contrary, Im persuaded on balance that the boiler was correctly condemned. 
In addition to the above, even if it could be shown that Ms Cs boiler shouldnt have been 
condemned at the point it was, given the age of the boiler and the lack of parts, its likely at 
some point in the not-too-distant future it wouldnt have been repairable and would have 
needed replacing. And Ms C would always have needed to pay to replace her boiler at this 
stage. So, even if Ms C could show British Gas was wrong to condemn her boiler when it did 
overall the end point is the same, its just been brought further forward. But ultimately, Im 
not persuaded British Gas was wrong to condemn the boiler, based on the evidence I have 
seen.
Ive also seen no evidence to support Ms Cs assertion that it was the British Gas engineer 
who damaged her boiler. I can see that British Gas attempted to investigate this, but by the 
time it sent a second engineer out, Ms C had already replaced her boiler. I can understand 
why Ms C replaced her boiler, given the time of year and the fact her boiler was no longer 
working. But British Gas were unable to inspect the alleged intentional damage and says the 
photos Ms C has provided were taken after her engineer had removed the boiler casing. So, 
in these circumstances Im not persuaded, even on the balance of probabilities, that the 
electrical damage was most likely caused by British Gass engineer  either intentionally or 
otherwise. 
British Gas has accepted that it ought to have condemned the boiler sooner than it did, and 
that this resulted in too many visits taking place before this happened. It has offered £150 
compensation for the impact of its service failings here. Taking everything into account, I 
think £150 is sufficient to fairly compensate Ms C for this.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms C. But it follows that Ill not be making any further direction against 
British Gas.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman