DRN-2767792
The complaint
Mrs M complained about how Aviva handled her claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M s car was damaged in a car accident which wasnt her fault. Aviva deemed her car 
uneconomical to repair and settled her claim by paying its market value. 
But Mrs M was unhappy that Aviva recorded the incident as a fault claim against her, that 
she had to pay a £100.00 policy excess and that her premiums went up. She said that Aviva 
delayed settling her claim which meant that it took longer for her GAP insurance to pay her 
and that meant that it took longer for her to get another car. She said this caused pressure 
and stress for her, her sister and her daughter. She wanted Aviva to apologise, change their 
records, refund the policy excess, and pay the increase in her premium. Aviva didnt agree 
and so Mrs M complained to us. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. They didnt 
think thered been any failings on Avivas part. Mrs M didnt agree and so Ive been asked to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms accident wasnt her fault, and she is unhappy that Aviva recorded it as fault. But 
Aviva accept that the accident wasnt Mrs Ms fault. It was caused by the other driver, and 
the police confirmed this. But insurers still record a claim as fault if they settle the claim but 
cant then recover their outlays from the responsible driver or their insurer. Here Aviva hadnt 
been able to recover their outlays, because the responsible driver was uninsured. So I dont 
think it was wrong of them to record the matter as they did, and it doesnt mean that Aviva 
think that Mrs M was to blame. Its also common for insurers to treat an incident itself, 
regardless of whose fault it is, as a risk factor affecting the premium. Insurers are entitled to 
consider matters that might affect the risk, and to take them into account in setting or 
changing the premium they charge. This is a commercial decision for insurers, and not one 
in which we get involved.  
The policy excess is what a person agrees to pay towards any claim, again regardless of 
whose fault it is. Mrs Ms policy confirms that. Its up to the consumer to try to recover any 
excess from the driver responsible or their insurer. An insurer might help with that, but isnt 
obliged to, and here there was no third-party insurer to recover from. So I dont think that 
Aviva have done anything wrong here.
Aviva told Mrs M on about 13 October that they would settle her claim by paying her cars 
value. But because there was outstanding finance on the car, Aviva had to pay the 
settlement to the finance company. So they first needed a settlement figure from the finance 
company, and they asked Mrs M to arrange that. I can see that Mrs M gave Aviva the 
finance settlement figure on about 27 October, together with permission for Aviva to contact 
the finance company direct if necessary. The finance companys settlement figure was valid 
until 10 November. 
When Aviva hadnt paid out within about a week, Mrs M followed up on it. It seems that 
Aviva realised that they couldnt then pay the settlement within the finance companys 10 
November timescale, and they had to ask the finance company for an updated settlement 
figure. This meant that it took longer before Aviva could pay the settlement. But they did then 
pay the settlement to the finance company on about 16 November, and they also reimbursed 
Mrs M for the increase in the finance company settlement amount. 
Mrs M said that Aviva had delayed, and that this delayed her GAP insurer paying out to her, 
which meant it took longer for her to get a new car. In turn this caused her transport 
difficulties, and caused more stress for her and her daughter and sister. 
I realise this isnt as fast as Mrs M would have liked, and I can see this would have been 
very frustrating for her. Shed been in an accident through no fault of her own, and this 
happened at a particularly difficult time of illness in her family. 
But nevertheless, I think that overall Aviva did pay Mrs Ms settlement amount within a not 
unreasonable time of them getting the information they needed, given that they were 
affected by the finance companys timescales. They also ensured that Mrs M wasnt out of 
pocket because of the change in the finance companys settlement figure, and I think that 
was reasonable. And so in all the circumstances I dont think that Aviva did anything 
wrong.This means that I wont be asking them to do anything else.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
