DRN-2887704
The complaint
Miss E complains about the way Studio Retail Limited dealt with the return of items she had 
bought through an associated website.  
What happened
Miss E has a running credit account with Studio Retail, which enables her to buy items from 
linked websites and pay using her account. Studio Retail sets a credit limit, and Miss E is 
required to make minimum monthly payments of a proportion of her credit balance.
In June 2020 Miss E bought some items using her Studio Retail account. They arrived some 
four weeks later. Miss E decided that she wanted to return them. It appears she told Studio 
Retail they were faulty, although when she contacted this service she said that, because of 
the time it took for them to be delivered, she had already bought alternatives.
Initially, Studio Retail said it would not accept the return of the items, because it was already 
more than 28 days since the order had been placed. It later agreed however that it would 
accept their return, although there were some difficulties in arranging this. There was then a 
delay in processing the refund to Miss Es account; that was not done until the middle of 
November 2020.
Even then, the refunds were not backdated  with the result that Miss Es account continued 
to accrue interest on them at an annual rate of nearly 50%. Interest was recalculated and 
credited to the account in December 2020. By then, however, Miss E had cancelled her 
direct debit to make payments to the account. Studio Retail added a missed payment fee of 
£12 (which it later refunded) and noted the missed payment fee on her credit file. It also 
made a payment of £10 in recognition of the inconvenience to which Miss E had been put.
Miss E referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She recommended that Studio Retail pay Miss E a further £50 in recognition of 
the inconvenience to which she had been put and that it remove the missed payment from 
her credit file.
Studio Retail agreed to pay Miss E a further £50 but not to remove the credit marker. It said 
that Miss E had refused to pay anything, even though the balance on her account was in 
part the result of other purchases she had made. It asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. 
I did that and issued a provisional decision. Whatever the reason for Miss E returning the 
items, I thought that, having agreed to a refund, Studio Retail should have processed it more 
quickly than it had done. I agreed with the investigator that a payment of a further £50 was 
appropriate in recognition of that. 
I did not agree however that Studio Retail should remove the marker from Miss Es credit 
file. She had cancelled the direct debit instruction on the account, but most of the balance 
was accounted for by other items she had bought, not by those she had returned. I therefore 
recommended that Studio Retail resolve Miss Es complaint by paying her a further £50.
Studio Retail accepted my provisional findings. Miss E did not say whether she did or not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received no further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional decision, 
I see no reason to change my view about how this complaint should be resolved. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Miss Es complaint, Studio Retail Limited should pay her 
a further £50.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman