DRN-3052716
The complaint
Miss H complains Unum Ltd unfairly declined her income protection claim, when she was 
unwell with depression and anxiety. 
What happened
Miss H works as a relationship manager in financial services, and is a beneficiary of her 
employers income protection scheme, provided by Unum. The policy is designed to pay a 
benefit after a deferred period of 26 weeks, in the event an insured member is unable to 
work in their insured occupation, due to illness or injury.
The policy defines incapacity as follows. 
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
Unable by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and are 
Not performing any other occupation.
Miss H became absent from work in October 2019. She had appointments with a GP 
throughout the deferred period, and was continually signed off work. 
The GP records show, in October 2019, Miss H had reported feeling stressed, anxious and 
depressed. And shed said stress had built up due to exams, the health of a family member, 
and her work. 
Miss Hs GP diagnosed mixed anxiety and depressive disorder (new episode) and 
prescribed sertraline. When this was reviewed after around a month, in early November, 
Miss H reported trouble sleeping, so the GP changed the medication to mirtazapine. The GP 
also noted Miss H had an exam pending, and her family member was still unwell. And she 
had started having counselling she had arranged. 
At the next appointments during November and December 2019, the GP noted Miss H had 
said the medication had improved her sleep but not her mood. And at the end of December, 
the GP noted Miss H had said she was struggling to cope with daily activities and had 
struggled at work. Also she was concerned about an upcoming exam. And the GP increased 
the mirtazapine dosage. 
The GP continued to prescribe the same medication to Miss H during January and February 
2020. And at an appointment in mid-February, the GP noted Miss Hs mood was the same, 
but she was sleeping better. And the notes stated Examination: walked in, looks well, well 
kempt, good EC [eye contact] and insight, normal speech, no thought disorder. 
At the end of February 2020, the GP continued to prescribe mirtazapine, but said if there 
was still no improvement in Miss Hs mood at the next review, she may be switched back to 
the previous medication  sertraline. And at this point the GP noted Miss H was off work for 
stress and stated Diagnosis: Major: Depressive disorder (new episode). 
A month later toward the end of March, the GP notes say responded well to mirtazapine 
30mg ON for sleep due to stress at work. Still off work as situation not resolved and planning 
to find new work. And mirtazapine continued to be prescribed for another month at the 
same dosage. The GP also stated the diagnosis to be work related stress problem. 
Miss H submitted an incapacity claim to Unum via her employer in January 2020. She said 
she had been suffering with depression and anxiety. And said this affected her ability to do 
her job due to being unable to focus, unable to talk to customers over phone, and feeling 
panicky and upset. And she said she was worried she could make a mistake at work and get 
into trouble.
The claim form asked Miss H to explain how her day to day living was affected, and what 
she was no longer able to do due to illness. Miss H said she was unable to leave the house 
most days, only doing so to see the GP or go to the supermarket. She said she struggled to 
talk to people or make eye contact, and could have a panic attack at any time or burst into 
tears. 
Miss H also referenced the medication she was taking made her feel drowsy, and it was 
difficult to wake up early. She said she tried to exercise and go to the gym as this helps her 
anxiety. But said she mostly stays in bed as she has no motivation. 
Unum assessed the claim at the end of the deferred period in April 2020, and declined it as it 
said Miss H didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity. It said it had reviewed Miss Hs 
medical records, but had found no evidence of a significant mental health condition. And it 
said it thought the reports showed Miss Hs low mood was related to workplace and personal 
issues. 
Miss H complained to Unum and said she wanted to appeal its decision. Unum said it hadnt 
received any new evidence, but it had reviewed the claim again, and still thought it had been 
right to decline it. It said Miss Hs claim form stated her symptoms were associated with 
workplace stressors, and that adaptations might have helped with this. It also said it noted a 
previous history of workplace stress in 2018 within the GP records. And it said as Miss H 
was going to the gym and studying for exams, it thought she was not severely limited by her 
symptoms. 
Unhappy with Unums response, Miss H brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said he thought Unum had acted 
unfairly and should pay Miss Hs claim.
Miss H didnt make any further comments on the investigators view. However Unum 
disagreed. In summary it said it still thought Miss Hs absence largely related to personal 
stressors and work-related issues. 
Unum asked for a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
For Miss H to make a successful claim against the policy, she would need to demonstrate 
that she was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her occupation, 
throughout the deferred period. And in this case, that period is from her date of first absence 
from work in October 2019 until the end of the 26 week deferred period in April 2020. Having reviewed the available medical evidence, I wasnt persuaded Miss H has evidenced she was 
incapacitated throughout the deferred period. And I said this for the following reasons. 
Although Miss H was continually signed off work by her GP throughout the deferred 
period, I wasnt persuaded this sufficiently demonstrates she was incapacitated. Its 
evident that the majority of commentary by the GP about symptoms, relates to Miss 
Hs self-reporting. And there is little medical evidence about how these symptoms 
would have prevented Miss H from carrying out the material and substantial duties of 
her role as a relationship manager. 
Id seen no evidence that the GP referred Miss H to any specialist in relation to her 
anxiety or depression, as may be expected in a case with severe symptoms. So I 
didnt think this supported that Miss H was suffering with mental health symptoms so 
severe, she was unable to work.
In his view, the investigator had said he thought Miss H had been diagnosed with a 
major depressive disorder. However, having reviewed the medical evidence, I said I 
didnt think that was the case. In February 2020, the GP stated Diagnosis: Major: 
Depressive disorder (new episode). And its my understanding that this reference is 
to the depressive disorder being the major diagnosis at the time; I wasnt convinced 
the GP was referring to the depressive disorder as being major in nature. 
When Miss H completed her claim form in January 2020, she had noted multiple 
symptoms. However it seems these symptoms may have improved not long after, as 
the GP noted in mid-February 2020 Examination: walked in, looks well, well kempt, 
good EC [eye contact] and insight, normal speech, no thought disorder. 
Miss H was prescribed medication for her symptoms, and this was changed initially 
and later increased at the end of December 2019. But for the remainder of the 
deferred period, the GP continued to prescribe the same medication at the same 
dosage. Although the GP made comments in February 2020 about changing the 
medication if Miss Hs mood had not improved, the medication had not been changed 
by the end of the deferred period. So I was persuaded this demonstrates Miss Hs 
symptoms were under control to a degree.
Unum said it thought many of Miss Hs symptoms were associated with workplace 
and other stressors. I didnt think this was unreasonable, as within the GP records 
there are various mentions of workplace stress as well as difficulties with the health 
of one of Miss Hs family members, and concern about exams. And in March 2020, 
the GP had stated Still off work as situation not resolved and planning to find new 
work.. So I thought it fair to conclude that some of Miss Hs stress was most likely 
caused by these factors, rather than an illness. Workplace stress is not considered 
an illness, and although the symptoms can be debilitating and can often lead to more 
serious mental health problems, I wasnt satisfied that was the case here. And so, 
because I thought Miss Hs symptoms were largely related to, or triggered by, her 
problems at work, I said there was cover under the policy for these circumstances. 
Unum said it thought Miss Hs use of the gym and studying for exams showed she wasnt 
severely limited by her symptoms. However, Miss H had consistently said that exercising 
helped alleviate her symptoms of anxiety. And based on her type of job and the likely level of 
activity and exertion required, I didnt think her exercise demonstrated she was able to 
perform the material and substantial duties of her job role. And, I said Id not seen evidence 
of when the exams were, or that Miss H was actively studying. So I wasnt persuaded that 
these points evidenced Miss H wasnt incapacitated by her symptoms. However, other evidence Id seen persuaded me that Miss H didnt meet the policy definition 
of incapacity throughout the deferred period. And I said I didnt think Unum acted unfairly in 
declining her claim. 
The response to my provisional decision 
Unum accepted my provisional decision and Miss H didnt respond with any comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised anything further, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Unum Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman