DRN-3080608
The complaint
Mr S complains that he wasnt able to access his account with Revolut Ltd after travelling.
He wanted our service to look at the customer service options Revolut provides, and
consider the security of his account.
 
What happened
Mr S is a frequent traveller, and he told us he uses the Revolut app to move money between
currencies, and provide access to his money while hes away from home.
Mr S said he first registered the Revolut app with a number from his country of residence. He
then spent some time in Turkey, and was able to change the number held on the Revolut
app, and use his app with a Turkish sim card in his phone. Mr S then returned to his country
of residence, and switched back to a sim from there. He said he used the card from time to
time. Then in December 2019 he transferred over £2,000 into his sterling account with
Revolut.
In January 2020 he went to a country in Asia for seven weeks. He said he wasnt able to
change his number to a local number there, but he was still able to use his Revolut account
and withdraw money.
In mid-February he returned to his country of residence, and went back to using a local sim
card. But he couldnt access his Revolut account. Mr S said that the app was asking for his
phone number but seemed unable to accept this number and always returned a message
"Something went wrong......".
Mr S said Revolut suggested hed forgotten his password, and it took several emails to
convince it otherwise. Revolut suggested he could open another account, but it wouldnt
reassure him that the money in the old account wouldnt be lost, because it said he couldnt
tell it the phone number of that account.
Mr S said he offered to send a photo of himself, holding his passport, and his Revolut bank
card, but it still wouldnt agree he could access his old account. So he opened a new
account, and fortunately the money was moved across.
Mr S said he wanted to know why there was no customer service phone number to contact
Revolut, outside of the app. And he also wanted to know why other forms of proof of ID
werent acceptable. He wanted to know how hed been able to use the account for so long, if
the phone number in Revoluts data bank was different to the phone number he had.
Mr S said that Revoluts customer service and security provisions werent good enough, and
needed to be significantly upgraded. And he wanted Revolut to pay him compensation. He
said Revolut had only offered him eight months of free premium service, and he didnt think
that was enough to make up for what had gone wrong.
Revolut said its users dont need to change the phone number on the app whenever they
travel. Its app targets people who travel, and its built to work everywhere without the need to
change anything. So Revolut said it was Mr Ss decision to change the number. And Revolut
said that it isnt possible to use a number from every country for the app, due to local
regulations which restrict its operations in some countries. Thats why Mr S couldnt add a
number from the country he visited in Asia.
When Mr S first asked Revolut what had gone wrong, and why his app wouldnt accept a
number from his country of residence, Revolut said that was a technical issue. But when
our service asked, Revolut offered a different explanation.
Revolut said that when Mr S was trying to log back in with a number from his country of
residence, he couldnt because he had previously changed the number the app was
registered to, over to a Turkish number. So the app couldnt open Mr Ss account simply
because at that time the number he was inputting was no longer linked to his account.
Revolut sent evidence that Mr S changed the number to a Turkish one in late 2019, and that
its agent changed it back in late March 2020, to one from his country of residence, to allow
him to access the account.
Revolut said it had tried calling Mr S, but on the number it held for him, which was the
Turkish number. So he didnt answer. Revolut said it had done what it could to try to help Mr
S. It thought it hadnt done anything wrong, so it said that its offer was fair.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr S had
changed his number from a number from his country of residence on 20 November 2019,
and just hadnt changed it back. So the reason he couldnt get back into his account when he 
returned to his country of residence was because he was trying to log in using a local
number, but the number Revolut held for him at the time was a Turkish number.
Our investigator said Revolut changed Mr Ss contact number back to one from his country
of residence on 30 March 2020. And this is when he was able to access his account again.
Because Revolut hadnt done anything wrong, our investigator thought that its offer of eight
months of a premium plan (or the money equivalent, which is £48) was reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that Revolut didnt get him back into his account. He wasnt able
to access the account because that can only be done through the app and with the phone
number on record. So he had to take the chance and close that account and open a new
one, in the hope that the money in the old account could be transferred, when he had the
chance to prove his identity.
Mr S said our answer didnt explain how transactions were carried out when he was using
the wrong sim card. He wanted to know, if he still had a Turkish number registered with the
app, why he could use the app in his country of residence, then in Asia but then returning to
his country of residence it wouldnt work? He wanted us to ask Revolut for an explanation.
Our investigator said Mr Ss card had always worked, but Mr S said that wasnt what hed
asked. Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I can see that Mr S started raising this issue with Revolut on 26 February 2020. He 
was told on 4 March to use the apps chat feature to contact Revolut to discuss the 
problem. But Mr S had already said he couldnt access the app.There followed a long conversation where Revolut repeatedly said to Mr S that he 
needed to input the number associated with his account, and he repeatedly said that 
he was doing just that, but not seeing what Revolut told him he should see.
I can see how frustrating this was for Mr S. He and Revolut were talking at cross 
purposes, and he wasnt making any progress. But I dont think that was primarily 
Revoluts fault.
With an app like this, the phone number registered to the account is a key piece of 
information to access that account. Its the equivalent of a username. And the core 
issue here is that, while Mr S was trying to solve this problem, he was quite confident 
that the phone number he was giving Revolut was the right one, registered on the 
app. But we now know, from Revoluts internal records, that it wasnt.
Mr S had changed the number, when he went to Turkey. Ive seen the logs which 
show the number changed in late 2019, from a number that started with an 
international code from Mr Ss country of residence, to a number with a Turkish 
international dialling code. The last three digits of that number match the digits that 
Revolut tried to prompt him with, when it was asking him if he could remember the 
number on his old account.
Mr S then hadnt changed the number back, when he came back to his country of 
residence. The app still held the Turkish number, while he was at home, in Asia, and 
then back at home again. Revoluts logs show the number didnt change back, to one 
that started with an international code from Mr Ss country of residence, until late 
March 2020.
So the number Mr S thought this account was registered to, wasnt the right one. I 
think thats whats gone wrong here, and why it took Revolut so long to help him.
Although I understand that this was very frustrating for Mr S, I do think that Revolut 
tried to help. I dont think it was Revoluts fault that it wasnt able to help Mr S at first. 
It was working on the basis of what he told it, that the number he was inputting was 
the right one. So I dont think it was Revoluts fault that Mr S wasnt able to access 
his account for some time.
But I do think that Revolut had a responsibility, as part of dealing with Mr Ss 
complaint, to tell him what had gone wrong. And I cant see, when Revolut responded 
to his complaint, that it ever did that. It just told him this was a technical glitch. And 
it wasnt. 
I think that was a mistake. Revolut ought to have explained to Mr S why the number 
from his country of residence wouldnt unlock the app, and told him the things it has 
set out for our service now. Mr S shouldnt have to bring a complaint to our service, 
just to find out why he couldnt log into his account.
We know that Mr S was able to open a new account, and he got access to more 
detailed help in that way. Revolut was then able to verify his identity, and delete the 
new, duplicate account, as well as restore his access to his original account.
Mr S said he was worried hed lose his money, and Revolut wouldnt reassure him on 
that. But I havent been able to see that Mr S raised concerns about whether the 
money in his old account would be lost, and didnt receive reassurances on that.Mr S also wanted our service to explain how he could use the card for so long, with 
the wrong number. I cant be sure why the app didnt recognise earlier that the 
number Mr S had registered wasnt the same as the one on his sim card, or when 
exactly Mr S stopped inputting the Turkish number to access the app. But the 
complaint Mr S made was about why he couldnt access the app in his country of 
residence. Before this, nothing appears to have gone wrong. And our service has a 
narrow remit  we arent a regulator, we cant look at general concerns flagged up by 
complainants. So I cant also look into the security issues that Mr S raises now, to 
find out why this didnt go wrong earlier.
Ive considered this case carefully, and although I understand how frustrating it was 
for Mr S trying to get help, when he and Revolut appeared to be talking at cross 
purposes, I dont think that was Revoluts fault. And Ive explained that our service 
isnt a regulator, so I cant tell Revolut to change its security procedures, or to run a 
phone hotline for customers which can be accessed independently of its app.
I can just look at whats happened here. So Ive set out my understanding of this 
case above  that it wasnt Revoluts fault Mr S couldnt access his account, but that 
it did then let him down, by not explaining how things had gone wrong. Because of 
that, I think that Revoluts offer of £48 doesnt quite put right what has gone wrong 
here. I think Revolut should pay Mr S £100 in compensation. If Mr S has accepted 
Revoluts offer of £48 in cash, or £48-worth of premium service, then Revolut can 
deduct £48 from the amount it pays Mr S now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither party has replied. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Revolut Ltd must pay Mr S £100 in compensation. But if Mr S has 
accepted Revoluts offer of £48 in cash, or £48-worth of its premium service, then Revolut 
can deduct £48 from the amount it pays Mr S now.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman