DRN-1555850
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) delayed executing a transfer from his 
business account to his personal account, resulting in him losing two days of interest.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr M and HSBC, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
On the 25 March 2019 Mr M completed two transfer of funds application forms, the first 
requesting a transfer of Sterling from a business account to his personal account, and the 
second requesting the transfer of South African Rand from the business account to an 
account with Investec. 
Upon receipt of those forms HSBC tried to contact Mr M for clarification but were unable to 
as he was out of the country. Later, but still on the 25 March, Mr M notified HSBC of his 
contact details for when he was out of the country, and the following day HSBC rang him, 
twice, but were again unable to make contact. Sometime later in that day contact was made 
and Mr M confirmed the name of the beneficiary, the account number and the sort code for 
the transfer. He was asked for a reference which he declined to give. Ultimately the transfers 
left his account on the 27 March.
Mr M also complains that the second transfer didnt reach his account until the 29 March.
HSBC rejected the complaint arguing that the transfer of funds forms were missing certain 
pieces of information and as their terms and conditions required a customer to provide such 
information, and it wasnt, then they had not been unfair in not executing the transfer.
Mr M was unhappy with HSBCs final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and an investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator concluded that HSBC had 
provided poor service in part, and that to put matters right it ought to compensate Mr M by 
paying him £200 
Mr M didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. 
The evidence I have seen shows that the two transfer of funds application forms were not 
properly completed. For example, the boxes marked Beneficiary message and Beneficiary 
bank message were blank. I have also seen a timed email from Mr M to HSBC at 10:35 on 
the 25 March 2019 which at that time of year would have meant it was 12:35 in Mr Ms 
location. That email provided a contact number for Mr M whilst he was abroad. HSBCs 
evidence shows that attempts were made to contact him at 15:37 but were met with no 
response.
The call recording with Mr M on the 26 March reveals that the call handler asked for a 
payment reference number for the first payment, and also beneficiary details for the second 
payment. The latter were provided by Mr M but the former not. Mr M had suggested that his 
name be used as the reference but was told it needed to be a number. However, the call 
handler was clear in stating that the 2 payments had been made that day  the 26 March.
There is also evidence in the form of an email exchange between Mr M and CH from HSBC 
on the 26 March (following his earlier call), wherein CH agreed that the word transfer could 
be entered into the payment instruction form as the reference.
Analysing this evidence it is clear that Mr M failed to complete adequately, the transfer of 
funds application forms. That raised concerns within HSBC who decided they needed to 
contact him, but they did not do so until 15:37 which is some 4 hours after it received Mr Ms 
email giving them the correct contact number details. It is unclear to me why HSBC did not 
ring him on that number, and the answer may lie in that CH was not in the office that day, 
albeit it appears he was answering his emails. So the fact that Mr M incorrectly completed 
the forms ought not to have delayed matters beyond 15:37 on the 25 March because had 
they used the correct telephone number they would probably have made contact.
It is likely however that had HSBC made contact on the 25 March the conversation would 
have run along similar lines to that which it actually took place on the following day. That 
would have brought HSBC to the point of insisting on a numeric reference number rather 
than Mr Ms name, leading to the involvement of CH who seems to have overcome that 
hurdle by the simple use of the word transfer. So on a balance of probabilities; had HSBC 
called Mr M on the correct number provided to them, the matter could have been resolved 
on the 25 March. But given the time of day that would have occurred, I think it unlikely that 
the transfers could have been made that day, and it is more likely than not that it would have 
been the following day on the 26 March.
In so far as the second transfer request in relation to the South African rand is concerned 
this also left Mr Ms account on the 27 March, as evidenced from his statement. And from my 
findings above and for the same reasons I think it was reasonable to have expected it to 
leave on the 26 March. Although this transfer did not arrive into Mr Ms Investec account until 
the 29 March, I cant reasonably conclude that the delay in its receipt is the fault of HSBC.
Overlying all of this, the call handler gave Mr M the very clear indication that the 2 transfers 
would be made that same day  the 26 March. That did raise in Mr M the expectation that 
the transfers would be so made that day, since he had no reason to dispute what was said.Whilst HSBC hasnt accepted that it did anything wrong, my analysis shows that they did in 
fact fall into error, and because of that it should compensate Mr M. But I find that their error 
did not cause a delay of two days, only one.
Our investigator has suggested that £200 would be sufficient to put matters right but Mr M 
doesnt believe this is enough. So, Ive given this some further thought and in so doing Ive 
considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases. 
Mr M will probably be disappointed with my decision, but I do think the £200 is a fair and 
reasonable sum and I wont be requiring HSBC to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold the complaint against HSBC . 
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr M £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman