DRN-3500953
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the delay she says Elevate Portfolio Services Limited (Elevate) 
caused when she wanted to transfer her pension to a new provider. She wants to be 
compensated for the financial loss she says shes suffered.  
What happened
Mrs T held a pension plan with Elevate. On 13 February 2020, an adviser that Ill call adviser 
A sent a letter of Authority (LOA) to Elevate for information only about Mrs Ts plan. On 
20 February 2020 adviser A made a request to partially transfer her plan to a new provider, 
who confirmed  in an email to adviser A, that it had received the pension transfer instruction 
and had requested the proceeds of Mrs Ts plan from Elevate. 
The following day Elevate contacted the adviser that its records showed held servicing rights 
for the plan, who Ill refer to as adviser B, as there werent any details of the funds that 
needed to be partially transferred. Adviser B said it knew nothing about the transfer request 
but said it would speak with Mrs T to find out what was required. On 18 March 2020 adviser 
B told Elevate that it wasnt advising Mrs T on the transfer but was under the impression that 
it was supposed to be a full transfer of funds.
At this point adviser A complained to Elevate about the transfer having been put on hold. He 
said Mrs T had been financially disadvantaged and wanted to know the value of the plan on 
20 February 2020. He said that there was no evidence that Elevate had communicated with 
the new provider about any errors with the transfer request. He thought that Elevate should 
have contacted either the new provider or himself if clarification was needed, rather than 
contact adviser B.
Elevate explained that, because the transfer instruction was incomplete, it had gone back to 
adviser B for clarification as it was noted as being Mrs Ts servicing agent. It said adviser A 
didnt have permission to service Mrs Ts plan. It asked Mrs T to provide clear instructions on 
how the transfer was to proceed and to provide this in written form. 
However, no further request was subsequently made so Elevate cancelled the transfer 
request. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with the outcome of her complaint, so she brought it to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. He said the complaint shouldnt be upheld because 
Elevate hadnt done anything wrong. 
He thought Elevate acted reasonably in asking for clarification of the instructions to partially 
transfer funds, and as it had contacted the adviser who held the servicing rights for the plan 
(adviser B) for that clarity, he thought Elevate had acted correctly in that respect too. So he 
didnt think Elevate had caused any delays. 
Mrs T didnt agree. She made the following points in response:
When adviser A spoke with Elevate on 20 February 2020 it was agreed that all the 
funds should be sold. Adviser A was clear on this matter and he thought it was in fact 
the only decision Elevate should have made.
Adviser A had carried out numerous similar transfers and was of the view that 
organisations like Elevate used delaying tactics on these transfers.
A further request for a transfer pack had been made recently and the same delaying 
tactics had been employed. Adviser A thought that the regulator should be made 
aware of what he thought was sharp practice.
The delaying tactics meant the fund dropped by around £10,000 during that time 
which was a financial disadvantage to Mrs T.
Adviser A spoke with Elevate directly and it was agreed that it would sell all the 
funds. It was also obvious from the figures and the cash available from within the 
plan. 
The investigator said that the electronic transfer request was for a partial transfer and if the 
intention was to sell all the funds then a full transfer should have requested. He also 
reiterated that adviser A held an information only LOA  which meant that Elevate couldnt 
have acted on his instructions in any case. The investigator explained that Elevate had left a 
note on the electronic transfer system for the new provider to contact Mrs T or adviser A.
Despite further discussions the complaint remained unresolved and Mrs T requested that it 
be referred to an ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said the complaint should be upheld. I made the following points 
in support of my findings:
I was satisfied that Mrs Ts original request, and the electronic request the new 
provider sent to Elevate, indicated a partial transfer. So I thought it was reasonable 
that Elevate should want to clarify which funds should be sold. Mrs T was invested 
across a number of funds, so it was reasonable for Elevate to confirm whether some 
funds werent to be sold.
But I also had to consider if Elevate acted fairly with its confirmation request. I 
thought if it could have confirmed things quickly then a fall in the fund value might 
have been avoided.
The SIPP electronic transfer declaration stated that the transfer request had been 
made by an adviser  who Mrs T had consented to acting on her behalf. So I thought 
Elevate needed to go back to an adviser for further clarification.  
But adviser A, who had requested the transfer didnt have the requisite authority as 
his LOA was for information only. So in order to get clarification about advisory 
matters Elevate had to contact the adviser who held the servicing rights  who was 
adviser B. The effect of that action was that delays were incurred in getting the 
information from Mrs T and the value of the fund fell considerably.
But Elevate hadnt received further instructions in any case, so it cancelled the 
request.
Adviser A said that hed spoken with Elevate and it was agreed that all the funds 
would be sold. But there wasnt any available evidence to support that claim  so I 
couldnt reasonably say that Elevate had provided misleading information. In any 
case without the necessary permissions it was unlikely Elevate would have given 
advice about the transfer to adviser A.
I thought Elevate was entitled to ask for clarification of the transfer request, which 
contained missing information if indeed a partial transfer was required. And I thought it was reasonable that Elevate should seek that confirmation from adviser B  as that 
was the adviser noted on its records as holding servicing rights for Mrs Ts plan. 
Response to the provisional decision
Mrs T didnt provide any response, while Elevate simply confirmed that it was only able to 
act on the instructions of adviser B  as it held servicing rights according to Elevates 
records.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And as neither party has provided any further submissions, I see no reason to depart from 
the provisional outcome. Im sure Mrs T will be disappointed with this outcome, so Ill confirm 
my reasoning. 
Ive considered the initial transfer request and whether it was clear, and then whether 
Elevate acted fairly in respect of its actions after the request was first made.
The transfer request
Adviser A said he was acting for Mrs T when he asked for a transfer pack from Elevate in 
order to move her pension to a new provider. On 20 February 2020 the new provider 
confirmed receipt of a transfer request in an email to the adviser, which said Thank you for 
completing the pension transfer instruction online. Confirmation of the transfer instruction 
has been sent to the client today, please find attached a copy of this letter.  Ive seen a copy 
of that letter which summarised the transfer fund as being approximately £48,640 and which 
wasnt in drawdown at that time  and was noted as being a partial transfer. 
Ive also seen a screenshot of the electronic request the new provider made to Elevate. Its 
notes confirmed, is a partial transfer for £48,640. So all the available evidence would 
suggest that Elevate was informed this was a partial transfer and, despite adviser As 
assertion that the only conclusion Elevate could have drawn here, given the value of the 
fund, was that it should be a full transfer, I dont think Elevate acted incorrectly by trying to 
clarify the situation. 
I dont think it was clear that Mrs T wanted a full transfer given what information was 
provided to Elevate. Mrs Ts plan was invested in a number of funds across model portfolios, 
so I dont think Elevate could be sure that some funds werent to be sold. In order to uphold 
a complaint about Elevate causing an unnecessary delay to the transfer I would need to be 
sure that it acted incorrectly, and I dont think it did here. If Mrs T wanted to request a full 
transfer, then the box for a full transfer should have been ticked. In the circumstances I think 
Elevate was entitled to clarify the detail of the transfer if it believed it was a partial one.
But of course, although I think Elevate was entitled to seek some clarity around the transfer, 
I would still have expected it to do that in the appropriate manner, as any further delay might 
have led to a financial loss if the fund value fell in the meantime. 
Elevates actions in confirming the transfer details The first thing to note here is that adviser A wasnt noted as Mrs Ts servicing adviser on 
Elevates records. In his previous correspondence to Elevate he had requested information 
only about Mrs Ts plan in his LOA, which meant Elevate wasnt able to discuss any 
advice issues about Mrs Ts plan with him. So when Elevate needed confirmation of the 
transfer details, it was left to contact Mrs T or her servicing adviser for an answer to its 
queries.  However, the SIPP electronic transfer declaration noted that your adviser has 
initiated a transfer request on your behalf. They have confirmed that they have obtained 
evidence of your consent to the declaration outlined below.  
I think that declaration made it clear that Mrs T had given responsibility to her adviser over 
the matter of the transfer and would have expected it to deal with any questions or requests 
for further information on her behalf. So I think Elevate was right to go back to the adviser for 
clarification of the funds that were to be partially transferred. But as Ive suggested above, 
adviser A wasnt the servicing adviser and therefore Elevate had to contact adviser B for the 
required clarification. This led to delays as adviser B wasnt involved in the transfer and was 
unable to get an answer from Mrs T and in the meantime the fund value dropped 
significantly.
But I cant reasonably say that was Elevates responsibility. Theres no available evidence to 
show that it was obliged to contact Mrs T in such a situation and, as Ive explained, it 
wouldnt have been able to discuss the matter with adviser A  even if it had contacted him. 
So I dont think Elevate did anything wrong here and Im satisfied it took the appropriate 
steps to confirm the details of the requested partial transfer.
Adviser As communication with Elevate 
Adviser A said he had previously discussed this matter directly with Elevate who, he said, 
had agreed with him that the funds would all be sold and transferred in full. Adviser A wasnt 
able to provide details of these calls so I asked Elevate, who provided a number of calls 
between it and adviser B, but couldnt locate any telephone communication with adviser A. 
Theres no reason to dispute adviser As version of events here but I would need some 
evidence to support his claim of what he said he was told. But I havent been provided with 
anything to suggest Elevate did provide adviser A with any misleading or confusing 
information about the transfer  so I cant reasonably say it did anything wrong. And while I 
dont dispute what adviser A has said, Ive taken into account that Elevate would have had 
no reason to discuss the detail of the transfer with him in any such discussion as he didnt 
have the required authority.
But even if I am wrong about what might have been discussed, based on all the available 
evidence, I dont think Elevate acted unfairly here. Even if Mrs T and her adviser think 
Elevate should have taken another course of action I think it was justified in firstly clarifying 
the instruction for a partial transfer, and then to seek that clarification from the adviser it 
had noted on its records as Mrs Ts current servicing adviser. 
So I dont think any financial loss arising from the fall in the value of Mrs Ts plan during this 
process was Elevates responsibility and Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman