DRN-2723144
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) for its decision to decline 
her claim under her home emergency policy. Mrs P wants RSA to reimburse her for the 
costs she incurred paying for private repairs. 
What happened
In this decision, RSA includes its agents or authorised intermediaries. 
In April 2020, Mrs P took out domestic home emergency cover. The policy she purchased 
was underwritten by RSA. 
Around a week later, Mrs P made a claim under her policy because she had noticed an 
issue with her drains. These were flooding outside with foul water, and were causing the 
indoor drains and the toilet to back up. 
RSA asked Mrs P some initial questions and sent a contractor out to Mrs Ps property. 
The contractor attempted to clear the blockage with a high-pressured jet. This cleared part of 
the blockage, but the contractor noted that the jet was hitting a solid obstruction. They 
advised Mrs P that they needed to return to carry out tracing of the blockage and to carry out 
a repair. 
Mrs P called RSA and was told that her policy would not cover this work, and that she ought 
to contact her home insurance provider. 
Mrs P engaged a private contractor to carry out the repair and contacted us to complain. She 
felt it unfair that her claim had been turned down and she had incurred costs. 
The complaint was then put to RSA and a final response was sent in March 2021. This 
rejected the complaint and argued that her cover was limited to external drains which could 
be unblocked by jetting, and that it was appropriate to refer Mrs P to her buildings insurer for 
a permanent repair.
One of our investigators has considered this matter and set out their view to the parties. This 
was that the terms of the policy did not restrict cover to only plumbing which could be 
cleared by jetting, and that Mrs P should have been covered for the repair. The investigator 
considered that RSA ought to reimburse Mrs P for the costs she incurred, with interest, and 
that RSA ought to pay her £250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
RSA has not accepted that view, so the complaint has been referred for ombudsman 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have had particular regard to the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps home emergency 
insurance, and I have listened to the available telephone call recordings. 
The policy wording, under the section entitled Plumbing and Drainage, states under what is 
covered?:
Emergency repairs following damage to or failure of the plumbing and drainage system 
which:
a. Means that internal flood or water damage is a likely consequence;
b. Means that you do not have access to a useable toilet within you home; or
c. Causes blocked external drains that are solely your responsibility and within the 
boundary of the home, where this can be resolved by jetting.
Under the heading How your cover works, the terms explain that the policy covers 
temporary repairs, or a permanent repair where this can be done at a similar cost or where 
no temporary repair is available. 
The terms also explain that there may be times when the contractor has to carry out trace 
and access in order to locate the emergency, in order to carry out the repair. 
Reading the terms as a whole, I am satisfied that the criteria for cover are alternatives. The 
policy provides for temporary repairs (or permanent repairs if a temporary repair is not 
available), including trace and access, when any of the situations described at section 1 
apply. These include when the policy holder does not have a usable toilet in their home.  
In the telephone call from Mrs P to RSA, in which she reports the issue, she explained that 
the indoor drains and toilet were backing up with waste water, and that the outdoor drain 
was flooding. 
In my view, this indicated that at least one of the criteria for a plumbing and drainage repair 
was met. 
The contractor instructed by RSA attended and was able to restore some flow of water to the 
drain but noted that the high-pressured jet was unsuccessful and was hitting an obstruction. 
He considered that two engineers needed to return to carry out a sonar drain trace and carry 
out a spot evacuation, or to replace the defective pipework and reinstate the surface. The 
engineers quote for the total work was within the policy limit. 
RSA has argued that the restoration of some water flow meant that a temporary repair was 
conducted and that it consequently had met its obligations under the policy. 
I appreciate that some water flow had been restored but I do not consider that there was 
evidence of an adequate temporary repair. This is because the engineers report makes 
clear that the obstruction in the pipe remained and a functional repair could not be 
conducted without tracing. In addition, Mrs P reports that the issues of water backing up 
continued. On which basis, I agree with the investigators view that Mrs P did not have 
access to a useable toilet in her home and did not receive a temporary repair as this was not 
available on the engineers first visit. Accordingly, the policy cover should have extended to a 
permanent repair up to the limit of cover. 
RSA then advised Mrs P on two occasions that her policy did not extend to these repairs. I 
agree with the investigators conclusion that this was incorrect, in light of the policy wording. In addition, RSA advised Mrs P that claims made within 14 days of policy inception would 
not be covered, where in fact the terms of the policy specified that claims arising within 48 
hours of the commencement date would be excluded. This was therefore not relevant to Mrs 
Ps claim but made her think she was not covered. 
As a consequence of these pieces of advice, Mrs P engaged a contractor to undertake the 
repair work, at her expense, when this should have been covered by her home emergency 
cover. I am satisfied that these decisions and advice to Mrs P constitute failings of service.
Putting things right
In light of the above, I agree with the investigators view that, in order to put things right, RSA 
should reimburse Mrs P for the cost of the repairs (£780) and pay her interest from the date 
of her paying the contractors invoice up until settlement. This should be at the rate of 8% 
simple interest per annum. 
I also agree that RSA should pay Mrs P compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Mrs P and her family were without a satisfactorily working toilet for more than a week and 
had to use toilet facilities at a family members home, or make other arrangements. I am 
satisfied this will have caused significant distress and inconvenience, and that the sum of 
£250 suggested by the investigator is fair and is in line with other awards we would make in 
similar circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to:
Reimburse Mrs P for the costs she paid to her contractor, within 7 days of Mrs P 
providing evidence of payment. 
Pay to Mrs P interest on the above payment at a rate of 8% per annum for the period 
from Mrs P paying the invoice up until settlement. 
Pay to Mrs P £250 compensation for her trouble and upset.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman