DRN-2868631
The complaint
Ms M complained that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender gave her unaffordable 
loans.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Mr Lender provided to Ms M as follows: 
 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 18/03/2014 29/04/2014 1 £250.00 £337.50
break in lending of around two years
2 15/05/2016 08/07/2016 2 £100.00 £69.20
3 08/07/2016 30/09/2016 2 £150.00 £107.76
4 12/12/2016 07/07/2017 6 £200.00 £84.53
5 23/07/2017 26/06/2018 6 £400.00 £185.22
6 26/06/2018 26/12/2018 6 £400.00 £162.66
7 27/12/2018 outstanding 12 £1,500.00 £322.76
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Ms complaint. She felt whilst loans 1-5 hadnt been unfair 
(although she didnt say why) the pattern of lending itself showed that from loan 6 onwards 
the borrowing was unsustainable  so Mr Lender shouldnt have given Ms M loans 6 or 7. 
Our adjudicator set out the steps she felt Mr Lender should take to put things right for Ms M.
Neither Ms M nor Mr Lender have accepted our adjudicators view. Ms M told us she was a 
student when she started borrowing from Mr Lender and said she was struggling financially. 
She mentioned having had problems sometimes paying her rent on time and said that some 
months she needed to work overtime in order to pay off her debts.
Mr Lender mainly said that in the two years between Ms M taking out loan 2 and applying for 
loan 6 there had been 90 days when she didnt have a loan with Mr Lender, and she had 
explained the particular reasons why she needed to borrow loans 6 and 7. So Mr Lender 
disagreed that Ms Ms pattern of lending by loan 6 demonstrated that shed become reliant 
on this sort of borrowing  or that her complaint should be upheld.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay all the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully thought about what this all means for Ms Ms complaint. 
When Ms M took out loan 1, I dont think that Mr Lender had any reason to think that she 
couldnt afford the loan. Given the loan amount, what was apparent about Ms Ms 
circumstances at the time and the fact that this was her first ever loan with Mr Lender, I dont 
think a proportionate check wouldve required Mr Lender to make any more in-depth 
enquiries than it did. There wasnt anything in the information Ms M provided, or the 
information Mr Lender shouldve been aware of, which meant that Mr Lender shouldve 
taken steps to verify the information Ms M had declared. 
I think Mr Lender was reasonably entitled to rely on the information Ms M provided and what 
its own credit checks showed  and it had no reason to think that the loan wouldnt be 
sustainably affordable for her. So I agree with our adjudicator that this isnt a loan I can fairly 
uphold. 
Ms M didnt ask Mr Lender for any more loans during the two years or so that passed 
between paying loan 1 and taking out loan 2. That gap in lending seems long enough to me for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Ms M mightve put her finances in order during this 
period. This meant that when her borrowing started again, and Ms M applied for loan 2, she 
was effectively starting over. So it was fair for Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of 
borrowing and assess her lending requests accordingly.
Looking at the repayments that Ms M needed to make on loans 2-5, the amounts wouldve 
seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income shed declared. And it 
doesnt look like there was anything flagged up in the credit checks that Mr Lender did that 
suggested it needed to ask more searching questions or check the information Ms M had 
provided when she made her applications for these loans. Overall, given these repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Ms Ms circumstances at the time, and her borrowing 
history with Mr Lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask 
Ms M for the amount of information that would be needed to show any of this lending was 
unsustainable before agreeing these loans. 
So I dont plan to uphold Ms Ms complaint about loans 2 -5.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Ms M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ms case, I think by loan 6 Mr Lender should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
I say this because at this point Mr Lender ought to have realised:
Ms M was not managing to repay her loans sustainably. Since May 2016 she had 
been borrowing, without any significant gaps in lending, for just over two years 
I dont consider that the gaps between Ms M paying loan 3 and taking out loan 4, or 
before taking out loan 5, were long enough for Mr Lender reasonably to say that this 
showed Ms M wasnt borrowing more or less continuously 
the loan amounts varied, but Mr Lender could see that loan 4 was for more than the 
amount of loan 3, loan 5 was Ms Ms biggest single loan to date and the same day 
that she repaid this loan, she took out loan 6 for the same amount again. 
so, despite what Ms M had said were the reasons for needing to borrow, it wasnt 
reasonable of Mr Lender to think her situation had improved and she was now asking 
to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan rather than an ongoing 
problem 
Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely that Ms M was borrowing further 
to cover the hole repaying previous loans was leaving in her finances and that 
Ms Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
I think that Ms M lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:loans 6 and 7 had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time 
by now, the overall pattern of Ms Ms borrowing was likely to have negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans. 
So, as things stand, Im planning on upholding the complaint about loans 6 and 7.
As far as I can see, Mr Lender hasnt acted in any other way towards Ms M that wasnt fair 
and reasonable. 
So Im not planning to award any additional redress over and above the steps I think Mr 
Lender should take to put things right after providing loans unfairly.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ms M has confirmed she has nothing further to add.
Mr Lender hasnt commented further and the deadline for responses has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And I've taken all 
this into account when thinking about this complaint. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Ms M, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if she had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. 
If Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the following: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms M as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Ms M having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then that should be paid to Ms M. However if there is still an outstanding 
balance Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms M  
keeping in mind at all times the need to treat her positively and sympathetically in 
those discussions.
E. The overall pattern of Ms Ms  borrowing means that from the point of loan 6 any 
information recorded about this loan and the later loan is adverse. So all entries 
about loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Ms Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decisionI partly uphold this complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to take 
the steps I've set out above to put things right for Ms M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman