DRN-2383009
The complaint
Mr W complained about the repairs that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) made to his cars 
windscreen under his motor insurance policy. He wanted his windscreen replaced and 
compensation for his trouble and upset and his loss of use.  
What happened
Mr Ws rear windscreen was damaged, and he made a claim to UKI for its replacement. UKI 
approved the claim and authorised its repairer to carry out the replacement. But it didnt 
complete this as it said it couldnt remove a rusty nut. UKI said it wouldnt pay for the nut to 
be removed due to a policy exclusion for wear and tear. 
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the contract 
of insurance was between UKI and Mr W and so it should carry out the repair. He thought it 
had approved the claim and hadnt justified not paying for the nut to be removed. He thought 
it should arrange for the nut to be removed so the windscreen could be replaced. And he 
thought it should pay Mr W £250 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
UKI declined to do this. Mr W said he couldnt drive the car as it was unroadworthy and he 
eventually had the windscreen replaced at his own cost. UKI later made a cash in lieu offer 
of £541.43, less the policy excess, for the windscreen replacement, with the understanding 
that Mr W would pay for the cost of removing the nut. 
But Mr W was unhappy with this as he said he was unable to use his car in the meantime. 
Mr W had the repairs made and he said these cost £590. Our investigator then 
recommended that UKI pay Mr W the cost of the repairs and £1,100 (£10 a day for 110 
days) for his loss of use. 
UKI replied that Mr W should have had the nut removed when advised by the repairer and 
so avoided further losses. It declined to pay for the loss of use.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to UKI on 9 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
UKI said the rusty nut couldnt be removed for fear of causing damage to the cars bodywork. 
From what I could see, the nut in question needed to be removed so that the windscreen 
could be replaced. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how repairs to a vehicle would be made as 
this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for repairs.
UKI declined to deal with the nuts removal as it said the policy didnt cover wear and tear. I 
could see this in the policy booklet. But I thought it was unfair for UKI to rely on this term to 
decline Mr Ws claim. This was because Mr Ws claim was for windscreen repair, and UKI 
has approved this. I thought that if the nut needed to be removed in order for this to be 
carried out, then UKI should do this. 
UKIs own engineer said:
If the Nut is part of the glass replacement then [the repairer] should deal with it. But if the 
nut is something that is not connected to the glass and its something to do with other body 
or trim work and could cause damage I can understand why they will not touch it and would 
want the PH to get this sorted first.
As the nut removal is necessary for the glass replacement, then I thought UKI should be 
responsible for this. So I thought UKI, based on its own engineers statement, hadnt justified 
its decision not to pay for the nuts removal. So I thought it was reasonable for UKI to refund 
Mr W the cost of having the nut removed and the windscreen replaced. This was £590 and I 
could see that evidence of this has already been provided to UKI.
Our investigator thought UKI should compensate Mr W for his loss of use. But I didnt agree 
that this would be fair or reasonable. I thought the repairer told Mr W to have the nut 
removed and then it would replace the windscreen. It then made a temporary repair. 
Mr W said he couldnt drive the car as he said he was told it was unroadworthy. And he said 
he had to pay for public transport. He said repairers refused to deal with the replacement as 
UKI\s repairer had started work. Mr W also told UKI that the interior of the car was damaged 
because water got in. He said the engineer who finally made the repair said none of the nuts 
were rusty. 
I dont doubt this, but I hadnt seen any evidence to support any of these claims. What I had 
seen was that UKIs repairer made temporary repairs. It also said it hadnt carried out any 
work. And Mr W was able to find a garage that would make the whole repair. 
I thought it was for Mr W to mitigate his losses. So Id expect him to make arrangements, as 
he eventually did, to have the nut removed whilst he disputed this with UKI. So I couldnt 
reasonably hold UKI responsible for Mr Ws loss of use of his car. 
I did, however, think that UKI caused Mr W avoidable stress and frustration by not dealing 
with the removal of the nut when the issue first arose. Mr W then had to arrange the repair 
himself. I thought UKI should pay him £100 compensation for this as this is in keeping with 
what Id award in similar situations.
Subject to any further representations by Mr W or UKI, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require UKI to reimburse Mr W £590 for the 
cost of replacing his windscreen (including removing the nut). And I also thought it should 
pay Mr W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W replied that he thought the amount of compensation was too low as he was unable to 
drive his car as he said it was unroadworthy. But Ive already addressed this point in my 
provisional decision above. He also thought UKIs repairer was incompetent. But its not our 
role to punish businesses for any mistakes. He said he intended to donate any 
compensation to charity. 
UKI replied that it hadnt declined the claim due to wear and tear, just the removal of the nut. 
I think this is clearly understood in the provisional decision above. It said it had agreed to pay 
Mr W the amount it would have cost its repairer to make the replacement. I dont doubt this, 
but I also think it should cover the cost of removing the nut and so reimburse Mr W for his 
costs. 
So, as I havent seen any new evidence to change my provisional decision, I can see no 
reason to change it. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr W, I think UKI should reimburse him £590 for the cost of replacing 
his windscreen (including removing the nut). And I think it should pay Mr W £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman