DRN-3764406
The complaint
Mrs R (represented by her son, Mr R) complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard (Barclays) wont refund her for the money she lost to a rogue trader scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Barclays is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. And so, as Mrs R authorised the 
payments shes disputing, the starting position is that shes liable for them. 
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If 
Barclays failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it 
liable.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded Barclays ought to have intervened with these 
payments. I appreciate that, over time, their overall value was significant. But looking at the 
payments individually, I don't think they were reasonably of a level where the bank ought to 
have identified a fraud risk  bearing in mind its duty to promptly follow authorised payment 
instructions without undue delay.
There are several factors that will have made these transactions look less concerning to 
Barclays fraud detection systems. The level of the individual payments didn't seem 
suspiciously high, given Mrs R's general spending. The ATM and Post Office locations used 
for the withdrawals were local to her. She had previously used the ATM to make withdrawals 
of the same/a similar size to those made during the rogue trader scam. More widely, the 
level of the withdrawals was in line with previous ATM withdrawals. And her genuine card 
and correct PIN were being used. 
While I understand some withdrawals were done over the counter in the Post Office, they 
were processed by Post Office staff, not Barclays employees. So there wouldnt have been 
the same expectation  or opportunity  for them to intervene beyond processing the 
payments as instructed. For example, they didnt have access to Mrs R's account history to 
see if there was anything concerning about her account activity. 
Overall, Im therefore not persuaded that Barclays can be held at fault for not intervening 
with these payments. 
I appreciate Mrs Rs nearest Barclays branch had recently closed. Mr R says, if it had 
remained open, Mrs R would have used the branch for the withdrawals  and it would have 
been apparent to staff that she was being scammed. But I cant fairly say, in response to this 
individual complaint, that Barclays made an error by closing this branch. Nor have I seen any 
suggestion that Barclays acted improperly in notifying customers of the closure or 
considering the impact of it.
In any event, I would consider it too remote and speculative to conclude that, but for the 
branch closure, Mrs R wouldnt have lost out. We dont know she would have visited the 
branch, rather than using the nearer Post Office and/or ATM facilities, for any of the 
payments. Nor do we know that, if she had done so, it would have been apparent to branch 
staff that she was at risk from fraud.
Additionally, although Ive not found Barclays ought to have intervened, Im also not 
persuaded it would have uncovered the scam even if it had spoken to Mrs R about the 
payments. The builder was hired based on a personal, trusted recommendation. And Ive not 
found any negative, public information prior to this incident which would have made it 
obvious he was acting improperly. That will have made the circumstances look less 
suspicious. 
At least initially, there was an invoice for the works being done. And its accepted that further 
works were agreed. Although we know (in hindsight) that they were done to a poor standard, 
some works were completed. Ive asked Mr R about those further works, and whether 
paperwork was produced in relation to them. Ive not received a clear answer to this. So, 
based on the information I do have, its not clear to me that Barclays would have realised the 
builder was acting fraudulently if it had spoken to Mrs R. 
Im mindful Trading Standards valued the works at around £3,610. That factored in the poor 
workmanship and remedial work needed. If the work had been done to a good standard, 
they said the valuation could have been up to £5,500. So that means, of the £6,500 Mrs R is 
disputing, some of that has been paid fairly. And if the bank had questioned Mrs R about the 
amount she was paying compared to the work being completed, it would have been less 
apparent that the builder may have inflated the costs. 
In saying all of this, I do want to make it clear that I greatly empathise with Mrs Rs situation. 
Shes unfairly lost out due to his cruel actions of the trader. Trading Standards say there is 
evidence of criminal offences in relation to his dealings with Mrs R.  But Im not persuaded 
that the fraud risk ought to have been obvious to Barclays based on the transactions. Nor 
am I persuaded that, even if it had identified such a risk, it was likely to have uncovered the 
scam and prevented (some of) Mrs Rs loss by questing her about the payments. And so, in 
the circumstances, I dont consider it fair to direct Barclays to refund her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman