DRN-1701011
 
The complaint
Mr B and Ms H complain about information Mr B was given by HSBC UK Bank Plc about a 
payment he wanted to make. He wanted to pay someone from their HSBC joint account 
immediately, but the payment was delayed until the next day.
What happened
This is a joint account, but the issues raised involve Mr B, so Ill address him in my decision. 
Mr B tried to make a payment over the phone on 22 July 2019. He was expecting the 
payment to go through the same day. But he was told the payment would be delayed until 
the next day, because it was subject to checks. Mr B said HSBC told him this was the fault of 
the receiving bank. Mr B complained, and HSBC wrote to say it was actually its fault. And Mr 
B said he was expecting HSBC to call to discuss his complaint, but it didnt.
Our investigator listened to the call, and said that whilst it, and HSBCs letter, could both 
have been clearer, he didnt think that either confirmed whether the delay was caused by 
HSBC or the receiving bank. He wouldnt expect HSBC to confirm what had happened, for 
security reasons. 
Our investigator didnt think HSBC needed to pay compensation. It hadnt given Mr B any 
incorrect information, and it hadnt promised him a call back. It had replied to his complaint in 
writing the day after it was made. 
Mr B asked us to look at part of the letter HSBC had sent him. HSBC had said ..if our Fraud 
Team is closed or will be unable to complete these checks straight away, we will hold the 
payment until the next morning. Mr B said that raised questions on consistency, because if 
the fraud team was open, then why would they be unable to complete checks until the 
morning? He thought he must have been misinformed either during the call or by HSBCs 
letter. He as a customer felt he was entitled to know if HSBCs fraud team was open, and if 
they were open, why checks werent done straight away. 
Mr B wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B wanted his payment sent immediately. HSBCs terms set out that usually this will be 
possible, but they also say .. on some occasions it may take longer to allow us to complete 
our checks. So the terms of Mr Bs account do explain that it wont always be possible to 
send a payment immediately. And I think its not unusual for a relatively large payment to a 
new payee to be delayed by a bank for further checks.Mr B said that what HSBC said in its letter and in its call raised questions on consistency. I 
dont think these are inconsistent. Ive listened carefully to the call Mr B had with HSBC. I 
think HSBC gave an example of why a payment could be delayed, but didnt confirm that 
was the reason. And I think that its letter also gave reasons why payments might be delayed, 
but didnt confirm exactly what the reason for this was. 
HSBCs letter explained that a payment could be delayed either if its own fraud team was 
closed, or if it was unable to complete checks right away. Mr B feels he should be told 
whether the fraud team was open or not. HSBCs call handler said that it was, and Ive not 
seen anything to make me doubt that. 
Mr B also wanted to know why checks couldnt be done straight away. But I dont think that 
HSBC can answer that question without telling Mr B a lot more about the sort of checks that 
it was doing. And keeping those details secure is part of keeping this account safe. So I 
wouldnt expect HSBC to give Mr B more information about the sort of checks that it was 
doing, and to set out in detail why those couldnt be completed immediately. 
Mr B also complained that HSBC didnt call him back, it just wrote to him. But, like our 
investigator, I dont think HSBC agreed with Mr B that it would call him. It wrote to him 
promptly to respond to his complaint. 
Ive considered this case carefully, and I dont think HSBC has been unfair or unreasonable. 
So I dont think it needs to pay Mr B compensation for whats happened here. I know Mr B 
will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman