DRN-2828942
The complaint
Mr T complains about delays he experienced when he cashed in his National Savings & 
Investments (NS&I) premium bonds. 
Mr T is represented by his mother, Mrs T, in bringing this complaint. While Mrs T has carried 
out many of the actions and requests on Mr Ts behalf, for ease, I will refer to them as being 
carried out by Mr T, other than where it relates to Mrs T specifically. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr T sent a form to NS&I requesting to cash in his premium bonds and 
transfer the funds to an account of his choosing. The request was received by NS&I on 
9 March 2020, but as Mr T hadnt been in contact with NS&I previously, they requested a 
witness signature. The signature was received on 19 March 2020, but the money wasnt 
transferred out until 27 April 2020; and a second witness signature request was sent. Mr T 
also made a number of calls after the initial request and was told each time that the money 
would be with him within around 3 - 4 days. 
By 22 April 2020 the funds had still not arrived, so Mr T contacted NS&I. He says he was 
told at this point that the delay was partly due to him not having a credit history. So, unhappy 
with this, he complained.  
NS&I apologised for the service provided, and said that the second witness signature 
request was their error. They said theyd been working in smaller teams due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, which meant their postal applications were taking longer to process. They said 
the advice given regarding the money being there within a few days was correct under 
normal circumstances, but given the delays they were experiencing, they shouldve shared 
the up-to-date wait times with Mr T. So they paid Mr T £200 to compensate him for the poor 
service. They also said there were five outstanding prizes of £25 each due to be paid to 
Mr T. 
Mrs T responded, but said the compensation offered to Mr T was insufficient, as the delay in 
the funds being transferred meant she missed out on securing a specific re-mortgage 
product. So the complaint was brought to our service.
An investigator considered the complaint. But said she couldnt consider any financial loss 
Mrs T experienced in not securing the re-mortgage product, as she is not an eligible 
complainant and is only representing Mr T. She agreed there were shortcomings in the 
service NS&I provided, and that these had caused Mr T some inconvenience. But she 
thought the £200 NS&I had paid Mr T was adequate to compensate him for this, so she 
didnt ask them to do anything further. But Mrs T, on behalf of Mr T remained unhappy. So 
the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the complaint has been with our service, Mrs T has confirmed that Mr T has now 
received the five £25 prizes. And as these didnt form part of the original complaint, I havent 
looked at these any further during my investigation. 
Turning to the key element of the complaint  the delays experienced when trying to cash in 
the premium bonds, its clear things took longer than they should have. NS&I have explained 
this was due to staffing shortages as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
I appreciate now, at the time of looking at this, some of the controls and restrictions in place 
have eased. But when NS&I received Mr Ts fully completed forms, the advice in place in the 
UK was for everyone to stop non-essential contact and travel. And just four days after 
receiving the forms, it was announced that the UK would go into lockdown, with people being 
told to stay at home.
These were unprecedented times, with businesses having to adapt their operations and 
manage staffing levels at very short notice. And it wasnt unusual for customers to have 
experienced delays during this period. However, I think NS&I (and they agree), couldve 
done more to explain this to Mr T, and set out the revised timescales, rather than continuing 
to tell him the money would be in his account within a few days. So I dont think the service 
provided in this regard was at the level Mr T should come to expect. 
Turning to the comments made by NS&I about Mr T not having a credit file, Ive looked into 
this to understand the impact this wouldve had on Mr Ts funds being withdrawn. 
I appreciate Mrs T has set out that the lack of a credit file for Mr T didnt impact his ability to 
open the account, and therefore shouldnt slow things down when he looked to close it  and 
I agree with Mrs Ts comments here. But NS&I have explained that the lack of credit file 
didnt slow the process down as such, but prevented them from being able to speed things 
up through asking Mr T some additional security questions over the phone, which involved 
verifying information against his credit file, which he could not do. But NS&I have confirmed 
the postal application process would have always taken as long as it did due to the delays 
they were experiencing due the pandemic. While frustrating, I dont think the overall time 
taken to process Mr Ts request was unreasonable in the circumstances. Especially given 
the dates in question, and I dont think NS&I caused any additional delays at this point either. 
Mrs T has said not only did the delays cause Mr T stress, but she also suffered a financial 
loss as a result of not having the funds showing in her account in time for her to make a 
re-mortgage application. But this is Mr Ts complaint, and the account is held in Mr Ts name, 
with Mrs T set up as a representative. Therefore, she is not a customer in her own right, and 
not an eligible complainant. And the rules Im governed by only allow me to consider awards 
to an eligible complainant. They dont allow me to consider any losses that Mrs T (as the 
representative) has experienced as a result of NS&Is failings.
In summary, while I accept there were legitimate reasons for the delays in processing Mr Ts 
requests, I do think NS&I couldve done more to manage Mr Ts expectations, and couldve 
provided clearer, more up to date information throughout the withdrawal process. But NS&I 
have accepted their shortcomings in this regard, and have paid Mr T £200 compensation in 
respect of this. And, on balance, I think this is fair compensation in the circumstances. So, I 
wont be asking NS&I to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman