DRN-3641679
The complaint
Ms B has complained Santander UK plc wont refund £1,000 withdrawn from a cash 
machine in July 2021.
What happened
Ms B held a current account with Santander with a substantial balance. As Ms B has been 
getting older, she increasingly relies on her live-in carer although she still has her mobility 
and manages her own finances. A new debit card was issued on 24 June 2021.
On 15 July 2021 an amendment was made to Ms Bs cash machine withdrawal limit 
increasing this to £1,000. £1,000 was then withdrawn in three cash machine transactions for 
£20, £750 and £230 over a two-minute period.
Ms B complained to Santander that she hadnt authorised these transactions. Santander 
declined this claim as Ms B had confirmed she had the card in her possession. They were 
also unsure how anyone else could have known her PIN.
Ms B brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed it was most likely Ms B had authorised these transactions by 
allowing someone else to use her card.
Ms B has asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Ms Bs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Ms B can be treated as 
acting with apparent authority when making transactions on their account.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Ms B needs 
to have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied the three withdrawals were authenticated from the information provided to us by 
Santander. Im in no doubt the genuine card and PIN were used.
This is relevant as Ms B confirmed in discussions with Santander that she had the card in 
her possession when she disputed these withdrawals.
This on its own isnt enough to suggest Ms B allowed someone else to use her card so I 
have taken the following into consideration:
This was a newly-ordered card and delivered to Ms Bs address.
No use of this Santander account had been made over the previous year other than 
monthly pension credits being received. This is why there was a substantial amount 
in the account at the time of the withdrawals.
Ms B must use another account more regularly. Her carer questioned why Id need 
this information and wouldnt confirm what other accounts Ms B held.
The cash withdrawal limit was amended prior to the withdrawals. This would have to 
have been completed within a branch using the genuine card and PIN.
£1,000 was withdrawn but the remaining money in the account was untouched so Im 
satisfied any withdrawal was not made by an unknown third party.
Ms Bs carer knows Ms Bs PIN and more likely uses this when completing any 
shopping. I know Ms B  in fact her carer  has told us Ms B generally withdraws 
cash and used that for her shopping. However I see nothing to suggest Ms Bs carer 
 and potentially another party  would not have known where her card was kept and 
what the PIN was. In fact Ms Bs carer has confirmed to us he knows where the card 
is kept.
Ms B has told us no-one other than herself and her carer knows her PIN. On the issue of 
consent, I think all the evidence suggests someone known to Ms B used the card to make 
the withdrawals and Ms B authorised these transactions. I see no reason why Ms B would lie 
and tell us shed not made the transactions when she had done so. Overall I think its most 
likely Ms B allowed these withdrawals to be made.
On this basis I wont be asking Santander to refund Ms B.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Bs complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman