DRN-2543369
The complaint
Ms C is complaining that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) hasnt handled a claim 
she made for accidental damage to her floor fairly.
What happened
Ms C spilt paint on her click fit laminate floor. She contacted RSA, which said that flooring 
would normally be covered under building insurance. It said Ms C only had contents 
insurance, which did include cover for her landlords fixtures and fittings, but the type of 
flooring she had was excluded. RSA wouldnt consider the claim.
Ms C brought her complaint to this service, and I issued my provisional thoughts to both 
parties in December 2020.
I said I thought RSA hadnt treated Ms C fairly. In summary I said that Ms Cs policy 
specifically excluded click fit laminate flooring from fixtures and fittings, and so from any 
buildings cover (not just the landlords fixtures and fittings). I thought most customers would 
expect such flooring to be covered by a home policy  so if it was excluded from the building 
part of the cover Id expect it to be covered in the contents section. I said I didnt think it was 
very clear where this type of flooring is covered  but if RSA didnt want to cover this type of 
flooring at all it should have made that clear. RSA hadnt done this, and in such 
circumstances its fair to interpret the terms and conditions in favour of the party that didnt 
write them  in this case Ms C.
I also said that, having looked the particulars of this complaint, I thought the flooring could be 
considered part of Ms Cs contents. I said that was because shes bought it, installed it and 
was able to remove it and take it with her if she moved. I also noted that this flooring wasnt 
attached to the building other than by some tacks holding a strip of beading to the skirting 
board  and that if there was any minor damage caused by its removal Ms C could repair it  
as shes required to do by her tenancy agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded. Ms C agrees with my conclusions.
RSA says that all laminate flooring  including click fit  is considered to be fixed and is 
therefore covered on buildings insurance. The point I made in my provisional decision was 
that this particular policy didnt cover click fit laminate under the buildings insurance  but 
RSA hasnt commented on the way it drafted the terms and conditions of the policy.
RSA goes on to say that laminate flooring (including click fit) once held in place by beading, 
becomes legally part of the structure of the building  and that it becomes a floor rather than 
a floor covering. Thats not quite the same argument RSA made previously, when it said 
removing the laminate would damage the structure of the building, and this was why it was 
deemed to be part of the fixtures and fittings.
RSA hasnt provided any supporting evidence to show me this type of flooring legally 
becomes part of the building once fitted. And I think its fair to say it makes a distinction 
between laminate flooring held in place by glue and click fit  because otherwise it wouldnt 
be able to exclude click fit flooring from its buildings cover.
Ive already given a summary of why I think Ms Cs flooring forms part of the contents of her 
home and RSAs recent statement doesnt persuade me I should change my thinking on this 
point.
Putting things right
RSA must put things right for Ms C by reconsidering her claim under the accidental damage 
part of her contents insurance, subject to any other relevant terms and conditions within her 
policy.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman