DRN-3374826
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have handled 
their home insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K found that a ground floor window wouldnt open and discovered some cracks 
in their property. After this had been investigated, it was found that a damaged underground 
pipe may have been the cause  with the ground and foundations being affected.
The pipe was fixed, and Mr and Mrs K claimed for the structural, or subsidence, damage to 
their property. RSA assessed the damage and while they agreed to some repairs, they said 
some of it wasnt subsidence related and some of what had been proposed by Mr and Mrs K 
wasnt necessary  in particular the rebuilding of brickwork beneath the ground floor window.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs K complained. RSA said they suspect the issue being 
experienced is the result of wall tie corrosion, which has happened over time, or a lack of 
wall ties due to the loose brickwork. They also said theyd identified defective lintels which 
affected two windows being replaced.
RSA said they couldnt provide cover for the lintels, but agreed to include the ground floor 
window due to the nature of the damage and its proximity to the defective pipe.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. They said the way RSA had proposed to replace the window 
wasnt possible and that when theyd spoken to contractors they told them part of the wall 
would need to be taken down and rebuilt.
Agreement couldnt be reached so Mr and Mrs K came to our service. An investigator here 
looked into the matter. They concluded that as RSAs schedule of work included the work
Mr and Mrs K wanted to be done, then its unreasonable for them not to follow that schedule.
Although she did agree with RSA that lintel damage didnt need to have been included in the 
schedule since Mr and Mrs K explained they didnt have them.
While Mr and Mrs K accepted the investigators opinion, RSA did not. RSA said the 
consumers contractors werent subsidence experts and that the cracking beneath the ground 
floor window wasnt typical of subsidence as there was no cracking to the internal walls.
Because of that, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear in this case that RSA accepted Mr and Mrs Ks claim, it is simply a dispute over 
which areas of the property require repair due to the subsidence. Properties will sometimes 
have damage from other causes which arent covered or are general maintenance.
But from what Ive seen, I think theres enough to say  on balance  that the repairs
Mr and Mrs K are seeking ought to be covered.
Mr and Mrs K provided a report which concluded The appearance and pattern of the 
cracking is consistent with a slight downward movement of the foundation to the front left 
corner of the house. That is to say that the foundations at this point have subsided. And 
while RSA may say theyre not experts, the company that completed this reports website 
says they have particular expertise in subsidence.
The report also identified some minor internal cracking above and below the ground floor 
window in the reception [front] room.
Because of this Im not persuaded, from what Ive seen, that the brickwork is a maintenance 
issue as RSA has suggested.
I also note that the schedule of works prepared for RSA says Damage to brick work under 
front window this has become lose (sic) and will need to be taken down and rebuilt. I note 
that RSA has suggested the schedule was based on what one of the consumers contractors 
had set out and therefore (presumably) hadnt been fully thought through.
I dont think its likely that someone preparing a schedule for substantial repair work would 
do that. Particularly as the schedule provided to RSA followed a visit to the property, so they 
will have been able to assess the damage in person. I think the person who assessed the 
damage concluded the damaged brickwork was covered and that repairs to it were 
necessary.
Overall, theres sufficient evidence for me to conclude that Mr and Mrs Ks property was 
damaged by subsidence, and therefore the repairs required to put that right need to be 
included in the claim settlement.
Putting things right
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to include the cost of taking down and 
rebuilding the damaged wall beneath the ground floor window  to then allow for a 
replacement window  in the settlement of Mr and Mrs Ks claim.
I understand Mr and Mrs K would like a cash settlement, so RSA ought to add interest at the 
rate of 8% per annum simple from the date of loss to the date payment is issued.
HM Revenue and Customs requires RSA to deduct tax from this interest. RSA must give
Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman