DRN-3066939
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lex Autolease Ltd continued to charge rental on two lease agreements, 
even though the leases had come to an end and he was no longer using the vehicles.  
What happened
In January 2016 Mr E took two commercial vehicles under three year leases from Lex 
Autolease. 
The terms of each lease were similar. They both gave Mr E the option of selling the vehicle 
concerned during the terms of the lease or when it ended and accounting to Lex Autolease. 
Alternatively, Mr E could return the vehicle at the end of the three year term. 
In October 2019, a few months before the leases were due to end, Lex Autolease wrote to 
Mr E to remind him of his options. They were, in each case, to sell the vehicle as agent for 
Lex Autolease or to return it. 
Mr E says that he chose to sell each of the vehicles. He says that he told Lex Autolease 
what was happening but that it did not provide the necessary paperwork for sales to go 
ahead. 
Mr E complained to Lex Autolease in July 2019. It noted that it had failed to return calls to Mr 
E on two occasions, for which it offered some compensation, but otherwise did not agree 
that it had done anything wrong. It sent Mr E a final response on 5 September 2019  telling 
him that its own investigation was complete and that, if he wanted to refer the matter to this 
service, he would need to do so within six months. 
This services records show that Mr E referred the matter to us on 9 March 2020  that is, a 
few days outside the six-month limit. Our investigator initially expressed the view that we 
could not consider the complaint, because it had been referred too late. Mr E explained that 
the delay had been the result of a family bereavement. 
One of my ombudsman colleagues took the view however that the complaint Mr E had 
referred to us was slightly different from that which had been addressed in the letter of 5 
September 2019. The complaint was that Lex Autolease should not have charged further 
rental for the vehicles  in the first case from January to July 2019 and in the other from 
January to December 2019. We did have power to look at that complaint. 
The investigator therefore considered this aspect of the complaint but concluded that the 
lease terms required Mr E to continue to make rental payments until the vehicle concerned 
was returned. They did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr E did not accept 
the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did and for broadly the same reasons. 
The investigator explained that the way in which Lex Autolease handled the sale of the 
vehicles had not been included in the investigation, because that part of the complaint had 
been referred to us outside the six month time limit. I agree with that assessment. 
In my view the lease agreements were clear in saying that: 
Mr E could sell the vehicle during the term of the lease or any extension of it [clause 
13(b)];
if no sale had occurred by the end of the lease term, either the vehicle should be 
returned or the hiring would continue and Mr E would continue to have to pay rental 
[clause 13(c)]. 
There was no provision for Mr E to keep the vehicles (or either of them) and not pay for 
them. That was the case even if he was trying to complete a sale and even if he was not 
using the vehicle. 
For these reasons I agree with the investigators assessment.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Lex Autolease Limited to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman