DRN-3752736
The complaint
Mr N feels that American Express Services Europe Limited has treated him unfairly about a 
number of transactions on his credit card to purchase flights.
What happened
Mr N used his American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex for short) to book weekly 
short haul flights for his work. Hed book up to a year in advance in order to secure the best 
value for these weekly flights. With the arrival of the pandemic he asked the airline to look 
into which refunds he was entitled to. Later, dissatisfied with the airlines position he asked 
Amex to look into his dispute with the airline on these numerous transactions. 
Mr N has recouped a significant amount of money both through direct contact with the airline 
and also through Amex. But he feels he hasnt received all the money back, so he 
complained to Amex. Amex then crossed referenced all of Mr Ns disputes with all the 
transactions on his card and the outcomes of the disputes with the airline. It then told Mr N 
that it had no persuasive evidence hed suffered a loss which Amex should redress. So Mr N 
complained here.
Our Investigator concluded that there was no persuasive evidence that Mr N was unfairly out 
of pocket due to what Amex had done. But Mr N doesnt agree. So this complaint comes to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should add that this decision is solely about Amex and how it considered Mr Ns dispute 
with the airline. The airline is not within my remit and I cannot decide on its behaviour. The 
test is here whether Amex has treated Mr N fairly in its consideration of his dispute with the 
airline. I hope I have made this crucial distinction clear.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) sets out the requirements for a successful 
Section 75 claim to a creditor (such as Amex here). This includes conditions regarding 
financial limits of the claim. When considering a section 75 claim Amex has to satisfy itself 
that the financial limits condition was met and then it needs to consider whether the airline 
has breached the contract or misrepresented the contract. The financial limits requirement is 
that a single item has to cost more than £100 and less than £30,000. I note that after much 
correspondence between the parties Mr N has accepted that all but three of the relevant 
transactions are no longer in dispute. All of these three transactions are less than £100. 
Accordingly Im satisfied that Amex has nothing more to consider with regard to these 
transactions from a S75 perspective bearing in mind everything that has been said by the 
parties here. 
Could Amex have done more under Chargeback?
Mr Ns credit card is part of a card network. And this network has rules which includes giving 
Amex an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through the 
Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for consumers, nor does it 
provide any guarantee of success. And this is a mechanism for resolution of disputes 
between card holders and merchants which is decided solely on the basis of the network 
rules and the particular chargeback reasons set out in the network rules. This is in essence 
an internal process run by the network to resolve disputes. This service does consider 
raising a chargeback to be good practice if the card supplier considers the dispute has a 
reasonable prospect of success. 
Amex is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed or continue at 
any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. 
Its also worth noting that if Amex takes a chargeback to the final stage of the process, the 
card scheme makes the decision on the matter independently. So Mr Ns dispute could be 
taken to the final stage and Mr N could still not get his money back, with Amex having taken 
his chargeback as far as it could whilst it considered it had a reasonable prospect of 
success.
Originally there were in excess of forty transactions disputed. And I can see Mr N repeatedly 
raised new disputes with Amex, sometimes for transactions which hed already disputed. 
This, amongst other things, lead to an overall lack of clarity due to a mixture of more than 
one Amex dispute reference being allocated to the same transaction, confusion between 
parties as a result of some of the disputes being for similar or identical amounts and made 
on the same day and indeed some lack of clarity from the airline in response to many 
apparent similar or identical transactions and confusion regarding its reference numbers.
As Ive said, after much correspondence there are only three transactions which Mr N feels 
are in dispute. Under my oversight this service has again gone back to Amex about these 
specific transactions recently and I can see Amex has pointed to transactions being put in 
suspense and as Amex has said you can see the temporary credit being removed from the 
account after the customer credit has been processed. As such, all transactions have been 
billed or refunded correctly.
I can also see that in all three cases Amex raised a chargeback with the airline. 
In one case the airline has responded with a refund in good faith. In one case Amex took the 
chargeback to an advanced stage of the chargeback process and in the other case it took it 
to the final stage of the Chargeback process. So having looked at these individual issues 
and Amexs evidence on this, Im satisfied that it has treated Mr N fairly by properly taking all 
the chargebacks forward whilst they had a reasonable prospect of success.
I also appreciate that Mr N points to apparent inconsistency with these disputes and over the 
broader disputes here. But I can also see that Amexs treatment of transactions, particularly 
those which are in suspense can be confusing. I can also see there is evidence of Mr N 
being credited directly, as opposed to through his card, which I can imagine doesnt make 
matters as clear as it could be. And I am aware that the airline has issued credit directly to 
Mr N including vouchers which have been highlighted by the airline in its chargeback 
responses, which Amex only knows about through these chargeback responses. And just 
because there is an apparent inconsistency as Mr N points to, it doesnt necessarily mean 
that hes lost out.
I should also make clear that Mr N pointing to not being fully refunded isnt persuasive 
evidence that Amex has done anything wrong. The test in these cases is whether Amex 
treated Mr N fairly as a result of the chargeback responses it received from the airline and then whether it has been amending or not amending his card account accordingly. I see that 
Amex has explained that although there is an apparent issue with inconsistent airline 
references, such references are not material because The specific transaction raised is then 
sent to the Merchant, and they provide further clarity on the individual charges. In essence 
its saying its identifying transactions is not by way of the airline reference but through the 
specific transaction and its specific ID.
Ive considered Mr Ns representations and although he has pointed to apparent 
discrepancies Ive considered Amexs taking the chargebacks forward through the process, 
the responses of the airline and Amexs responses to both our and Mr Ns questions and Im 
not persuaded that Amex has treated Mr N unfairly, as Mr N hasnt shown hes lost out due 
to what Amex did. 
So I dont think Amex has done anything sufficiently wrong which requires remedy. I say this 
because Im not persuaded Mr N has shown on balance that hes actually lost out. I 
appreciate that this isnt a decision Mr N wishes to read. However Im not persuaded Amex 
has treated him unfairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to not uphold Mr Ns complaint against 
American Express Services Europe Limited. It has nothing further to do here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman