DRN-3855562
The complaint
Mr D complains about Zurich Assurance Limited. He says that Zurich has informed him that 
when he transferred his pension to another business, the transfer value was too low. This is 
because Zurich has incorrectly applied the plan charges. Zurich has discovered this error 
and has paid Mr D compensation. Mr D thinks it hasnt calculated the compensation 
correctly. 
What happened
Mr D held a Pension Plan with Zurich. In January 2014 this plan was transferred to a third-
party provider. Mr D transferred £418,131.63 and then took a tax-free cash withdrawal of 
£104,532.91. Mr D made a smaller withdrawal in September 2021.
In February 2022 Zurich wrote to Mr D as part of a remediation scheme. It explained that it 
had made a mistake in the amount it transferred from Mr Ds pension plan and the amount 
was lower than it should have been. This is because it had calculated the annual 
management charges incorrectly and it had effectively overcharged Mr D for a significant 
time. 
Zurich calculated that if it had correctly applied the charges his policy would have been worth 
more in 2014 when he transferred it. It said his plan transfer value should have been 
£16,612.60 higher. It added interest to this and deducted basic rate tax from the interest. 
Giving a total payment to Mr D of £17,072.28. 
Mr D complained in 2022 to Zurich about the calculation of the loss he had suffered. He 
explained that if this increased fund had been invested in his new pension arrangement it 
would have increased more than the interest that Zurich had added. And he would have 
been able to take a greater amount of tax-free cash in 2021. So, he didnt think the 
compensation was adequate. He also thought that he should be provided with a significant 
payment for the distress and inconvenience this issue had caused him. 
Zurich agreed that Mr Ds compensation payment should be increased. It added interest at 
0.35% less than the Bank of England base rate to the increased transfer value of 
£16,6012.60 and deducted basic rate tax from the interest. Giving a total payment to him of 
£18,225.60. But this still wasnt close to the amount that Mr D thought he should receive. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator looked into it, and Ive seen the 
correspondence between all the parties up to when he issued his opinion. I note that, in very 
broad terms, our Investigator initially thought that compensation should be based on the 
investment growth that Mr D would have received if he had transferred a higher amount into 
his new pension plan. It should reflect his tax position, and the increased amount of tax-free 
cash, he would have been able to take. 
Our Investigator went on to uphold the complaint. He said that the remediation scheme that 
Zurich has started to address this problem was reasonable overall. But it should have taken 
a different approach for Mr Ds circumstances. He agreed that a cash repayment was 
reasonable given the complications that can exist paying into a personal pension, particularly 
where some benefits have been taken. And the arrangements that Zurich has said it made 
with HRMC itself in respect of this. But in broad terms he said that Mr D should receive 
compensation based on: 
A payment of £4,4153.15 to reflect the increased tax-free cash that that Mr D could 
have taken on 10 January 2014. Interest of 8% simple should be added this from the 
10 January 2014 to the date of payment. 
The remaining £12,459.45 should be increased by the investment growth that Mr D 
would have received had it been invested in the same way the other benefits he 
transferred out were. This was a range of funds on the Transact platform. 
A payment of £150 for the distress and inconvenience that this had caused Mr D. 
Some adjustments for the notional tax that Mr D would pay when the pension would 
become payable. 
Zurich agreed to what our investigator said. 
Mr D largely agreed but he thought that the settlement date should be 9 February 2022. This 
is when he should have received the correct remediation payment. And the compensation 
now has to be paid in cash rather than into his pension, and so it is effectively a withdrawal 
at this point. And this would reflect this position Mr D would now be in if it had fairly put right 
the error at this time. Interest should be added from 9 February 2022 to the date of payment 
at the rate of 8% simple. 
Our Investigator agreed that this was reasonable, given that Zurich now says it cannot pay 
Mr Ds compensation into his new pension arrangements. 
Zurich didnt agree with using the settlement date of 9 February 2022. This is because Mr D 
hasnt taken the benefits from his pensions and so it shouldnt be assumed that he would 
have taken this money early. It puts Mr D in a better position that he would have been in had 
it acted correctly. 
There was some further correspondence, but the Investigator wasnt persuaded to change 
their opinion, and Zurich didnt agree. So, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its not disputed that Zurichs error has caused Mr D a loss. And what is reasonable 
compensation has been broadly agreed. The remaining issue to decide is whether the loss 
should be crystallised at 9 February 2022. This is when Zurich informed Mr D about the 
error and took steps to correct it. 
Zurich thinks that Mr Ds investment loss should be calculated to the date of the loss 
payment. This is because if it had transferred the correct amount this would be a more accurate estimate of the monetary loss he has suffered. It thinks using an end date to the 
loss of 9 February 2022 potentially overcompensates Mr D. 
The correct way to put Mr D back into the position he would have been in would be to firstly 
reconstruct his Zurich pension plan at the date of transfer to reflect the value it would have 
had if the charges been applied correctly. Zurich seems to have done this. 
Zurich should then go to Mr Ds current provider and find out what his current pension would 
be worth if this amount been transferred to it in 2014. It should make a payment to Mr Ds 
current provider to bring his fund up to this level. This could be different from the investment 
loss incurred due to charges and so on, if only by a modest amount. 
Zurich has said that its taken guidance from its own taxation specialists and has contacted 
HRMC about the taxation of the remediation scheme. Because of this, it now says that it will 
only pay a cash settlement, rather than take steps to make a payment into one of Mr Ds 
pension plans. And this is further complicated by the fact that the initial compensation has 
been paid to Mr D and Zurich says HMRC would now consider this to be an unauthorised 
payment into a pension plan. Zurich says that Mr D will not be disadvantaged by this. But 
overall, I dont disagree that it now may be complicated to make a payment to Mr Ds 
pension plan. 
I appreciate that Zurich did feel it was right to compensate its customers using a remediation 
scheme. And this may have been the best solution overall. But this doesnt mean that Zurich 
must always pay compensation in this way, especially when it isnt entirely right. And its 
clear here that if Mr D accepts a cash payment, he wont be completely put back in the 
position he would be in had Zurich acted correctly. And this isnt entirely fair.
And it does seem there is an element here of Zurich saying that Mr D should be subject to 
the investment risk that increasing his new pension would be subject to. Whilst at the same 
time saying it cant pay into his pension, which disadvantages him. This doesnt seem 
reasonable to me. 
He will be put back in a similar position to how he should be in monetary terms. And he will 
be able to use the compensation as he sees fit. But accepting a cash payment is still a 
compromise on Mr Ds part. He says because of this he wants the certainty of the value of 
the compensation calculated as at the 9 February 2022. With interest added from that date 
until payment. I dont think this is unfair, on the face of it. 
Zurich says that this may overcompensate Mr D. Its not provided detail of why this is, but Im 
assuming its reasoning would be that if his current pension arrangements have fallen in 
value from 9 February 2022, the compensation may give him a higher monetary amount. 
I accept this may be the case. Although, whether this advantages Mr D wont really be 
known until the compensation is paid. And investment markets have shown some 
uncertainty recently, its this uncertainty that Mr D wants to avoid. I dont think its 
unreasonable to treat the compensation as essentially a withdrawal taken on 9 February 
2022 as he says. Albeit one he didnt ask for.  
Given all the circumstances of this case I dont think its unreasonable that the compensation 
is based on a crystallisation date of 9 February 2022. My decision is that the compensation 
should be paid on this basis. 
Zurichs initial offer was much lower than the amount Mr D had evidently lost. And even 
when Mr D provided evidence to show this was the case it only increased its offer by a small amount. The compensation Ive awarded is a fairly common way of putting this kind of 
problem right and it wont have been unfamiliar to Zurich. I dont see why it didnt move 
closer this kind of compensation much sooner. 
So, I agree that this issue has caused Mr D some distress and inconvenience when it 
shouldnt have. And that the £150 the Investigator recommended is reasonable to 
compensate for this. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr D fairly:
Zurich should pay Mr D £4,153.15 plus interest at the rate of 8% simple*. Interest 
should be applied from 10 January 2014 until the date of settlement. This is to 
compensate Mr D for the larger amount of tax-free cash he could have taken. 
Zurich should also determine what an investment of £12,459.45 would be worth as at 
9 January 2022 if it was invested on 10 January 2014 in Mr Ds new personal 
pension. If this value is greater than the initial investment, then this is the loss.  And 
Zurich should pay this increased amount to Mr D (that is the initial investment of 
£12,459.45 plus any growth it would have received until 9 February 2022). This 
should also be increased by interest at the rate of 8% simple* from 9 February 2022 
to the date of settlement.
If the actual the above calculation results in a lower amount then no compensation is 
payable for this element of the loss. 
Zurich says it is unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, so it 
should pay that amount directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, 
it would have provided a taxable income. The compensation calculated with 
reference to his new pension arrangements (that is not the tax-free cash) should 
therefore be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it 
isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr D wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction 
after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr 
D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
should equal 20%. 
Zurich should deduct any amounts already paid to Mr D as compensation and pay 
him the difference between the compensation calculated above and what he has 
already been paid.
Zurich should pay Mr D £150 for the distress and inconvenience this issue has 
caused him. 
Zurich should also provide the details of the calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
*Income tax may be payable on the 8% simple interest paid. If Zurich considers that it is
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tellMr D how much it has taken off. Zurich should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above. 
If Mr D accepts this decision, it becomes binding on Zurich Assurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman