DRN-4061213
The complaint
Miss S complains Solium Capital UK Limited (SCUK) failed to treat her fairly when she 
departed her employers share incentive plan (SIP). 
What happened
Miss S was enrolled in her employers SIP. Her employment was due to come to an end 
prior to the SIPs maturity date. 
A letter addressed to Miss S was uploaded to SCUKs online portal, informing her she had 
60 days to provide an instruction to either sell her shares or transfer them to another 
platform. The letter said that if she didnt give an instruction within 60 days, her shares would 
be sold and the cash value paid to her, net of any tax which might be due. 
Miss S recalls finding this letter confusing. And that she spoke to SCUK around the time she 
received it to question its contents. She recalls finding SCUK to be unhelpful. Miss S has 
said she was struggling with her health at the time and wasnt certain what action she should 
take. 
SCUKs deadline elapsed, and Miss S shares were sold. Miss S began complaining to 
SCUK when she realised whatd happened. She argued shed wanted to transfer the shares 
to a new provider, and the amount shed received was only a fraction of what her shares 
were worth at the time. She felt SCUK hadnt treated her fairly, especially as shed been in 
poor health. 
SCUK did not accept Miss S complaint. So she referred the matter to our service. 
On referral, SCUK argued Miss S complaint fell outside of our services jurisdiction. It felt 
that in the course of administering Miss S share incentive plan, it hadnt carried out a 
regulated activity. Therefore our service was prohibited from considering the merits of the 
complaint. 
I made the decision our service could consider Miss S complaint. A decision which both 
parties have appeared to accept. So our investigator proceeded to consider the merits of 
Miss S complaint. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. They were persuaded that at the outset, SCUK 
gave Miss S enough information for her to make an informed choice about what she could 
do with her accrued shares, and when she needed to do this by. Because of this, they felt it 
was fair of SCUK to have arranged for the sale of Miss S shares when it received no 
instruction from her prior to the deadline. 
However, it was also the investigators opinion that when Miss S had queried the sale of her 
shares, SCUKs service was at times poor. They felt Miss S wasnt provided with clear 
information about the amount shed received from the sale of her shares, and this unfairly 
led to her having to repeatedly chase SCUK for answers. Because of this, they 
recommended SCUK should pay Miss S a total of £150 for the trouble and upset itd caused. 
SCUK accepted our investigators opinion, but Miss S did not. Because of this, the complaint 
has been passed back to me to make a decision on its merits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator for essentially the 
same reasons. 
Ive reviewed the transcripts of Miss S early interactions with SCUK. These interactions took 
place whilst she still had time remaining to decide what she wanted to do with her shares. 
Im satisfied that, as regulations require, SCUK gave her information about her options and 
the upcoming deadline that was clear, fair and not misleading. I have no concerns with the 
service SCUK provided during these calls. Im therefore satisfied it was fair of SCUK to have 
arranged for Miss S shares to be sold when it received no instructions from her by the 
deadline itd specified. 
Having reviewed the events which followed the sale of Miss S shares, the evidence 
available persuades me SCUKs service was not always of a good standard. 
I understand Miss S was struggling with her health and dealing with upsetting personal 
circumstances at the time her shares were sold. From her perspective, she was upset that 
not only had the shares been sold, but that shed received far less from the sale than shed 
understood the shares were worth. 
As the administrator of her plan, I would expect that when confronted with Miss S concerns, 
it should not have been difficult for SCUK to explain the difference in value was a result of 
tax and national insurance deductions. And that these were applicable as Miss S had not 
been able to hold her plan for the full term. I would also expect SCUK to have met Miss S 
information needs by providing or directing her towards clear information about the 
deductions, such that she was able to reconcile the figures. 
What Ive found however is that, at the time, theres no evidence presented that Miss S was 
either given or signposted towards this sort of information. She recalls having to make a 
series of calls and emails chasing an answer, and I understand this was both stressful and 
an inconvenience to her. When considering what impact this is likely to have had on Miss S, 
and what should fairly and reasonably be done to acknowledge this impact, Ive taken into 
account the circumstances she was struggling with at the time. And Im satisfied these 
circumstances are likely to have made dealing with the situation much more difficult for her.  
In this case, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to require SCUK to pay Miss S a total of 
£150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the service Ive identified 
above. 
My final decision
My decision is that Solium Capital UK Limited must pay Miss S the sum of £150, less any 
amounts already paid as compensation arising from this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman