DRN-3875200
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Vitality Health Limited turned down a claim he made on a private medical 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D is insured under his employers private medical insurance policy. The policy includes 
optical benefit. In August 2022 Mr D purchased two pairs of sunglasses and sought 
reimbursement of the cost from Vitality. It agreed to refund the cost of an eye test but 
wouldnt pay for the sunglasses. That was because the policy only provided cover for one 
pair of prescription sunglasses. 
Our investigator agreed the claim had been correctly turned down and didnt think Mr D had 
been misinformed about what the policy would cover when he spoke to Vitality. Mr D didnt 
agree. He said there had been delay in Vitality responding to him and it didnt make clear 
that cover was only available for one pair of sunglasses. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Vitality has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy. The Your Benefits at a Glance 
section says it covers Sight tests and new prescription glasses or contact lenses supplied
by our network provider. Cover is provided for up to £500. The policy goes on to say:
Benefit is available for sight tests at a frequency recommended by your optometrist. It also 
includes new prescription glasses or contact lenses required following that sight test. For 
glasses, we will reimburse you for the cost of a single pair of frames, lenses (including 
bifocals or varifocals, where necessary), and lens modifications (coating, tinting or thinning). 
The cost of prescription sunglasses are eligible, but you will not also be able to claim for
a pair of regular glasses for the same prescription
I think its clear from that the policy covers one pair of prescription glasses (or prescription 
sunglasses). And the purchase receipt for Mr Ds order says it doesnt contain prescription 
sunglasses. 
Thats in line with the eye exam he provided which says no prescription was required. It does 
contain a handwritten comment from the optician saying sunglasses recommended to 
alleviate problems with bright lights. But I think its reasonable to say prescription glasses 
are ones which contain lenses specially made to correct a defect in the wearers vision. That 
doesnt apply here. So I think Vitality acted in line with the policy terms in turning down the 
claim Mr D made. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Vitality gave Mr D inaccurate information about this which 
caused him to make a decision (to purchase the sunglasses) he wouldnt otherwise have 
made. I dont think that is the case. During his call with Vitality the adviser directs him to the 
section of his online portal which provides information about the optical benefit provided by 
the policy. Mr D then quoted the section of the policy which refers to cover being provided for 
prescription glasses. Mr D also included that section of the policy in an email he sent to 
Vitality five days later which shows he was aware of it. 
Mr D says he wasnt told when he spoke to Vitality that the policy only covered one (rather 
than two) pairs of sunglasses. But he didnt raise that as a specific query in the calls Ive 
listened to. In any case I dont think thats the key issue here. For the reasons Ive explained 
I think Mr D should have been aware that his policy only covered prescription sunglasses 
when he made his purchase. Neither of the sunglasses he bought were prescription and its 
clear from the eye test he had this wasnt something he required. So I dont think Mr D could 
reasonably have thought the policy would cover these purchases at all. And I think Vitality 
acted fairly in turning down the claim he made. 
Mr D has also referenced a delay in being able to contact Vitality. However, while I 
understand he may have been on hold for some time prior to speaking to Vitality he did then 
get the assistance he was seeking. I appreciate that delay will nevertheless have been 
frustrating for him but, having considered the impact of that on him, I dont think theres 
anything Vitality needs to do to put things right in this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman