DRN-1269140
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc reduced the interest rate on his account after telling him it 
would not.
What happened
Mr P says he received an e-mail from TSB on 2 May 2018 telling him the interest rate on his 
account would increase to 5% and that it wouldn't be taken away after a year. He says on 8 
April 2019 TSB gave him notice that the interest rate would be reducing to 3% and this 
amounts to a broken promise. Mr P would like TSB to explain why it made a promise only to 
break it and says its e-mail was clear - that the 5% interest rate would continue.
TSB doesn't accept making a mistake and says the account terms and conditions allow it to 
make changes to the variable interest rate. It says an interest rate can't be offered for life 
and clarified what it said about that point in the media.
Mr P had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the account terms and conditions allowed TSB to vary the interest rate and didn't 
think the e-mail in question said the interest rate of 5% would continue indefinitely.
Mr P doesn't accept that view and says TSB made a promise then broke it. He says that 
promise counteracts what the terms and conditions say and maintain that TSB told him the 
interest would continue for ever. Mr P has told us that the issue is not a financial one but 
more about trust.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I've come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr P will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about what's taken place.
The investigator has explained that its not our role to supervise or regulate TSB and so I 
can't order it to for example to change its interest rates or  punish its behaviour.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr P would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I think those terms and conditions make clear that the 
account interest rate is variable and may change subject to notice. So I don't think TSB 
made a mistake by giving Mr P the appropriate notice that the interest rate would change in 
2019.
The key issue here is the e-mail Mr P received in 2018. I accept that Mr P took that e-mail to 
mean that the interest rate would not change in the future and I understand why he came to 
that conclusion. I have also considered comments that TSB told the media about that rate 
and again I can understand why a customer would reach the same conclusion that Mr P did. 
I accept that Mr P has not mentioned those comments and in any event TSB clarified them shortly after they were made. But I think the most important point here is regardless what the 
e-mail or media comments said, the terms and conditions allow  interest rate changes to be 
made.
I appreciate that Mr P says the e-mail had the effect of replacing the terms and conditions. I 
don't think that is the case and think that one interpretation of the e-mail could be that the 
interest rate would not be changed for a year. But I accept that TSB ought to have been far 
clearer in its correspondence with Mr P and made clear what its position was on the interest 
rate.
Overall whilst I don't think TSB made a mistake or acted unfairly by changing the interest 
rate. I appreciate Mr P's concerns and understand why he would reach the conclusions he 
did after reading TSB's e-mail of May 2018.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman