DRN-1152281
 
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the service Goodwin Barrett Ltd (GB) provided, and the fee they 
charged, when dealing with her mis-sold investment claims.
What happened
 In April 2019 Mrs R instructed GB to look into a number of claims for potentially mis-sold 
investments for her and her late husband. GB made the claims on Mrs Rs behalf and a 
claim against Investment Provider L was successful in July. So GB invoiced for their fee.
Mrs R has complained that, when she contacted GB, she felt over whelmed and railroaded 
into making the claims straight away. Shes also said the comments made by the courier 
pressurised her into making the claims; and if shed known about the cancellation policy 
shed have cancelled and dealt with the claims herself. Mrs R has also complained that the 
fee charged by GB was disproportional as only one claim was dealt with.
Our investigator found that GB had acted reasonably. She felt GB had made the process 
clear and didnt pressurise Mrs R into using their services. She also felt that GB had made 
the claim against Investment Provider L as instructed, and this resulted in the claim being 
successful. Because of this, she felt GB were entitled to charge their fee and she didnt think 
they should do anything more.
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said GB only made one claim for her, not all 
the claims she asked them to make. She feels that if GB had only told her they were making 
one claim she wouldve cancelled the agreement and done all the claims herself.
Mrs R also feels that she shouldnt have been rushed, and shouldve been given time to 
consider what GB would charge and what they would do for their fee. And she thinks the fee 
is totally unreasonable for the work they did. Mrs R has also said that, in their final complaint 
response letter, GB admitted theyd let her down.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between GB and Mrs R that took place on 30 April 2019. During this 
call they obtained the details needed from Investment Provider L so this claim could 
proceed. But with the other claims, GB told Mrs R that they would need to write to the 
Investment Providers to get the details they needed before any claims could be made.
GB also explained that a courier would visit Mrs R the following day with two sets of 
paperwork  one set to sign, one set to keep. While Mrs R said she was feeling a bit 
swamped with everything, Ive heard nothing to show that GB were pressuring her to use their services. Mrs R sounded happy to do so and also said shed use GB again for any new 
claims she may have.
Ive seen that Mrs R signed GBs terms and conditions to agree to their services. While the 
signature is dated 30 April, looking at the timeline Im satisfied she actually signed these 
when the courier visited her on 1 May. As the courier firm is an independent company to GB, 
I cant comment on what may or may not have been said to Mrs G by the courier.
Ive also seen that GBs terms said Mrs R had the right to cancel the agreement within 14 
days at no cost. She could also cancel after 14 days, but if GB have submitted your claim, 
and an offer of compensation is subsequently made, we will charge our full fee. There was 
no charge if any claim was unsuccessful, before or after cancellation; and GBs fees were 
clearly shown along with examples of how these would be calculated.
The terms also said I am aware that I can pursue a claim for a mis-sold investment myself 
directly with my bank or financial advisor and use the free services of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (FOS) to do so.
Im satisfied that GB made their terms clear to Mrs R, and shed signed to confirm she 
accepted these. If Mrs R had felt pressured or rushed into instructing GB she had the 14 day 
cooling off period to consider their services and fees, and she couldve cancelled within this 
period at no cost. 
But Mrs R didnt cancel the claims until July 2019, after the claim with Investment Provider L 
was successful. At the point she cancelled, GB were still obtaining the details they needed 
from the other Investment Providers to be able to make the remaining claims. So I cant 
agree that they only dealt with one claim for her  they were dealing with all of her claims, 
but theyd only been able for submit one of these to the Investment Providers.
GB also charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be 
done for free. Where a claim was successful, GBs fee may be more or less than the value of 
the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just 
because GBs fee is higher than the value of the work theyve done for Mrs R doesnt make 
their fee unreasonable or unjustified. So I cant say this should be reduced or waived.
Ive also looked at the complaint response GB sent to Mrs L. GB said they couldve been 
clearer that some of the claims could take longer than others, and I agree with this. But GB 
started the claims process for Mrs R and they havent charged her for the work they did on 
these claims. So I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Goodwin Barrett 
Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman