DRN-3873662
The complaint
Miss F complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited provided her with a poor service 
after she made a claim under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss F had a car accident on 3 September 2022 when she went into the rear of another car 
that braked suddenly in front of her. She says that a third-party car braked in front of that car 
causing the accident. 
When Miss F reported it to her insurer, they advised that as she had gone into the rear of the 
car in front, they would accept liability, and they later advised that the car would be written 
off. 
Miss F complained about the decision on the fault liability, the write off decision being made 
without Admiral seeing the car, the time taken to log the claim, failure to provide a courtesy 
car, the length of time the claim took, not receiving call backs or being able to contact the 
team, having to take out breakdown cover, and delays in being sent an estimate. 
 
Admiral partially upheld the complaint and paid Miss F £330 compensation for the poor 
service,  comprising of £30 refund for phone calls, £150 for distress and inconvenience, and 
£150 for loss of use of her vehicle from 3  17 October 2022 due to the delays in dealing 
with the claim.   
Miss F was unhappy with Admirals response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Fs complaint but thought that Admirals offer was 
fair.  
Miss F disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Admiral have acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the terms of the policy when dealing with Miss Fs claim.
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Miss F and Admiral.  However, Im not 
upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
Dispute of Liability
Miss F disputed her liability for the accident from the outset and that she felt that she was the 
victim of a deliberate accident. Admiral didnt initially take any action to investigate this and 
advised her that as she had gone into the rear of the car in front, they would be accepting 
liability.  I can understand why Miss F was upset about this as she felt she wasnt being 
believed. However, I can see that following her complaint, Admiral have now made the 
referral to the right team to investigate further and so Im satisfied that they have resolved 
this aspect of the complaint, and some of the distress and inconvenience paid is in response 
to this aspect of the complaint.  
Settling the claim without seeing the vehicle
Miss F didnt think that Admiral should make the decision to write off her car without seeing it 
first. I can understand why she felt like this. However, Admiral can make a decision under 
the terms of the policy to settle claim as they see fit. When the car is a low value and the 
stated damage is extensive it may not be necessary to see the car to make that decision and 
the engineers may be able to make that assessment from photographic evidence. So, I dont 
think that they have acted unreasonably here. I can also see that they have offered Miss F 
the option of getting a quote for the repairs herself. 
Time taken to log the claim, the length of time the claim took, not receiving call backs 
or being able to contact the team and delays in getting the estimate
These customer service failings have all been accepted by Admiral, and they agree that the 
level of service provided isnt what Miss F was entitled to expect. They have offered £150 for 
these plus £150 for the loss of use caused by the delay in dealing with the claim. I see from 
the claim notes that there was delay of three days in logging the claim and there were further 
delays instructing the approved repairer, which overall has created a delay of two weeks in 
the settlement being offered, taking into account how long it should have taken. I think that 
the compensation of £150 for loss of use for those two weeks, plus £150 for the overall 
customer service failings  including not making the initial referral to look into liability - is fair 
for this level of overall delay. 
Courtesy Car
The policy held by Miss F doesnt provide cover for a courtesy car while waiting for an 
assessment of damage to be completed. Once a vehicle is deemed repairable a courtesy 
car is provided whilst the repair is being undertaken. So, there was no obligation on Admiral 
to provide a courtesy car in this case as after assessment, the car was deemed a write off. 
Admiral have, however, provided compensation for loss of use of her car for the two weeks 
delay in dealing with the claim which I think is fair. 
Breakdown cover
Miss F took the decision to drive the vehicle while assessment of the claim was in progress, 
and the car was deemed drivable, so any breakdown cover needed would be entirely at her 
discretion. I can also see that Miss F already has breakdown cover included as part of her 
insurance policy, so I cant see why additional cover was necessary. 
I can appreciate that it must have been very frustrating for Miss F having to deal with a claim 
arising from an accident that she didnt consider was her fault, and I understand that she will 
have wanted matters resolved quickly. However, having reviewed the above, whilst I agree 
that the service fell short of what she was entitled to expect, I think the payment of 
compensation made by Admiral is fair.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint, and I will not therefore be 
asking Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman