DRN-3430060
The complaint
Mr C says Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a fixed term loan taken out by Mr C in May 2017 with Everyday 
Loans. The loan was for £5000 and Mr C agreed to repay over 48 months.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought Everyday Loans shouldnt have 
provided the loan. He concluded that Everyday Loans didnt make a fair lending decision 
based on the information it had in front of it. Everyday Loans disagreed and the complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Cs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr C would be able to repay loans in a sustainable way and without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Everyday Loans wouldve been able 
to do so?
2. Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr C ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for Mr 
C. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Everyday Loans has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr C it asked him for 
information about his income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check and obtained 
2 months worth of bank statements. Before it agreed to give Mr C this loan, it also verified 
his income by requesting payslips. Based on those checks Everyday Loans thought it was 
fair to lend.
Mr C was entering into a significant commitment with Everyday Loans. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of 4 years. So, I think it is right that Everyday Loans 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Cs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think Everyday Loans checks were proportionate. 
Did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
I have concluded Everyday Loans made proportionate checks. But simply performing 
proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react appropriately to the 
information those checks show. Those results might sometimes lead a lender to undertake 
further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some cases, the results might 
lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. This is what I think Everyday Loans 
should have done with this loan.
Everyday Loans obtained bank statements from Mr C when he applied for his first loan. It 
gathered two months worth. On these statements there are many transactions going in and 
out of his account from short term loan and payday loan providers. Mr C was, within these statements, borrowing from 6 different short-term finance providers. He was lending and 
repaying from these companies on a regular basis during a short space of time and I think 
there is enough here in the statements that Everyday Loans had in front of it, for me to draw 
a conclusion that Mr C was in a cycle of debt and was borrowing in order to repay what he 
owed. I think the transactions to and from short term lenders on his statements, show that Mr 
C was having problems managing his finances at that time and on seeing this Everyday 
Loans shouldnt have made a decision to lend to him. Everyday Loans has recently told our 
service that it asked Mr C about this and then accepted his answer, which was that he had 
serious problems with his car. But I dont think Everyday Loans reacted appropriately to the 
information it had in front of it. The sheer number of short term loans that he took out leading 
up to him asking for a loan with it, ought to have given Everyday Loans serious concerns 
about Mr Cs finances and his ability to repay this loan in a sustainable way.
In conclusion, I dont think, based on what Everyday Loans had in front of it, that it should 
have given Mr C this loan. 
Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Loans 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right for Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman