DRN-2560765
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Society of Lloyd's (SoL) is only paying a proportion of their 
home insurance claim.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a buildings and contents policy with SoL through a broker. In 2020, 
their house was flooded after a storm, and they made a claim to SoL.
SoL instructed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. They reported back to SoL but raised 
concern about the construction of Mr and Mrs Cs property. Mr and Mrs C had stated it was 
made entirely of brick, stone or concrete when that wasnt the case. 
SoL decided to proportionally settle Mr and Mrs Cs claim as it didnt think theyd taken 
reasonable care in answering its question about the construction of the property. It said had 
it know the correct information, that the property was built with timber and brick, it would 
have charged them1 more for the policy. So, it considered this to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to proportionally settle their claim. 
 
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He followed the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) to give his view. In it he explained he was satisfied the question Mr and Mrs C had 
been asked was clear and the answer that was given was incorrect.  Had SoL been aware of 
the correct information, based on the relevant law, it was entitled to proportionally settle his 
claim.
 
Mr and Mrs C dont agree with the investigator and have asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. Theyve explained that it was the broker that mis keyed the information when 
applying for the policy and they had correctly represented the construction of the property to 
the broker. Theyve stressed the incorrect information wasnt given deliberately and they feel 
they are being penalised for an error.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
SoL thinks Mr and Mrs C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they declared their property was made entirely of brick, stone or concrete, when taking 
out the policy. 
Ive looked at the question set out on the statement of fact which is:
Is the main property to be insured constructed exclusively of brick, stone or concrete and 
roofed exclusively with slate, tiles, metal or concrete?.
Mr and Mrs Cs property is not made exclusively of one of these materials and therefore the 
correct answer to the question should have been no, not yes as Mr and Mrs C answered. As 
such, I agree Mr and Mrs C failed to take reasonable care when answering this question. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C have said a broker inputted the details and therefore it wasnt 
their mistake. However, the broker was representing them when it placed the policy. And as 
such the insurer is entitled to treat the information provided by the broker as being as if it 
were provided by Mr and Mrs C.
SoL has said had it known the correct information it would have charged Mr and Mrs C a 
higher premium for the different aspects of their policy. It has provided commentary from the 
underwriter which confirms the total premium would have been around £300 higher. So, Im 
satisfied a qualifying misrepresentation was made for the purposes of CIDRA.
SoL has said Mr and Mrs Cs misrepresentation was careless which I think is reasonable. It 
is the option that provides the most favourable remedy to the consumer.  
As Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Cs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked 
at the actions SoL can take in accordance with CIDRA. Where a claim has been made and a 
qualifying misrepresentation is to be treated as careless, CIDRA provides that if an insurer 
would have charged an increased premium, it can settle a claim on a proportionate basis.  
As SoL has done this, I think it has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. I wont 
therefore be asking it to do anything more here. 
SoL offered Mr and Mrs C £50 compensation for the fact it didnt communicate with them in 
a timely manner. Having reviewed everything, I think this is a fair and reasonable amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Society of Lloyd's. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman