The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of furniture he bought using a fixed sum loan with
Ikano Bank AB.
What happened
Mr D used a fixed sum loan with Ikano Bank AB (Ikano) to purchase two sofas from a
retailer.
He says he made it clear to the salesperson that he had a young family and cats and
needed the items to be robust enough to suit his circumstances.
Mr D isn't happy with the quality of the sofas. The fabric used to cover them has snagged
and pulled. Some of the seams have burst. And the footstool broke.
Mr D also took out a warranty when he bought the sofas. After the sofas were inspected,  Mr 
D was offered a replacement from the same retailer or a cash settlement at half the price of 
the original purchase.
Mr D has made a separate complaint about that offer, which I won't be considering here. But
he says the goods were unsatisfactory at the point of purchase and so he wants Ikano to
provide him with a full refund.
Mr D complained to Ikano. They said they couldn't determine what was said when Mr D
bought the sofas, so they wouldn't provide a refund.
Mr D wasn't happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didn't think Ikano had done anything wrong. She said Mr D had been supplied with
serviceable and functional sofas. And there was no evidence about what was said between
Mr D and the salesperson when Mr D bought the sofas.
Mr D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigator and thought the complaint should be upheld, I 
issued a provisional decision before making my final decision. This gave both Mr D and 
Ikano a further chance to comment and/or offer further information or evidence before I 
make my final decision, which is this service's last word on the matter.  
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
DRN-1851044Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There's no dispute in this case that Mr D's purchase of the sofas is covered under the
Consumer Rights Act 2015.
This says that goods must be of satisfactory quality at the time of purchase, otherwise 
the consumer is entitled to certain remedies.
The Act also says the goods supplied should be fit for the particular purpose intended 
by the consumer. So, in other words, if the consumer says they intend to use the 
goods for a particular purpose, or in a particular way, the goods should be fit for them 
to do so.
Mr D says he told the salesperson when he bought the sofas that he had a young 
family - and pets - and the sofas needed to be durable and fit for use in such an 
environment.
It appears from the inspection report - and from other evidence Mr D provides - that 
the sofas weren't really suitable for the circumstances he says he described to the 
salesperson.
For example, they're covered with a looped fabric which appears not to be suitable for 
a household with cats and/or young children.
I don't think there's any dispute around the facts of this case except when it comes to 
what Mr D said when he was considering the purchase of the sofas.
My decision hinges on this point. If Mr D explained his circumstances and asked for 
sofas robust enough to suit the environment he says he described, then the goods 
he's been supplied with were not fit for that purpose at the point of sale. And Mr D is 
entitled to a refund. If he didn't, then Ikano can't be expected to refund Mr D for what 
was essentially a mistake on his part.
Unsurprisingly, there is no recording of the conversation between Mr D and the 
salesperson. And there's no note of what was said - or any subsequent 
communication confirming it.
That being the case, I have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
In this case, Mr D says he specifically recollects the conversation and is certain he
mentioned his particular requirements. Ikano say they can't determine what was said. 
They don't say Mr D didn't make his requirements clear. They say they can't confirm 
what he said.
That being the case, I think on balance it's more likely that Mr D did mention his
circumstances and his specific requirements to the salesperson. I also have to bear in 
mind that Mr D purchased an extended warranty to cover the sofas, which would seem 
to suggest that the durability of the goods was in the forefront of his mind when he 
made the purchase.
On balance then, I believe what Mr D tells us about the conversation at the time of 
purchase. And so I think he's entitled to a refund from Ikano.I'm also minded to ask Ikano to compensate Mr D for his trouble and upset. He's not 
been able to use and enjoy the sofas for a period of time. He's had the stress and 
worry of thinking he may not get a refund. And he's suffered a degree of 
inconvenience in following this up with Ikano.
Given the degree of trouble and upset suffered by Mr D, I think £100 compensation 
would be appropriate.
 
The responses to my provisional decision
Not surprisingly, Mr D told us he agrees with my provisional decision.
In light of the circumstances surrounding the coronavirus outbreak, we extended the time for 
Ikano to respond to my provisional decision significantly. And we contacted them - and/or 
attempted to do so - on several occasions.
They did finally respond with their comments. They agree there's no way to prove what was 
or wasn't said when Mr D bought his sofas. Though they think Mr D's purchase of an 
extended warranty could be argued to suggest that he may have been warned about 
durability at the time of purchase. 
They point out that the sofas aren't faulty due to any manufacturing defect - but 
have become so only due to the circumstances in which they've been used. And Mr D likely 
picked the sofas on personal preference.
And they say any fabric sofa may have been unsuitable for a home with cats. They don't say 
so explicitly, but I think they're likely implying Mr D ought to have known better than to buy 
fabric sofas given his circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And I've considered the further comments 
Ikano have made in response to my provisional decision.
I haven't changed my mind. I think everyone would agree there's no way to determine 
conclusively what was said when Mr D bought the sofas. So I have to make a decision 
based on what's most likely to have happened. I have no reason to doubt Mr D's assertion 
that he made his requirements and circumstances clear - and there's no evidence at all to 
the contrary.
I'm sure Ikano are right to say Mr D bought the sofas on the basis of his personal preference 
- that almost goes without saying. But I'm not sure that adds anything to the argument. 
Mr D liked the sofas and wanted to buy them. He says he wasn't warned they might not be 
suitable given the circumstances he says he outlined to the salesperson. And I have no 
evidence or testimony to suggest he didn't make his circumstances clear. 
I'm pretty sure Mr D wouldn't have bought the sofas on the basis of their aesthetic appeal if 
he thought for a minute they would inevitably be damaged by his cats and/or children. 
And I am aware this is not a manufacturing fault. As I said in my provisional decision, Mr D 
has a right to a refund - even if the sofas are perfectly good, durable sofas for most 
circumstances - if he intended to use them in particular circumstances and  he made that clear when he bought them.
Nothing Ikano have said suggests Mr D wasn't clear about his requirements when he bought 
the sofas. Indeed, they agree there's no further information or evidence they can provide to 
call into question Mr D's recollection of his conversation with the salesperson. 
So on that basis, I'm not going to change my provisional decision and I'm still going to 
uphold Mr D's complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision. Ikano Bank AB must:
provide Mr D will a full refund for the sofas; and
pay Mr D £100 for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman