DRN-3471296
The complaint
Miss S entered into a 180-month fixed sum loan agreement in 2007 with a financial services 
provider. This provider sold the agreement in 2014 to Cabot Credit Management Group 
Limited trading as Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited. Cabot subsequently assigned 
management of this agreement to an agent.  
Miss S complains that offers she made in 2021 to settle the outstanding balance on her 
agreement account were mis-handled by Cabot. She says that Cabot refused to honour one 
of the counteroffers made to her. She wants to accept this counteroffer, and she wants 
Cabot to honour it. 
What happened
Miss S made an initial settlement offer of roundly 35% of her outstanding balance to Cabot in 
mid-September 2021, which it referred to its agent. The agent acknowledged the offer, and it 
told Miss S that she would receive a response within five working days. 
The agent responded on the sixth working day, asking Miss S for further information. She 
provided the requested information nine working days later. The agent acknowledged receipt 
of this information and told her that it had referred the matter to Cabot. 
Six working days after Miss S provided information to the agent, it emailed to her a 
counteroffer from Cabot of 90%. Miss S replied on the same day, increasing her offer to 
roundly 40%, but said that she was unable to make a higher settlement payment. 
Two working days later, Miss S phoned Cabot to chase a response to her revised offer. She 
was told that the matter was being reviewed. Four working days later, Cabot emailed Miss S 
saying that its agent would be in touch with her.
Two working days later (in early November 2021), Miss S email Cabot to chase a response. 
Cabot emailed her (copy to its agent) on the same day saying that it would be able to accept 
10% on the balance to settle. [Miss S] would need to contact [Cabots agent] moving forward 
to discuss any further options for the account. 
Cabot intended the words in italics to mean its 90% counteroffer (10% discount on the 
outstanding balance) was still available. But Miss S interpreted these words to mean Cabot 
was willing to accept a settlement payment of 10% of the outstanding balance. 
Five working days later, the agent emailed Miss S, setting out formally (and in more precise 
terms) Cabots 90% offer. Miss S complained, saying that she was confused: the agents 
description of Cabots counteroffer was different from that in Cabots earlier email, which was 
the offer she wanted to accept.     
Cabot apologised for providing an unclear description of its counteroffer in its early 
November 2021 email to Miss S. It offered Miss S compensation of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this lack of clarity. But it was not willing to accept a settlement of 
10% of the outstanding balance. 
Miss S remained dissatisfied, and she referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld:
She appreciated how Miss S had interpreted Cabots early November 2021 email  
but the likelihood that Cabot would counteroffer a 10% settlement figure, when it had 
previously counteroffered 90% to her 35% initial offer, appears to have been remote
Cabot had assigned Miss Ss agreement to its agent to manage  so it was 
reasonable to expect that all formal dealings would be between Miss S and the 
agent, and would not involve Cabot
It appears that the agent was sometimes slow in responding to Miss S  which may 
explain why, anxious to achieve a settlement, Miss S contacted Cabot directly to 
chase responses
But these contacts between Miss S and Cabot appear to have contributed to the 
confusion about which she complained
Cabot was quick to clarify the matter when Miss S complained, and it offered 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unclear email  our 
investigator felt this offer was reasonable in the circumstances
Miss S disagreed with our investigator, and so this complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S explained to our investigator her concerns about Cabot. She feels that it is unwilling 
to enter genuine negotiations with her. And Cabot told us that:
If Miss S in unable to make the 90% settlement payment, it will continue to accept 
her monthly instalments in accordance with her current payment plan
Miss Ss account will also continue to be managed by its agent
I sympathise with Miss S. She was trying hard to resolve a long-standing matter, and she 
interpreted some clumsy text in an email as offering her a way of doing so. Although she 
might have reflected on the old maxim: if something seems too good to be true, it probably 
is too good to be true. 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to insist that Cabot adheres to Miss Ss 
interpretation of its early November 2021 email to her. The wording is ambiguous, but it is for 
the clumsy texts author (and not the reader) to clarify. 
There is information about compensation for non-financial loss on our public website, where 
we describe:
When we might award compensation for distress or inconvenience, damage to 
reputation, pain and suffering
What we take into account when deciding an award, where compensation is 
appropriate
Examples of awards for trouble and upset
I feel that compensation of £100 in this instance (as offered by Cabot and supported by our 
investigator) is appropriate, given the circumstances of Miss Ss complaint. It is consistent 
with our approach to awarding compensation, and with those examples and awards.All of this is very unfortunate for Miss S. And Cabots position is quite inflexible. But the 
question I must answer is not about Miss Ss welfare, or about Cabots business policy. 
Rather it is: has Cabot responded inappropriately or insufficiently to the concerns raised with 
it by Miss S?  And I have come to the same answer as our investigator, for similar reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman