DRN-4123817
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt 
with their claim following damage caused by a fallen tree.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B contacted RSA to make a claim under their home insurance policy. A tree in 
their garden had fallen causing damage to their garden fence and hedge, and to the 
neighbouring property. They were advised by RSA that the policy covered third party 
damage to the neighbouring property but didnt cover removal of the tree or the damage to 
Mr and Mrs Bs garden.
Mr and Mrs B complained to RSA. They were unhappy that their claim for damage to their 
garden had been declined. Mr and Mrs B also complained that they were given little 
assistance from RSA in how to deal with the neighbouring damage or how to pay for 
contractors they had instructed. 
RSA didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the claim was correctly declined under the 
terms of the policy as garden damage was excluded. They didnt comment on the handling 
of the claim or the payment of contractors. Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this response 
and brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think that RSA had done anything wrong and agreed that the claim for 
damage to Mr and Mrs Bs property wasnt covered under the policy. Mr and Mrs B accepted 
this. However, they said that their complaint had also been about the lack of assistance with 
how to deal with the third party claim and that it hadnt been made clear how the cost of 
removing the tree would be paid. Our investigator made further enquiries with RSA who said 
that Mr B was advised when he logged his claim that the cost of removing the tree wouldnt 
be covered, and that any costs relating to damage to the neighbours property should be 
directed to their insurers. Our investigator thought that RSA had made its position clear 
during telephone calls with Mr and Mrs B and didnt think their complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs B accepted our investigators view about their declined claim  Im only 
considering initial issues surrounding the assistance given to Mr and Mrs B with the third 
party claim and the tree removal. 
Mr B reported the damage to RSA on 30 September 2022. Ive listened to the call recordings 
from this date. Im satisfied that RSA advised Mr B that his policy included third party cover 
and that Mr Bs neighbour would have to claim for the damage to her property on her home 
insurance and then her insurance company would make a claim to RSA. 
Im also satisfied that Mr B was advised that RSA wouldnt cover the cost of the tree 
clearance under his policy. Mr B said that he was going to arrange the tree clearance 
regardless as the tree was a hazard and needed to be removed. There was no discussion 
about whether he might recover the cost of removing the tree from the neighbours side, but 
he was told that the neighbour should claim from her own insurance for any damage caused 
to her property. RSA says that as Mr and Mrs Bs claim had been declined, it wouldnt have 
discussed the third party claim during those initial calls  and I dont think that was 
unreasonable as this would be dealt with by the liability team. 
Ive also seen call notes with RSAs liability team who spoke to Mr B a few days later. It was 
explained to Mr B how a liability claimed worked and the factors that would be looked at 
when determining the liability position. Mr B was also advised that an invoice he had for 
boarding up of the neighbours property should be sent to the neighbour to pass on to her 
insurers. There was no specific discussion about the cost of the tree clearance, but RSA did 
advise that any costs incurred on behalf of the neighbour would need to be directed to the 
neighbours insurer to be considered as part of any liability claim.
It doesnt appear that RSA put any of the above in writing as Mr B says he would have liked, 
but I dont think there was any obligation for RSA to do this and Im not aware that Mr and 
Mrs B requested this at the time. 
Having considered all of the above, I dont think RSA acted unreasonably with the 
assistance it offered Mr and Mrs B with their claim. I understand that Mr and Mrs B found 
themselves in a difficult situation with their neighbour after the tree fell, but I dont think RSA 
did anything wrong. I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision  but Im not 
upholding their complaint.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs B have now raised a further issue regarding the liability claim. As 
this wasnt part of their original complaint to RSA and RSA hasnt considered it, Ive not dealt 
with it here. Mr and Mrs B can raise this as a separate complaint with RSA if they wish. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023. 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman