DRN-3515838
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) hasnt refunded the 
money she paid to a tradesman. 
What happened
Miss B says that she needed some repairs to be done on her roof. She used a site that 
connects people with local tradesman and was contacted by someone Ill call S. Miss B says 
that S asked her to pay for materials in advance. No contract was provided, and Miss B 
doesnt have anything in writing to confirm the details of what was agreed with S. Miss B 
says she was pressured to make the following payments to S.
Date Amount
23/11/20 £750
27/11/20 £2,000
15/12/20 £1,000
TOTAL £3,750
Miss B called Halifax to report a scam on 18 December 2020. In this call she said that she 
was pressured to make payments but that the contractor (S) came and caused damage 
instead of doing the work. Miss B wasnt sure if S had partially removed the roof. The Halifax 
advisor said that if any work had been completed Halifax couldnt help and Miss B said that 
hed misunderstood, and no work had been completed.  
Miss B called Halifax again on 25 December 2020 and again said she wanted to report a 
scam. In this call she said that S had befriended her and gained her trust. S then offered to 
sort out some problems with her roof. Miss B transferred funds to S, but he hadnt completed 
any work at all. After she had made the payments Miss B said S reported her to the police 
for harassment. 
Halifax told Miss B that she had provided different versions of events, but the initial report 
was more likely to be correct. It said Miss B has a civil dispute with S and so the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) doesnt apply. 
Although Halifax said this is a civil dispute it tried to recover Miss Bs funds from Ss bank, 
but none remained.   
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She felt 
the evidence didnt support that Miss B was the victim of a scam and so Halifax acted 
reasonably in not refunding the money Miss B had lost. 
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. She said that S hadnt completed any work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about whats happened in this case. I can totally 
understand Miss Bs wish to get her money back. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam (excepted in limited circumstances). But the CRM Code is quite 
explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a 
legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So the CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers against non-receipt of services or 
defective workmanship. Instead it only applies in very specific circumstances  where the 
customer has been the victim of a scam.
It seems that Miss B didnt receive the service she expected. But in order for me to conclude 
that Miss B has been the victim of a scam, Id have to be satisfied that S deliberately tricked 
Miss B into making payments for a service he had no intention of providing. Im not 
persuaded I can say that is most likely what happened here and will explain why. 
There is nothing to record what Miss B agreed with S or what she was making payments for. 
The only evidence in respect of the nature of the arrangement is what Miss B has told this 
service and Halifax. In the first call when Miss B reported the scam to Halifax, she said that 
S had made matters worse which leads me to think that some work was completed but it 
wasnt of the standard Miss B expected. This means that the CRM Code doesnt apply and I 
cant reasonably ask Halifax to provide her with a refund.
Ive also thought about whether there were any other reasons why Halifax should have done 
more to help Miss B, but I dont think there were. The payments Miss B made to S werent so 
out of character given her normal account and payment history that Halifax ought reasonably 
to have had concerns and intervened when they were made. Miss B had made larger 
genuine transactions from the same account. 
I havent seen any other evidence that indicates to me that Miss B has been scammed and 
so I cant fairly conclude that Halifax has done anything wrong.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman