DRN-1820382
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about how Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) dealt with his claims for water 
damage under a commercial insurance policy.
Any references to Zurich include its contractors and agents working on its behalf.
What happened
Mr C contacted his freeholder to make two claims for water damage to a property he owned. 
The freeholder replied about a week later and said it had passed on the claims to Zurich. Mr 
C contacted Zurich several weeks later as he hadnt heard anything about the claims. Zurich 
said it wasnt aware of the claims, so Mr C then logged the claims. Zurichs contractors then 
contacted Mr C to progress the claims and fix the damage.
Mr C complained to Zurich about the amount of time it took to deal with the claims and that 
he had logged a number of complaints but not received a response. When Zurich replied, it 
accepted that there were some delays in handling the claims and that some complaints 
werent logged or responded to. It offered £150 compensation as an apology. Following 
further comments from Mr C, Zurich increased the amount of compensation to £300.
Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that Zurich had failed to log the initial claims or that 
it hadnt dealt with the claims in a timely manner.
As Mr C did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C is unhappy that it took several months for Zurich to progress his claims. When Mr C 
first contacted Zurich directly about the claims, it said it wasnt aware of them. Mr C has said 
that he received confirmation from the freeholder that Zurich had confirmed receipt of the 
claims and would be in touch with him. So, he was unhappy that Zurich had no record of it.
Ive read the email that the freeholder sent to Mr C about progressing the claims, but didnt 
read anything in it that said Zurich had confirmed receipt of the email or that Zurich had said 
it would be in touch. The freeholder only said that the email had been sent and then provided 
some general advice on next steps and about wider issues related to the claims.
Although I accept that Mr C would have expected that Zurich had therefore received the 
email, I havent seen anything to show that it did. I note that the freeholder sent another 
email to Zurich about the claims about two months later describing it as a new claim. Zurich 
also provided evidence that showed that it received the second email, but I havent seen 
anything that showed it received the first one. 
So I think this may well indicate that Zurich hadnt received the first email, although it isnt 
entirely clear why. I can understand that Mr C would have been frustrated by the lack of 
progress on his claims but, based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly conclude that 
Zurich should have taken action in those first two months, as I havent seen anything that 
showed it was aware of the claims.
Ive looked at what happened when Mr C logged the claims with Zurich directly. Having done 
so, I didnt see anything that caused me to think that there was any particular delay in 
progressing the claims at this stage. Shortly after the claims were logged, a surveyor 
contacted Mr C and a visit was arranged for a few days later. About a month after that, Mr C 
told Zurich that the leak, which was coming from the property above, had been repaired. 
Zurich has confirmed that the leak needed to have stopped before it could proceed with the 
claims. Looking at the records, I can see that a few days after Zurich was told the leak had 
stopped, it confirmed to the contractors that the claims could now proceed. A pre-site visit 
then took place about a week later. I think that was reasonable.
About 10 days later, a contractor tried to contact Mr C by phone and then a couple of days 
later followed this up with an email. I can see that there was then a discussion that took 
place over a number of weeks about possible start dates for the work, the materials and 
parking. I can understand that Mr C found this frustrating, as he said that he had already 
discussed some of this information with the contractor, including the tiles and the paint. 
However, given that the contractor didnt seem to have all of the information that it needed to 
proceed, I think it was reasonable for it to try and clarify these details with Mr C so that these 
details were agreed. Im aware that this also meant the proposed start date was missed. But 
I cant see that it would have been reasonable for it to start before the materials had been 
fully agreed or it was clear where the contractor would park, particularly as Mr C had said 
there was no parking on site.
So, I think there was a fairly lengthy gap between the site visit and the works actually 
starting, but that it took some time for the full details of the work and access to be agreed 
between the contractor and Mr C. However, I dont think that it would have been reasonable 
for the work to have started without those details being agreed and I can see that the 
contractor regularly followed up to try and get all of the details, such as Mr Cs choice of 
paint. When the start date was agreed, I understand that Mr C then asked for this to be 
moved, although only by a few days. The works then seem to have taken place over a few 
days.
Given the amount of time it took to carry out the works, I can see that it would have been 
frustrating and inconvenient for Mr C for it to have taken so long for the works to start. 
However, I think there were a range of reasons for the delays, including that the leak needed 
to be stopped and that a number of details needed to be agreed with Mr C before the works 
could start. I think that Zurichs offer of £300 compensation was reasonable in the 
circumstances. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Zurich to do anything 
further.
Im aware that Mr C also complained about how Zurich dealt with his complaints. However, 
this isnt a regulated activity, so I am unable to comment on this.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman