DRN-1535907
 
The complaint
Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent irresponsibly to him.
 
What happened
Mr R took out 16 loans by Sunny between December 2017 and July 2019. 
 
Loan no. Date borrowed Date repaid Amount
1 09.12.17 15.01.18 £200
2 15.01.18 15.03.18 £300
3 27.02.18 15.08.18 £400
4 27.03.18 15.06.18 £250
5 25.10.18 21.12.18 £350
6 27.10.18 15.03.19 £300
7 28.11.18 14.12.18 £150
8 15.12.18 18.12.18 £300
9 20.12.18 14.06.19 £350
10 21.12.18 14.06.19 £300
11 10.02.19 21.04.19 £100
12 15.03.19 10.08.19 £400
13 21.04.19 16.06.19 £200
14 16.06.19 08.08.19 £400
15 16.06.19 10.08.19 £200
16 28.07.19 08.08.19 £150
 
Each of the loans was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments, but Mr R repaid some of 
them much earlier than originally planned. At times Mr R had several loans outstanding at 
the same time. Mr R repaid all the loans in full.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, he didnt think 
Sunny had been wrong to make the first three loans. But he thought that proportionate 
checks would have shown that Mr R was having problems managing his money by the time 
he took out loan 4. And by the time he took out loan 6, he thought Sunny should have 
realised that Mr Rs pattern of borrowing itself suggested that hed become dependent on short-term loans. So the adjudicator said Sunny should pay Mr R some compensation, and 
make some amendments to his credit file.
After the adjudicator sent out his view, Sunny offered to do as the adjudicator had said, but 
only for loans 12-16. Mr R wasnt happy with Sunnys offer, so the complaints been passed 
to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr R could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mr R. It asked him for details of his income, and his 
normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused 
additional concerns to Sunny.
As I mentioned earlier, each of Mr Rs loans was repayable over a six month period. So the 
amounts that Mr R needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a much 
longer period. And at times Mr R had a number of loans outstanding together. So Ive 
needed to consider the total amount that Mr R needed to repay to Sunny each month.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing the first three loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Mr R needed to repay were small compared with the income hed 
declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Rs circumstances 
at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first three loans. So I dont think 
Sunny was wrong to give those loans to Mr R. 
But loan 4 was the fourth loan Mr R had asked Sunny for in less than four months. And 
although hed repaid loans 1 and 2 ahead of schedule, hed quickly applied to borrow again. 
I think Sunny should have realised that the fact that hed repaid those loans much earlier 
than planned might have been an indication that Mr R was having problems managing his 
money and that he was needing to refinance his borrowing. And I think that it ought to have 
occurred to Sunny that Mr Rs true financial position might not be as healthy as the monthly 
income and expenditure figures hed provided suggested. So I think that Sunny should, at 
this stage, have taken steps to verify Mr Rs true financial position before agreeing further 
loans.
Ive looked at Mr Rs bank statements and credit file from the time to see what its likely that 
proper checks would have shown Sunny. And I think that if Sunny had looked into Mr Rs 
financial position as closely as I think it should have done, it would have become aware that 
in addition to loan 3, Mr R had loans outstanding with several other short-term lenders. So 
I think it should have been apparent to Sunny that it was likely that Mr R was having 
significant problems managing his finances. And my view is the same regarding loan 5, for 
similar reasons.
Looking at the overall pattern of Mr Rs borrowing from Sunny, I think that by the time he 
applied for loan 6, Sunny should have realised that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. This was Mr Rs sixth loan request in less than a year. Although thered 
been a period of just over two months before he applied for loan 5 when Mr R hadnt had 
any loans outstanding with Sunny, hed come back after that short break and asked for his 
second-highest loan to date. And he applied for loan six just two days later.
Following loan 6, Mr R continued to borrow repeatedly, and with increasing frequency from 
Sunny. So I think Sunny ought to have realised that it was more likely than not that Mr R was 
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his 
finances, and that his borrowing wasnt sustainable.
I think that Mr R lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr R's indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
The sheer number of loans, and the period he was borrowing over, was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr R 
from loan 4 onwards. This means Sunny needs to pay Mr R some compensation.
 
Putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to make loans 4 onwards to Mr R. So Sunny should:
refund all the interest and charges that Mr R paid on loans 4 to 16 inclusive;
 
pay interest at 8% simple per year on each of those amounts from the dates when 
Mr R paid them to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to loans 4 
and 5;
 
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 16 should be removed from 
Mr Rs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Elevate Credit International 
Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman