DRN-2082436
The complaint
Mr P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) has turned down a storm
damage claim he made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr P made a claim for storm damage to his roof and for internal water
damage to his home.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster to inspect Mr Ps home around three weeks later. The loss
adjuster wasnt able to get onto the roof, so they asked Mr P to send RSA photos of the roof
damage taken by his builder. Mr P sent RSA a repair quote from his builder, together with
the photos.
The loss adjuster didnt think the damage was down to storm. They thought the roof damage
was caused by the breakdown of natural materials. The photos showed three dislodged slate
tiles. But the adjuster said slate tiles wouldnt usually move around in high winds and none of
the tiles had been broken. They also said an area of flat roof near one of the tiles was in
poor condition. They stated if the roof felt was in a good condition, then rain water would run
off of it onto the flat roof. So they thought the damage had happened over time.
The adjuster didnt think the internal damage was covered by the policy. They said there was
cracking to the cornice and wall which was consistent with ingress of water over time.
Based on the loss adjusters findings, RSA turned down Mr Ps claim. It said it didnt think
the damage was down to a one-off incident of storm. It thought the damage had happened
over time, which is specifically excluded by the policy terms. It told Mr P if he could get a
report from a specialist to show the damage was due to a one-off insured event, it would
reconsider the claim and the cost of any report. It did offer Mr P £150 for the cost of a callout
under the home emergency section of his policy. Mr P wasnt happy with RSAs decision and
asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. Ultimately, she thought while
the roof damage had happened over time, Mr P wouldnt have been aware of this until the
damage manifested itself internally. At this point, hed taken action to mitigate any further
damage. She also thought the internal damage had likely worsened in the almost three week
period between it first appearing and the loss adjusters visit. So she recommended that
RSA should reassess the claim without reference to the exclusion for gradual causes or the
need for a further report.
RSA disagreed. It said while there were high winds around the time of the damage, it didnt
think these had caused the damage. It remained of the view that the damage had happened
gradually, over time. It felt the storm conditions had simply highlighted pre-existing roof
damage.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 April 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt plan to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I said:
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
RSA accepts there were storm conditions around the date Mr P first made the claim. Wind
speeds of 68mph were recorded at Mr Ps local weather station. So Im satisfied there were
storm conditions around the time of the claim.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
In this case, Mr Ps builder noted three roof slates had moved. I think the dislodging of roof
tiles or slates during storm winds may be consistent with storm damage. And I also think that
resulting internal water damage can be consistent with storm damage, due to rain entering
through dislodged tiles or slates.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The roof claim
The key issue Ive focused on is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage to Mr
Ps home, both internally and externally. In this case, I have conflicting pieces of expert
evidence. The builders Mr P got quotes from have noted that the roof damage was down to
storm conditions. RSAs loss adjuster thinks the damage happened over a period of time. So
I need to decide which piece of evidence I find most persuasive.
One of Mr Ps builders reports says: after inspecting the above property we found that
missing slates caused by the storm Callum led to heavy ingress of water with the loft
completely wet and much of the water flowing into the load bearing wall causing internal
damage in the bedroom and corridor. The other says quote for storm damage  main
house stone slate and flat roof area due to slates missing water as (sic) travelled inwardly by
capillary action  So it seems Mr Ps builders thought the damage was down to storm.
Ive then turned to look at the report and photos RSAs provided. The report says that having
looked at the photos, while the slates are dislodged, none are broken. And it noted that the
three slates werent missing, one was next to the area of flat roof. It says the stone slates
dont move around even in the highest of winds because theyre heavy. It goes on to say:
You can also see there is roofing felt underneath where the slates have been dislodged
telling us the roof is not original and at some time it has been re-roofed and if the roof-felt is
in a good condition then the water should run down and disperse onto the flat roof. There is
also a photo of a slate which is laid on a flat roof close to an area of the flat roof which is in a
poor condition.
I appreciate RSAs adjuster didnt go onto the roof. But I think theyve given clear reasons as
to why they think the damage happened  the roof felt and flat roof are in a poor condition,
which has let in water. I think the photos suggest clear damage to the roof felt, which looks
cracked in places. And having considered the most detailed quote for repair, the builder has
said the whole felt roof requires replacing and renewing, together with the timbers. Thiswould tend to support that the felt roof has degraded to the extent it needs full replacement.
So I currently think its most likely the main cause of the roof damage was due to the natural
breakdown of the roof felt over time, rather than storm conditions. And Im most persuaded
by the findings of RSAs adjuster.
Mr Ps policy specifically excludes: any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind
directly or indirectly caused by or resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rust,
damp, insects, vermin, fungus, condensation, fading, frost or anything that happens
gradually, the process of cleaning, dyeing, repair, alteration, renovation or restoration.
As I currently think Mr Ps roof damage wasnt caused by a sudden one-off event and was
likely due to wear and tear over time, I currently think it was fair for RSA to turn down the
external damage claim.
The internal damage claim
Its clear from the photos that Mr Ps property suffered extensive internal damage. Our
investigator thought this damage had worsened during the period between the storm and the
loss adjusters visit.
Ive carefully considered the available evidence. The adjusters report says:
There is damage to the ceiling. The lining paper has come away and there is cracking
flaking paint to the cornice etc. The plaster from the wall has completely deteriorated and
more plaster has been removed. When the surveyor inspected the wall, he observed the
damage was caused by peeling and cracking to the cornice and the wall consistent with
rainwater ingress over a period of time.
Ive also looked closely at the photos. There is substantial cracking to the cornice and to the
walls. The plaster is also heavily stained and in some places, has come away to reveal the
brickwork.
I appreciate the investigator thought Mr P wouldnt have been aware of ongoing water
ingress until after the storm happened. So I asked RSA whether or not it thought the damage
wouldve been visible to Mr P beforehand. It said it thought the photos showed the damage
was excessive and was definitely damage which wouldve been visible for some time.
Having considered the report and the photos, I currently tend to agree with RSA that water
damage was likely to have been ongoing and visible before the claim was made.
Ive looked at the weather reports after the date of the storm and before the loss adjusters
visit and while there was some rain, the maximum weekly rainfall during that period was
15.4mm and at points, substantially less. So I dont think there was continued heavy rain
which had carried on getting in through the roof during this period.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I currently think the internal damage has also been caused
by ingress of water over a period of time, which I think Mr P wouldve likely been aware of.
So I think its also fair for RSA to turn down this part of his claim.
RSA has said if Mr Ps able to get an independent expert report to counter its findings, its
prepared to reconsider this claim. I think thats a fair response and its open to Mr P to obtain
such a report and send it to me and RSA to assess before I go on to reconsider his
complaint.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they wanted me to consider.
Mr P provided a further builders report in support of his claim. The builder did think the 
damage was down to storm. Hed mentioned thered been three storms within 24 days. He said stone slates had rattled off the roof during high winds  theyd slid out leaving a large 
hole. Given the intense rainfall, he said internal damage had been inevitable. He said the felt 
under the slate was in a good condition and there was no sign of mould, wet or dry rot or 
fungus in the loft. He found there was no damage to the ceilings apart from the area below 
the missing slates. The corridor ceiling didnt show any signs of a water leak, which showed 
the roof was intact. He said a flat roof is made up of many layers and cant be judged by just 
one of them. And he said the internal damage definitely hadnt happened gradually  itd 
been a one-off ingress of water due to the storm. And the frequent heavy showers 
afterwards had added to the internal damage.
Our investigator sent a copy of the new report to RSA for it to consider and for its comments. 
The report was looked at by the surveyor who originally inspected Mr Ps home, who 
disagreed with the builders findings. They said originally, itd been claimed the slipped slates 
had damaged the roof felt, but the new report suggested it was in good condition. The 
surveyor agreed that two stone slates could rattle off during a storm. But he queried why 
only two slates had slipped here and he felt they were too heavy to move except in the 
strongest winds. He didnt believe the slates had ever come off due to the weather 
conditions, but even if they had, the felt shouldve withstood the rain and stopped it getting 
into Mr Ps home. He felt the sole reason for roofing underlay was to prevent ingress of 
water. 
The surveyor accepted to a point that the roof felt was in a good condition, but he said the 
builder wouldve struggled to see the very low point of the roof, where the felt drops down 
over the timber upstand. This is where the surveyor thought the felt had deteriorated and he 
said it was very common. The surveyor said the roof wasnt punctured, but there was a hole 
left behind by the missing slates. He felt the builder had meant that water had backed-up 
and gone under the felt where it laps onto each other and through the nail holes. The 
surveyor considered this was nonsense. He maintained that water wells-up behind the 
fascia board or upstand and the felt rots over time  which is whatd happened here. 
And the surveyor stated it was very evident the internal damage had been going for a long 
period of time, just by looking at it. Although he did say the damage wouldve become 
considerably worse around the time of the loss.
We put RSAs further comments to Mr P. He initially planned to ask his builder to respond to 
the points RSA had made, but Mr P later sent in his own thoughts on my provisional findings. 
Ive summarised his points:
- RSAs surveyors comments were speculative and libellous;
- The surveyors findings are contradictory  hes mentioned both that slates can slip, 
but also found that they hadnt;
- A specialist website for roofing contractors said the main purpose of felt underlay was 
to prevent wind uplift; and was a secondary barrier against weather. Mr P felt this 
clearly wasnt intended to deal with a considerable amount of water.
- RSAs surveyor hadnt gone onto the roof or into the loft; but Mr Ps contractor had 
spent a considerable amount of time inspecting the loft space;
- The roof hadnt been neglected and the lapping on his roof was appropriate 
according to a specialist building website;
- Mr P wouldve corrected any water damage in his childs bedroom if itd been visible 
 thered been no damage to his bedroom prior to the storm;
- If the flat roof was leaking, thered also be damage to the corridor ceiling, but there 
isnt
- The lining paper on the wall had come off, due to water spreading during the storm;- The house is around 170 years old and the plaster is as old as the house  so it 
would deteriorate fast upon water ingress;
- The peeling and cracking of the paint and cornice were due to age and movement;
- The plaster is stained due to age and has lost its adherence for the same reason  
the water ingress exaggerated this;
- He didnt agree that there wasnt continued heavy rain and he didnt agree with 
averaging out rainfall.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think it was fair for RSA to turn down Mr Ps claim. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure both parties that while Ive summarised their further evidence and 
reports, Ive considered everything very carefully. Im grateful to Mr P for getting further 
expert evidence, especially given the current circumstances. Im pleased to see that RSA did 
consider the new evidence as itd said it would. Id also like to reassure Mr P that while Ive 
thought about all the points hes made, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
This is a very finely balanced case. Both parties have provided me with expert evidence to 
support their position. But I have to make my decision based on what I think the evidence 
shows was most likely to have happened and what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Mr Ps builder found that the damage was down to the most recent of the three storms which 
had hit Mr Ps local area. He believes that the high winds had caused the slates to rattle and 
slip which had punctured the roof felt. This does appear to be broadly consistent with what 
the first roofer who quoted for the roof repairs had said.
RSA accepts it is possible for slates to slip in high winds. It noted the roof slates looked like 
they were in a good condition. But it queried why other slates hadnt moved around. It 
maintained these types of slates only moved around in the highest of winds and it felt they 
couldve been pulled out from behind the laths. It also added that none of the dislodged 
slates had broken  but one had been placed next to the damaged area of felt roof. It 
considered given the condition of the slates, the internal damage could only be down to the 
poor condition of the felt underneath.
Ive weighed up the evidence from both experts. And Ive thought about what Mr P has sent 
me. I accept its possible the slates were dislodged by gale-force winds, as does RSA. 
Although it thinks this was unlikely and has explained why.
But even if the winds did cause the slates to slip, it seems most likely the water got in 
because of the deterioration of the roof felt. I note Mr Ps builder said the felt was in good 
condition, but the underlay couldnt cope with a large volume of water and would seek a way 
out. However, RSAs surveyor stated that even with a large amount of water running off the 
slates above the opening; the felt shouldve been able to withstand it. It seems to me that 
this is supported by the information Mr P sent in too. This says that the underlay should 
provide a barrier against wind-driven rain, even if its main purpose is to prevent wind uplift.
RSAs surveyor gave a clear explanation about how he believed the damage to the felt had 
happened  that the felt had deteriorated near the timber upstand of the roof. This meant the 
water didnt disperse onto the flat roof but had leaked into the property. He explained how water collection over time rots the felt and this was a natural breakdown of the roof 
materials. 
Ive noted what Mr Ps said about his builders inspection of the loft space and that the 
builder didnt find wet rot. But the builder didnt respond to RSAs surveyors points, which I 
think are persuasive. Theyd also explain why the internal damage was limited to the area of 
damaged felt.
Based on all Ive seen, it seems more likely than not that if the felt had been in good 
condition and hadnt deteriorated; it wouldve been able to withstand the rainfall and the 
water wouldve dispersed as it shouldve done. So Im persuaded by the findings of RSAs 
surveyor and I think its more likely the damage was down to failure of materials and 
happened over time. Both causes are specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Mr Ps builder maintained the internal damage was down to a one-off sudden ingress of 
water. Mr P also says that there was no visible damage before the storm and that he 
wouldnt have let his child sleep in the bedroom if there had been.
RSA says it was very evident that the damage had been going on for a long time. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, I agree the photos appear to support this view. There is 
clear cracking and discolouration in some of the pictures. And the plaster has failed to the 
extent that the brickwork is much exposed. Even if age did cause some loss of adherence, 
this seems like advanced damage, which is more likely to have been happening over time. 
While Ive considered all Mr P has said, it does seem more likely that the damage wouldve 
been visible before the claim was made. 
So overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, I still think RSA was reasonably entitled to turn 
down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman