DRN-2299651
The complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In January 1998 Mrs S opened a store card account. In May 1998 PPI was added to her 
account following a telephone call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs S owed on her store card and 
it protected Mrs Ss store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Mrs S disagreed. In summary, Mrs Ss main 
complaint is that her sick pay entitlement through work meant that PPI wasnt required. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont know what it said to Mrs S when the policy was sold. But based on what this 
service knows about the sales process, the purpose of the call was to sell PPI. So it seems 
likely that AXA wouldve taken the opportunity to explain the main features of the policy to 
see if Mrs S wanted to take it out. 
And given that the policy was taken out when shed already had her store card for some 
months without PPI, I think Mrs S wouldve been aware that the policy was optional. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect Mrs S to remember exactly what happened so many 
years ago. On balance, I think its likely that the PPI was added to her account during the 
phone call when Mrs S chose to buy the policy offered after hearing about the benefits and 
deciding she wanted PPI to protect her card monthly repayments. 
I dont think AXA advised Mrs S to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs S with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Mrs S had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. And it doesnt look as if she was affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve made any difference to Mrs Ss decision to take it out. 
The policy paid out a benefit if Mrs S couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card each month until the 
outstanding balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. 
It wouldve paid out on top of sick pay. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to 
have been a difficult time if Mrs S needed to claim  bearing in mind that she mightve had 
extra costs if she was ill or disabled and she wouldve only been able to rely on getting full 
pay for the first 6 months she was off work sick. 
I've taken into account that Mrs S felt that her wages were more than sufficient to cover her 
payments each month. But the PPI offered protection against the unexpected happening and 
paid out when she wasnt working. 
So I think Mrs S couldve benefitted from having the policy. 
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs S to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs S had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a 
problem for Mrs S  and she took it out when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted the 
cover. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Mrs S off taking out 
the policy, given her situation at the time.
Even if AXA didnt give Mrs S all the information it shouldve done when it sold her the policy, 
I havent seen enough information to be able to say that Mrs S has lost out as a result of 
anything that AXA did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman