DRN-3157387
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to allow them to extend 
the term on their interest-only mortgage.
What happened
In around 2008, Mr and Mrs J took advice from a broker who recommended that they should 
take an interest-only mortgage with Woolwich, which was a part of Barclays Bank. They 
received a mortgage offer with a 10 year term. The offer document said that the broker had 
recommended they should take out this mortgage. The offer also set out that the capital 
would still be outstanding at the end of the term, and said It is important to ensure that you 
have a suitable savings plan in place and to check regularly that your savings plan is on 
track to repay this mortgage at the end of the term. Mr and Mrs J completed on their 
£720,000 mortgage on 2 August 2010. 
In December 2017, Mr and Mrs J applied for a 10 year extension to their mortgage term. The 
application form they completed said sale of mortgaged property as the repayment 
strategy, and also said they had shares which they would use. Mr and Mrs J said that the 
adviser asked what the original plan had been to pay off the mortgage. She hadnt believed 
him when hed said it was to sell shares in a company that Mr J part-owned  and shed only 
been willing to put selling the house as the repayment strategy. Mr J said he agreed 
because he knew he could pay off the balance in another 10 years by the sale of shares, 
savings, earnings, investments, and inheritances.
In January 2018, Barclays refused the application to extend the interest-only mortgage term. 
The letter said The main reason for this decision is that your income is insufficient to 
support the level of borrowing you have requested. Barclays has explained that when it 
checked the declared self-employed income, by looking at trading accounts and tax 
calculations, its underwriters could see that the income declared wasnt sustainable.  So the 
application fell outside its lending criteria.
The mortgage term ended in August 2019, and Mr and Mrs J werent able to pay off the 
mortgage. In the various discussions with Barclays, Mr J said he had shares which were 
worth around £5 million, but he hadnt yet liquidated them and didnt want to. The shares 
werent in companies listed on any stock market. He also said he was thinking of re-
mortgaging elsewhere, and that he would consult his independent financial adviser. Mr J 
also said that in a year hed be receiving a salary of £150,000. 
In late 2019, Barclays referred the matter to its Wealth team. But the Wealth team told Mr J 
that it couldnt help because the shares Mr J had referred to werent floated on any stock 
market, and he didnt draw funds from any of the companies.  
In early 2020, Mr J told Barclays that he hadnt been able to get an equity release deal, nor 
had he been able to re-mortgage elsewhere. He asked Barclays for a six month extension so 
he could work on getting the companies listed on a stock market. Barclays agreed to a short-
term breathing space  to May 2020, but warned about possession litigation if there was no 
acceptable proposal by then.
In May 2020, Mr J told Barclays that his business, which was in the leisure industry, was on 
hold because of the Covid pandemic. He complained, saying that during the original 
application through a broker, hed been told that hed be able to extend the mortgage by 10 
years.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. In its final response, it said it wasnt able to 
extend their mortgage term by a further 10 years. It said it could no longer contact the 
original Woolwich mortgage contact. It was correct for them to have said that when a 
maturity date approaches, a customer who couldnt pay off the balance could apply for an 
extension. But this would have to be reviewed and assessed to ensure it met lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs J werent satisfied and contacted this service. They said the original mortgage 
had been mis-sold, and they were now being asked to sell their home. They said that 
Barclays hadnt taken the Covid situation into account, and the difficulties the leisure industry 
was suffering. They said theirs was a very reasonable request and they didnt understand 
why Barclays was refusing the 10 year term extension.
Our investigator pointed out that as the original mortgage had been sold by a broker, any 
complaint about mis-selling should be against that broker. So he just looked at the complaint 
about Barclays refusal to agree to a 10 year extension, which he didnt uphold. 
The investigator explained that lending regulation had changed since Mr and Mrs J took out 
the mortgage. While Mr and Mrs Js extension application might not be approved because of 
tighter lending controls, Barclays had to consider what would be in Mr and Mrs Js best 
interest. And to do that, Barclays would need to carry out an income and expenditure 
assessment.
Barclays had reviewed the application with the information provided  but the investigator 
didnt think this had been an accurate reflection of Mr and Mrs Js circumstances or plans. 
The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs J had said they stated sale of the property as the 
repayment vehicle  but theyd never intended to do this. 
The investigator said he was satisfied that Barclays hadnt acted unfairly in declining Mr and 
Mrs Js request. He said that both sides should keep an open dialogue.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the investigators view. They said the reason theyd said they 
would sell the house as their repayment strategy was because that was the only thing that 
Barclays would consider when theyd asked for the extension. They disputed that they hadnt 
given accurate information. They said that equity release would leave a large shortfall that 
they couldnt currently cover, though theyd be able to within two to three years. 
The investigator replied that the complaint had been solely about the term extension request 
for 10 years, and he didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly in refusing this. He pointed out 
that a request for a two to three year extension would have to be put to Barclays for it to 
consider, and wasnt something this service could negotiate. 
Mr and Mrs J asked for an ombudsman decision. They said they didnt understand and 
couldnt accept that Barclays hadnt acted unfairly. They said theyd given Barclays accurate 
information, including the fact that the original repayment plan had been to sell shares. Mr J 
said hed always been clear that his salary had always been minimal, as he only paid what 
he needed. He said he would pay himself more if he had to in order to qualify for a mortgage 
extension, but hed need six months to arrange this. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I confirm that I cant consider Mr and Mrs Js complaint that the original mortgage was 
mis-sold. The original application form clearly shows that a broker recommended that Mr and 
Mrs J should take out the mortgage, so any complaint about mis-selling should be directed 
to that broker.  So what Ive considered is Mr and Mrs Js complaint about Barclays refusal 
of their request to extend their interest-only mortgage term by a further 10 years.
After the 2008 financial crash, the Financial Conduct Authority conducted a Mortgage Market 
Review  (MMR), and new rules came into effect in 2014. These made lenders responsible 
for ensuring mortgages were affordable. Stringent checks were introduced, including more 
rigorous affordability assessments, and more rigorous assessment of interest-only 
mortgages. The new rules applied not just to applications for new mortgages, but also to 
existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their mortgage  as Mr and Mrs J did, 
when they applied to extend their interest-only mortgage term by a further ten years. So 
Barclays has a duty to take these stricter rules into account when considering Mr and Mrs Js 
request.
Under the rules, it was therefore fair for Barclays to carry out a full affordability assessment. 
There is also a provision for taking into account the borrowers best interests.  This 
assessment depends on individual circumstances, and it isnt necessarily the same as what 
the borrower asks for. Id point out that its only really in borrowers best interests to extend a 
mortgage term, if it allows them to realise a robust and well-defined plan to repay the capital. 
Otherwise, they would just be paying more interest over a longer period, which wouldnt be 
in their best interests.
The starting point of a mortgage which has reached the end of the term is that the mortgage 
has to be repaid. And its fair for the lender to expect that to happen. Lenders and borrowers 
are both expected to engage to resolve the problem.
In view of these rules and guidance, Ive looked in detail at the contact between Mr and Mrs 
J and Barclays, from the time of their 2017 application for a term extension. 
I consider that Barclays acted fairly when it refused the 2017 application for a term 
extension. On the information which was put on that application form, and the checks 
Barclays was entitled to carry out, including looking at trading accounts and tax calculations, 
it decided that Mr and Mrs Js income wasnt sustainable. Barclays was entitled to conduct 
such checks, and to accept its professional underwriters view that such lending was outside 
its lending criteria.
Ive also looked at the multiple discussions which took place from 2017 onwards. I can see 
that Mr and Mrs J said they were going to contact an independent financial adviser, and that 
they investigated re-mortgaging elsewhere but werent able to do so. They also considered 
equity release, but this wasnt feasible because it would leave a shortfall. As Ive set out 
above, Barclays also referred the case to its Wealth team, but they too werent able to 
suggest a workable solution.
What Mr and Mrs J told Barclays they rely on is the sale of company shares. But Barclays 
pointed out that these arent quoted on any stock exchange. I note that Mr J talked about 
floating on a stock exchange abroad at some future point, but I can understand that this 
wouldnt be a sufficiently robust or well-defined plan for Barclays to accept it as a definitive 
repayment strategy. Mr J has also suggested that he should start to pay himself a salary of 
£150,000 pa, provide six months of payslips and that would make the £720,000 mortgage 
affordable. It would be up to Barclays to take a decision on this proposal, if Mr J decides to do that. But Id point out that in order to make a responsible lending decision, as required by 
MMR, Barclays would look at whether this level was sustainable throughout the proposed 
extra 10 year term, based on the companys trading. It wouldnt just take a £150,000 salary 
as evidence of affordability.
Finally, Mr J said that as his business is in the leisure industry, its been badly affected by 
the Covid pandemic. Im sorry to hear about the difficulties. But the key events in this 
complaint, including the application to extend the mortgage term, Barclays assessment that 
this wasnt acceptable, and the end of the mortgage term, all happened before the Covid 
pandemic. I can see that there were ongoing conversations about the extension in May and 
June 2020, before Mr and Mrs J complained. I can see that Barclays was giving some 
breathing space to consider options, before it took action. I think that was fair, and ultimately 
doesnt impact the reasonableness of Barclays decision to decline the term extension.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman