DRN-2979367
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way Pepper (UK) Limited have treated her at the end of her 
interest-only mortgage term. Shes unhappy with the lack of options they gave her. Mrs B 
also complains that the mortgage has been transferred to different lenders.
What happened
Mrs B has a mortgage held in joint names with her ex-husband, although he no longer lives 
in the property or contributes to the mortgage payments. The mortgage was originally taken 
out on a repayment basis in 2004, but was later switched to interest only. When the 
mortgage was changed to interest only Mrs B and her ex-husband agreed to sell the house 
at the end of the term in 2019 in order to repay the mortgage.
In 2015 the mortgage was transferred to a different lender, who was not regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So Pepper was appointed as the regulated administrator 
of the mortgage to service it on the lenders behalf.
In August 2016, Pepper called Mrs B to ask about her plans for repaying the mortgage at the 
end of the term. Mrs B explained she didnt have a repayment vehicle in place and so 
Pepper encouraged her to seek independent advice.
In 2018, Mrs B called Pepper and asked whether they would grant her a term extension. 
Pepper explained they could look at extending the term but only if the mortgage was 
switched to repayment. They calculated what the monthly payments would be if they 
extended the term as far as they were able to (around 15 years), and switched the mortgage 
to repayment, but Mrs B said the payments would be unaffordable for her.
 
During this call Mrs B also asked about the transfer of equity process, as she wanted to 
remove her ex-husband from the mortgage. But Pepper explained they werent able to carry 
out that process. Pepper gave Mrs B the contact details of an independent financial adviser 
and recommended she speak to them about her options.
Throughout the rest of 2018 and 2019 several conversations took place about the mortgage. 
Mrs B wanted the term to be extended for 15 years on an interest only basis. She said she 
needed to stay in her home as she was a foster carer. She said shed sought legal advice 
about removing her ex-husband from the mortgage, and had spoken to a broker about other 
re-mortgage options but hadnt taken that further.
Pepper continued to explain that they would only be able to extend the term by 15 years if 
the mortgage was changed to repayment, which Mrs B said she couldnt afford. They said 
they may be able to extend the mortgage for a short time as forbearance if she has another 
way of repaying it and needed a bit more time, but couldnt give her the extension she 
wanted. They also said that any changes to the mortgage would need to be approved by the 
joint account holder.
Mrs B complained, and Pepper issued a final response letter in November 2019. They didnt 
uphold the complaint, and explained they had offered the assistance they were able to, but 
unfortunately this wasnt affordable for Mrs B.
Mrs B brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things, and upheld 
the complaint in part. She concluded that Pepper should have considered extending the term 
despite the absence of Mrs Bs ex-husband. She said it would have been in Mrs Bs best 
interests for Pepper to explore whether the mortgage could have been switched to part 
interest only and part repayment, rather than fully switched to repayment. As a result, she 
said Pepper should extend the mortgage term for seven to eight years, either on part and 
part or interest only. As that should allow Mrs B to continue her work as a foster carer in her 
current home.
Pepper disagreed with the investigators view. They said that the servicing of Mrs Bs 
mortgage had since been transferred to a new administrator, so they no longer have the 
ability to extend the term.
 
Notwithstanding that though they didnt agree that they should have extended the mortgage 
term without Mrs Bs ex-husbands consent. They said Mrs B told them she wouldnt be able 
to pay more than she was currently paying, so switching to part and part would have been 
unaffordable for her too. They said they encouraged Mrs B to seek advice about her overall 
situation, as they are not authorised to provide advice. They also said that Mrs Bs mortgage 
term expired shortly before the account was transferred, and so they had not yet gone 
through the process of managing the expired account which involves providing forbearance.
Mrs B said that her ex-husband has since agreed to be removed from the title deeds of the 
property. She said shes explored mortgages with other lenders but none of them will lend 
her the amount she needs on interest only. She said she hasnt explored repayment 
mortgages as she wants to save money. She said shes been fostering for seven years, and 
the agency are close by. Shes hoping to retire in 10 years and then downsize using the 
equity in the property.
 
As Pepper disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 2 August 2021. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs B and her ex-husband took this mortgage out, the funds were lent on the basis 
that they would be fully repaid by October 2019. Whilst I appreciate the mortgage was 
originally taken on a repayment basis, when the mortgage was switched to interest only 
upon Mrs B and her ex-husbands request, they agreed to sell the house at the end of the 
term in order to repay the balance.
I appreciate Mrs Bs circumstances have changed considerably since then, and Im grateful 
for her sharing with us the details of her current situation. Ive thought carefully about 
everything both Mrs B and Pepper have said when deciding what a fair and reasonable 
outcome is in this case.
Mrs B spoke to Pepper in 2016 about the end of the mortgage term. She knew at that time 
the mortgage would need to be repaid in 2019, and that she didnt have a repayment 
vehicle.
 In 2018 she asked for the mortgage to be extended for 15 years, and whilst Pepper explored 
this option with her, they ultimately wouldnt agree to make the change for two reasons. 
Firstly, they said that all mortgage account holders would need to agree to such a change, 
and secondly the mortgage could not be extended for that long on an interest only basis. 
Pepper encouraged Mrs B to seek independent advice about her overall situation on multiple 
occasions, and in later conversations did talk about short periods of forbearance if the 
mortgage wasnt repaid by the due date. But ultimately, they werent willing to agree to the 
changes Mrs B requested.
I think its important to note that this is a joint mortgage. Whilst I appreciate Mrs Bs ex-
husband had moved out of the property several years ago, and was not contributing to the 
mortgage payments, he was still a named account holder, as well as a joint owner of the 
property on the title deeds. Im pleased to hear that Mrs B has since made progress in taking 
full ownership of the property, but at the time she discussed things with Pepper, any 
changes made to the mortgage would have impacted both parties.
When considering Mrs Bs request for a term extension, I would expect Pepper to take into 
account Mrs Bs individual circumstances, and treat her fairly in light of her situation. Having 
considered all the conversations that took place, Im satisfied they did that.
I do understand the specific reasons why Mrs B does not want to sell her home. But I dont 
think extending the mortgage as it was for 15 years  keeping Mrs Bs ex-husband as an 
account holder and not having his consent for this change  was in her best interests.
 
Its clear Mrs B wanted to remove her ex-husband from both the mortgage and the title 
deeds. And Pepper explained that she would need to get advice about how to do that. Im 
not persuaded agreeing to such a long extension without all the parties agreement would 
have been the right thing to do here, and it wouldnt have helped Mrs B to sort the problem 
of getting her ex-husband removed from the title deeds and the mortgage. Had Mrs Bs ex-
husband been removed from the legal ownership of the property, I would have expected 
Pepper to consider Mrs Bs request to remove him from the mortgage. But that wasnt the 
case here.
Im satisfied Pepper gave Mrs B sufficient notice that she would need to find a solution to her 
overall situation. As she was aware of the need to repay the mortgage three years before the 
term ended. Had Mrs B needed an extension for a short period of time to sort things out 
before Pepper took any further action, Pepper said this would be something theyd consider. 
But thats not what Mrs B asked for.
 
Despite the mortgage ending in October 2019, Pepper continued to discuss Mrs Bs options 
with her beyond this and did not start any other collections activity in order to pursue the 
overdue funds. The mortgage was transferred to another administrator shortly afterwards, so 
the conversations ended in November 2019. But from what Ive seen, I think Pepper were 
trying to help Mrs B find a solution to her situation. And I dont think they were unreasonable 
in declining her request to extend the term for 15 years on a joint basis without the other 
partys consent.
Transfer of the mortgage
Mrs B complains that the mortgage has been transferred to different lenders. Mrs Bs 
mortgage was transferred to a different lender in 2015. And more recently whilst the 
ownership of the loan hasnt changed, the servicing agents managing the relationship with 
Mrs B have changed again.The terms of the mortgage Mrs B originally agreed to did explain that the mortgage could be 
transferred to a new lender at any time. The lender did not need Mrs Bs permission for this 
change to take place. This is a common term found in mortgage agreements like Mrs Bs, 
and transferring mortgages to new lenders is not uncommon.
Whilst I appreciate this may have caused Mrs B some confusion, Im satisfied shes been 
kept adequately informed about the changes and what they mean for her. She has been 
notified each time a transfer has taken place, and I havent seen any evidence that shes 
suffered unfair treatment as a result of the transfer from the original lender to the current 
one.
Summary
 
Since Mrs B brought her complaint to this service, her circumstances have changed. Her 
mortgage is now serviced by a different business, and shes made progress with removing 
her ex-husband from the ownership of the property. As a result, she may now have more 
options available to her in regards to her mortgage.
But considering the actions of Pepper and the way they treated Mrs B as her mortgage term 
came to an end, Im persuaded they treated her fairly. And so I dont think they need to do 
anything more to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Pepper didnt respond to the decision with any further comments.
Mrs B did respond and explained why she still felt shed been treated unfairly. But she 
recognised that Pepper are no longer able to help her as her mortgage is now administered 
by another business. Shes unhappy with how the current administrator has treated her, and 
is still working with a broker to explore her options.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mrs B is currently in a difficult position. And as she recognises, Pepper are 
no longer able to help her with that as they dont service her account any more. Her 
concerns about the way shes been treated since the transfer are not something I can 
consider under this complaint against Pepper.
Mrs B hasnt said anything following my provisional decision that leads me to change my 
mind about what a fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint is. Im still satisfied Pepper 
treated Mrs B fairly when considering her requests for a term extension.
As a result, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, Im still satisfied 
this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman