DRN-2934687
The complaint
Ms C says Harvey & Thompson Limited trading as H&T Pawnbrokers (H&T) hasnt 
administered her loan correctly. She says she called a number of times to make a payment 
towards her loan, but she was unable to do this. She says H&T issued a default notice 
despite this. She thinks this default should be removed as she was prevented from repaying 
her loan. 
What happened
This complaint is about one home collected loan H&T provided to Ms C in October 2018.
H&T has provided its contact notes. It has also commented on how Ms Cs loan account has 
been managed and the contact it had with her. Similarly, Ms C has provided her telephone 
records and some comment on the contact she has had with H&T. Ive looked at all of the 
information I have been provided when considering this complaint. 
The information I have shows that Ms C missed a loan repayment in November 2018. The 
loan account then operated normally until April 2019 when Ms C was again unable to make 
her repayments. I can see that H&T frequently tried to contact Ms C throughout April, May 
and early June. This included calling her and leaving voicemail messages. It also provided 
written notices of the arrears in April, May and June 2019. No repayment was received over 
this time. 
H&Ts records show that, in addition to the above, it sent a notice of default to Ms C on 
1 June 2019. The loan was defaulted on 22 June 2019. 
I can see that Ms C and H&T were in contact on 1 July 2019. A repayment plan was set up 
shortly after this time and Ms C has repaid the outstanding loan balance by making 
payments of £50 a month. I understand the loan is now fully repaid. 
Ms C says she called to make a repayment on 14 June 2019 but didnt speak to anyone at 
H&T as it was closed. She also says she spoke to an H&T representative on 26 and 27 June 
2019 but was unable to make a repayment due to problems with H&Ts systems. H&T 
doesnt have a record of any completed calls between it and the consumer on these days. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that H&T had tried to contact Ms C 
numerous times before defaulting the account. As no repayment was received it wasnt 
acting incorrectly when it defaulted the account. 
Ms C didnt agree. She maintains that she was unable to make her repayments due to H&Ts 
system problems. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
As Ive outlined above Ms Cs account was in arrears for some time before the default was 
applied. H&T tried to contact her over this period, and it had provided information about the 
account to her in written form. So, its reasonable to say that H&T correctly provided 
information about the situation of the account and the potential consequences of continued 
non-payment. 
And I also think it provided reasonable information when the account was about to be 
defaulted and when the loan was placed in default. 
As far as I can see Ms C didnt fully respond to any of these communications until after the 
loan was defaulted. And she didnt make any loan repayments. So, I think it was reasonable 
for H&T to default the loan. 
Ms C said she called H&T on 14 June 2019, which was before the default, but this was on a 
day the office was closed. And so no contact took place. 
Ms C has said she tried to contact H&T a number of times after the default had been added, 
in particular she refers to calls she says she made on 26 and 27 June. I accept it is unclear 
what contact there was at these times. But the loan was already in default by this time. So, I 
dont think if either party had acted differently at this time then it would have had any effect 
on the default.  
Ms C has provided some details about why she was unable to respond to H&T. I accept she 
was having a difficult time and I hope things have improved for her. But Ive seen no 
evidence that H&T was aware of these, as Ive said above, there seems to have been no 
contact between Ms C and H&T over this time period up to the default. So, I cant reasonably 
say that it should have done things differently because of this. 
Overall I dont think that H&T has acted incorrectly in respect of the information it provided 
about the default, and the default itself. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman