DRN-3570672
The complaint
Mr Y complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC:
- refused to refund him for a transaction which he said he didnt make, and 
- closed his account.
What happened
On 8 January 2022, £1,050 was transferred into Mr Ys Barclays account, making a balance 
of £1,500.
On 10 January, Mr Y went to a clothing shop where he bought goods for £34.98. 
At a cash machine three minutes later, there was a balance enquiry on his card which failed 
with an incorrect PIN, and a successful balance enquiry a few seconds later with the correct 
PIN.
Five minutes after that, there was a card payment for £1,390 at another clothing shop, using 
the genuine card and correct PIN. This left a balance of £75.02 in Mr Ys account.
 
Two minutes later, Mr Y rang Barclays. He said hed had a phone notification about the 
£1,390 transaction, which he hadnt authorised. He said hed noticed he didnt have his card, 
and hadnt written down or shared his PIN. Barclays stopped the card. 
Ten minutes later, there was a declined contactless transaction for £6.25 at a fast food 
company.
On 13 January, Barclays gave a temporary £1,390 credit to Mr Ys account while it 
investigated, and the same day Mr Y withdrew that and other money from his account.  Mr Y 
told Barclays that someone might have seen his PIN when hed made the £34.98 
transaction, and he thought that might be how his PIN had been compromised.
On 2 February, Barclays declined Mr Ys claim. It also gave Mr Y notice that it would close 
his account in 62 days time, on 6 May.
Mr Y appealed, but Barclays turned down the appeal on 7 February, and re-debited the 
temporary credit on 16 February. 
Mr Y wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said he didnt think Barclays should 
have closed his complaint as he had more information. He said hed sent a crime reference 
number to Barclays. Also, he said Barclays had told him thered been a balance enquiry 
before the disputed transaction, but he didnt use a cash machine but checks his account on 
his phone. He also said he didnt make large transactions to retailers. He said that Barclays 
had told him thered been a transfer to his account before the disputed transaction, to cover 
the disputed payment. But Mr Y said he made regular transfers, and didnt think this should 
mean hed be liable for the disputed transaction. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
He explained that the reason Barclays had held Mr Y liable was because it questioned the 
point of compromise of Mr Ys card and PIN. Barclays didnt think it was likely that someone 
unknown could have carried out the balance enquiries and disputed transaction within the 
timescales. And there hadnt been any attempt to use the mobile payment service, as Mr Y 
had claimed. So the investigator said Barclays suspected that Mr Y had carried out the 
£34.98 transaction in order to stage a point of compromise. Barclays also said it hadnt told 
Mr Y that it would refund him if he provided a crime reference number.
The investigator thought Mr Y had carried out the disputed transaction himself. He didnt 
think a third party could have obtained Mr Ys card and PIN, then done the balance enquiries 
and the disputed transaction, in the time. And a fraudster would have been likely to take out 
the whole balance at the cashpoint, not leave money in the account.  The investigator 
thought Mr Y had transferred the £1,050 into the account on 8 January solely for making 
sure there was enough in the account for the disputed transaction. He also thought Barclays 
had acted fairly when closing Mr Ys account.
Mr Y wasnt satisfied. He sent a long and detailed reply. His arguments included:
- he didnt agree that the person who compromised his PIN wouldnt have had time to 
go to a cash machine and to the clothing retailer where the disputed transaction 
happened;
- he thought the reason the criminal hadnt used the whole balance of the account was 
because things were very expensive in the disputed transaction retailer, so there 
wouldnt have been a chance to spend a small amount more;
- he said he hadnt told Barclays hed tried to use his mobile payment service before 
the £34.98 genuine transaction, but it hadnt worked so that was why hed used chip 
and PIN; 
- he didnt agree that hed paid in the £1,050 to stage the disputed transaction, and he 
made transfers to his account regularly;
- in the call with Barclays on 7 February, it had told him that if he obtained a crime 
reference number it would certainly help his case and the temporary refund would 
stay on his account because there would be further investigation.
The investigator replied in detail to Mr Ys comments. But Mr Y wasnt satisfied. He said that 
facts had been hidden away from him during this case, his words had been misused, and he 
had had no say. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y has raised multiple points in his submissions to the service. Ive understood and looked 
into all of those, but Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
Regulations
There are regulations about disputed transactions, which govern my decision. The relevant 
ones for Mr Ys complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that, in 
general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the 
customer is liable if he did authorise them. So I need to decide whether I think its more likely 
than not that Mr Y authorised the disputed £1,390 transaction himself.
Who authorised the transactionThe events in this case, which Ive set out above, are very close together. Mr Y has said that 
a fraudster would act fast. Mr Ys last undisputed transaction was made at 5:07:17 pm inside 
a shop. The attempted balance enquiries, at a cash machine on a street, were started at 
5:10:30 pm. I think this timescale would have been tight even for the cardholder. And I think 
its very unlikely that a fraudster could have completed this in the time, because after 
shoulder-surfing the PIN, theyd have had to wait till Mr Y had put the card back in his 
jacket where he said he kept it, and then await an opportunity to steal it  and then go 
outside, go to the cash machine, and start the balance transaction. 
I also think its much more likely that any fraudster who had managed this, and had found 
out Mr Ys balance, would have withdrawn the maximum amount of cash straightaway, 
rather than go on to another shop. The timescale for the disputed transaction is very tight 
too, with the successful balance enquiry at 5:10:41 pm, and the disputed transaction at 
5:15:27 pm. Five minutes to go to a shop, select item(s), possibly queue at a till, and make 
the payment, is very short. That suggests to me that the purchaser may have already 
reserved the item(s) and only had to pay. I think its unlikely a fraudster could have done 
that, because they wouldnt have known the balance on Mr Ys account until they carried out 
the successful balance enquiry.
I consider its also very unlikely that a fraudster would have left £75 in the account. Theres 
no record of any attempted cash withdrawal after the £1,390 disputed transaction. Theres 
only a £6.25 fast food attempt, which isnt what a fraudster would be likely to do with £75 left 
in the account.
Mr Y says he did make transfers into his account, which he says means that Barclays was 
wrong to say it was credited in order to stage the disputed transaction. Ive seen from his 
statements that he did indeed make irregular, large, credits to the account. 
But even taking this into account, I can understand why Barclays was suspicious about the 
disputed transaction within two days of the credit. Mr Y didnt have a pattern of using his 
card and PIN to make transactions like the genuine £34.98 one. Barclays said that Mr Y 
explained this on grounds that his mobile payment service didnt work. But after our 
investigator said there was no record of a failed mobile payment service transaction, Mr Y 
denied having told Barclays this. If this wasnt what he told Barclays, it still leaves a question 
mark over why Mr Y made this genuine transaction in a way that was unusual for him  if it 
wasnt to stage a point of compromise.
Taking these factors into account, I think its most likely that Mr Y authorised the disputed 
transaction himself.
Crime reference number
Mr Y said that in the call with Barclays on 7 February, Barclays had told him that if he 
obtained a crime reference number it would certainly help his case and the temporary refund 
would stay on his account because there would be further investigation. Unfortunately I dont 
have a call recording for that conversation, but if it were to prove what Mr Y said, it wouldnt 
influence the ultimate outcome. A crime reference number is a reference number that 
someone has reported a crime to the police. It doesnt prove that theres been a police 
investigation which has found in favour of the person reporting it. Without evidence of that  
including the investigating officers name and full details, so the bank can check  a crime 
reference number wont mean a closed fraud claim will be re-opened, still less that the 
decision would be overturned.
Account closureBanks have the right, in the terms and conditions of an account, to close a customers 
account. They dont have to give a reason, any more than a customer does if they decide to 
close their account. Here, section 5 of Barclays terms and conditions says:
We can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) by 
giving you at least two months notice. 
Barclays gave Mr Y 62 days notice. So it met the notice set out in the terms and conditions, 
and did nothing wrong when closing Mr Ys account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman