DRN-3603907
The complaint
Mr M has complained Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him for an online card transaction he 
didnt make.
What happened
Mr M got a call from one of his credit card companies warning him of potential fraud. He took 
steps to transfer money into his Monzo bank account. He then noticed a card transaction for 
£999 hed not authorised and complained to Monzo.
Monzo confirmed Mr M had authorised the card transaction on his Monzo bank app and 
didnt intend to refund him. Mr M was upset as both of his credit card companies had 
refunded him for disputed transactions. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt the evidence showed it was most likely Mr M had authorised the card 
transaction on his app.
Still unhappy, Mr M has asked an ombudsman to make a decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ms complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Ms case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Monzo Bank and Mr M have told us.
We have a timeline of events which show the logons to Mr Ms Mozo Bank app, the disputed 
transaction for £999 as well as the transfers Mr M doesnt dispute he made before and after 
the fraudulent one.
Ive reached out to one of the banks that Mr M has told us called him earlier that day to 
forewarn him about being a victim of fraud. Theres no information available to confirm 
exactly what happened. Mr M doesnt believe hed been a victim of any scam as at no stage 
was he asked to make payments or transfers to keep his money safe (or otherwise). But 
overall I see no reason why Mr M wouldnt be telling the truth about being contacted.
However taking that into account, I can see Mr M was regularly checking his Monzo account 
that day and evening. He transferred money in. Hes told us this was to keep his money safe 
and in one place. 
Monzo has confirmed the card transaction that Mr M has subsequently disputed required an 
additional form of authentication. This was done on Mr Ms Monzo banking app. Mr M cant 
say for sure that he didnt do this and has explained to us that he was extremely worried 
about what was happening to his finances. He doesnt think he authorised this transaction on 
his app but cant be categorical that he didnt.
I think its most likely he did authorise this transaction  whether he meant to or not. This is 
backed up by the records Monzo shared with us. Immediately after authorising this 
transaction, Mr M transferred the remaining funds in his account to a friend. The following 
day the friend transferred this money back. These facts do back up Mr Ms story that he was 
keeping his money safe but I should stress this all happened after Mr M would have seen the 
£999 transaction on his account. He didnt raise this dispute with Monzo straightaway.
Im sure Mr M feels very aggrieved but overall Im satisfied he authorised the transaction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman