DRN-3724653
The complaint
Mr S complains that Funding Circle Ltd unfairly removed the opportunity for him to sell his 
peer-to-peer crowdfunding loans on its secondary market. 
What happened
Mr S opened a peer-to-peer (P2P) crowdfunding account with Funding Circle in July 2017 
and an Innovative Finance ISA (IFISA) account in April 2019. Funding Circles platform 
allowed investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for interest payments. 
Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This provided a way for investors 
to access their money early by selling their loan parts to other investors by way of a 
secondary market. 
In April 2020 Funding Circle made the decision to temporarily pause the secondary market 
and to stop new retail lending as part of its ongoing measures to protect investor returns 
while it evaluated the potential impact of Covid-19 pandemic. This meant that investors were 
no longer able to access their money early by selling their loan parts before the loans 
matured. 
Mr S complained to Funding Circle as he felt it was unfair for it to remove the option for him 
to be able to sell his loan parts early on the secondary market. He said he would never have 
invested through the platform if he knew there was no chance of selling his loan parts early. 
Funding Circle considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the ability to sell loan 
parts on the secondary market wasnt ever guaranteed and this was made clear in its terms 
and conditions. 
Mr S remained unhappy with Funding Circles response and so he referred his complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
An investigator at this service considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. She 
explained that Funding Circles terms made it sufficiently clear that there was no guarantee 
that loan parts would be sold on the secondary market. She said that Funding Circles 
decision to pause its secondary market was a commercial decision and isnt something our 
service can comment on. However, shed considered whether Mr S had been treated fairly 
as a result of its decision. She explained that Funding Circles regulatory obligations meant 
that it needed to fairly and appropriately price loans sold on the secondary market and she 
explained that the conditions caused by the uncertainty of the Covid-19 pandemic meant that 
it wasnt possible for Funding Circle to do this. She also said that Funding Circles terms and 
conditions explained that it could make changes to the services it provides and so she felt 
Funding Circles decision to pause the secondary market and eventually close it was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators opinion as he felt he was misled by Funding Circle 
regarding his ability to sell his loan parts when opening his accounts. 
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered Funding Circles regulatory obligations. Funding 
Circle is authorised and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA 
regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and 
guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are: 
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
COBS 18.12.17R Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is 
facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm 
must ensure that the price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and 
appropriate. 
Funding Circle needed to ensure that the information it gave Mr S regarding his accounts 
was clear, fair and not misleading. It also needed to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and, more specifically in this case, ensure any price offered for exiting loan parts 
was fair and appropriate. 
Funding Circles terms and conditions relevant at the time Mr S opened his account 
explained:
10.2 You can withdraw available funds that have not been lent or allocated for 
lending from your Investor Account. If you want to have access to any funds that 
have already been lent, you will need to transfer your Loan Parts by selling them to 
other Investors.
[...] 
10.6. There is no guarantee that your Loan Parts will be transferred, nor any 
assurance as to how long it may take to do so. 
From these terms and conditions, I think Funding Circle made it clear to Mr S that if he 
wanted to access his funds early he would need to either withdraw what funds he had 
available or attempt to sell his loan parts early to other investors. Whilst the secondary market provided an option for Mr S to explore when looking to access his funds early, 
Funding Circle made him aware that his ability to sell loan parts in this way was never 
guaranteed. 
This point is also made clear throughout Funding Circles website and investor guide which 
further explains that the ability to do so depends on there being demand from other 
investors. I appreciate Funding Circle didnt explain it could pause the secondary market on 
a temporary basis (or on a permanent basis as it eventually did) but I dont think this renders 
the promotion of investing through Funding Circle misleading. Im satisfied that enough 
information was given to Mr S to make him aware that selling via the secondary market 
wasnt guaranteed and he ought to have only invested if he was happy with the risk of not 
being able to exit early. 
Funding Circle has explained why it decided to pause the secondary market. 
Notwithstanding the fact that I don't think it was guaranteed or contractual, Ive considered 
its reasons and think they're also fair and reasonable in the circumstances it faced during the 
onset of the global pandemic. As outlined above, Funding Circle must ensure that it fairly 
and appropriately prices loan parts sold on the secondary market. Clearly, its ability to do so 
had been impaired by the pandemic. Generally, investee businesses ability to repay loans 
had been affected by the pandemic which in turn made lending riskier. Ultimately, Funding 
Circles choice to pause the secondary market is a commercial decision which its entitled to 
make. This isnt something this service can change. Instead Ive looked at whether Mr S has 
been treated unfairly as a result of that decision. Whilst I appreciate Funding Circles 
decision to pause the secondary market is inconvenient for Mr S wants access his money 
straightaway, Im conscious that allowing him to sell his loan parts to other investors could 
be unfair due to the increased risk of the loans defaulting and capital lost. Whilst its not clear 
to what degree the risk of Mr Ss loan parts has increased, its not my role to determine this. 
Funding Circle has also provided further reasons for pausing and then closing its secondary 
market since the complaint has been passed to me. From these, its clear that there were 
several considerations which Funding Circle has thought about whilst implementing the 
pause to the secondary market. These include difficulty with pricing, a change in lending 
focus, diversification and illiquidity. Clearly market conditions meant that Funding Circle 
made the decision to not to take on new loans and consequently to not have a secondary 
market. Uncertainty continued for a long period due to the impact of the pandemic on the 
wider economy. During this time, Funding Circle made commercial decisions on changes to 
its operations and has focused away from P2P lending. Funding Circle wasnt prohibited 
from making decisions it benefited from, as long as it took the interests of its customers into 
account first. And for the reasons Ive given, Im persuaded thats what it did, especially 
considering the ability to sell via the secondary market was never guaranteed. Mr S has 
continued to receive interest on his loan parts and has the ability to withdraw his loan 
repayments and so I dont think hes been treated unfairly as a result of Funding Circles 
decision.  
I also think its important to also note that even if Funding Circle hadnt made the decision to 
temporarily pause and remove the secondary market, its not clear whether Mr S would have 
been able to sell his loan parts to other investors. Clearly investor appetite had diminished 
due to the global pandemic and Funding Circle has explained that queues to sell on the 
secondary market had increased considerably go directly to new loans on the platform rather 
than to loans on the secondary market. So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied Funding Circles decision was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances and Im not persuaded Mr S has been treated unfairly as 
a result of Funding Circles decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman