DRN-2151202
The complaint
Mr L complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as APS Financial 
(Cashplus) incorrectly reported a closed account as being open. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
- Cashplus reported incorrect information on Mr Ls credit file for around six years. I 
agree with the investigator that Mr Ls credit file needs to be amended as part of the 
resolution of this complaint. 
- Cashplus accepts that it should have reported Mr Ls account as closed from 
22 July 2014 but failed to do so. 
- Cashplus says Mr C contacted it about this issue in March 2019 and that a dispute 
was later raised via one of the credit reference agencies in September 2019. In 2020 
Mr L raised a complaint because the information hadnt been amended. Cashplus 
final response dated 30 April 2020 said the information would be corrected. Despite 
Cashplus assurances, the evidence shows the correction wasnt made. 
- Im satisfied Mr L has had to raise this matter several times which has caused 
inconvenience to him. 
- Our investigator asked Cashplus to amend Mr Ls credit file, confirm the correction in 
writing and pay him £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions. 
Im satisfied that this settlement reflects the impact of Cashplus actions on Mr L and 
is fair in all the circumstances. 
 Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Cashplus should: 
- Ensure necessary corrections to Mr Ls credit file are made to show the account as 
being closed from 22 July 2014. Cashplus should contact Mr L 60 days after the 
amendment has been made to confirm it has been correctly processed.
- Send Mr L a letter confirming the closure date of his account. 
- Pay Mr L £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  
trading as APS Financial (Cashplus) to settle in line with the guidance set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman