DRN-3358111
The complaint
Mr L complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt refund 
interest and correct his credit file after he was the victim of fraud.
What happened
Mr L says he disputed a payment of £1,331.36 (sterling equivalent) made abroad with his 
card on 1 January 2020. Amex eventually refunded the payment, but he wanted the interest 
to be recalculated and his damaged credit record amended.
Amex said that it had refunded the payment and paid Mr L a goodwill gesture of £150. He 
had a significantly higher balance on his account, and he hadnt maintained payments while 
the payment was being disputed. So, it wouldnt be doing anything more. When it submitted 
its business file to this service it gave the impression that it had made the refund in error and 
that it had changed its position.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He looked at whether he 
thought it most likely that the payment was authorised. He noted that the payment had been 
made when the chip on the genuine card had been read and the correct PIN entered. Mr L 
had said that the card was in his possession and he hadnt given the PIN to anyone. And 
that he was at the location and had made an earlier payment to the same merchant for 
£2.34. By entering his PIN for this transaction, he had authorised it. Our investigator noted 
that Amex had tried to challenge the payment with the merchant and hadnt received a 
response.
Mr L had said that he believed he was owed £440 for the interest charged by February 2021 
and that this would increase as time passed. But our investigator said that Amex had already 
done more than he would have asked it to. Mr L was reasonably required to maintain 
payments on his account. There was a large balance on the account 
Mr L didnt agree. He didnt think that any mistake by Amex in making the refund should 
have been held against him. He was unhappy with the impression being given that he had 
got away with fraud and thought that he was being discriminated against. He wanted a 
refund of the interest and he wasnt happy with the outcome.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 January 2022. I set out below what I 
said.
Through our investigator Id asked Amex to help by clarifying its position on this complaint. It 
explained that it had upheld it in Mr Ls favour. It had first tried to deal with this by 
chargeback. This is because it had the impression that Mr L had been at the merchants and 
that this was a dispute about the amount paid. It hadnt despite efforts been able to get 
information from the merchant. It had then passed the review to its fraud team. While it was 
concerned about the way this payment was made by chip and PIN it then spoke again to   
Mr L in October 2020 and decided that he hadnt authorised it. Amex wasnt able to provide 
a recording of that call. It had then discussed the interest and charges to the account. And it 
had paid Mr L £150.
It explained that this was a gesture  of goodwill as it wasnt able to calculate exactly what the 
interest charge in relation to this payment had been. It said that for a significant period 
before the final refund the payment had been suspended on the account which meant that it 
wasnt attracting interest or charges. It said that the amount of £150 was more than the 
interest charged. So, it didnt consider that Mr L was out of pocket.
I found this further explanation helpful and I wanted to summarise this for Mr L before I 
issued a final decision on the complaint.
While I could see why our investigator considered the question of authorisation, I said I 
wasnt going to. I didnt need to go behind the fact that Mr L was refunded. And that was the 
position set out in the final response. However, I didnt doubt that looking into this disputed 
payment wasnt straightforward and that there had been different views expressed at Amex 
before a final review with Mr L. So, I didnt need to make a finding about whether Mr L 
authorised the payment because Amex accepted that he didnt.
Id looked at his statements. First I considered that Mr L had a responsibility to maintain 
payments on his account. His balance was considerably more than this disputed amount. 
And while I didnt doubt his frustration at this matter not being resolved sooner I didnt think 
that gave him a reason not to make at least the minimum payment. So, I knew hed be 
unhappy when I said that the pattern of missed payments which hes shown on a copy of his 
credit report is a fair reflection of what happened. Any required minimum payments he did 
make would have reduced the balance that accrued interest and avoided late payment fees.
Id also looked at the detail about the suspension of this payment. There is reference to this 
on a number of his statements and this supports what Amex says about this. I noted that the 
interest rate on the account was a compound annual rate of 22.9% on purchases. I saw no 
basis for Mr Ls claim to be owed £440 in interest as he says based on the amount in dispute 
and the period over which it was considered.
I explained that we dont have any specialist accounting function to enable me to calculate 
the exact interest on this payment. And thats especially as Amex, the expert here, says that 
its not in a position to do so with any accuracy. Instead it has taken a view and I didnt have 
reason to doubt what it says about the interest involved with this specific payment taking into 
account the times when it was suspended.
So, my provisional decision was that I wouldnt be asking Amex to do anything further. Thats 
for different reasons to our investigator and doesnt imply anything other than Mr L didnt 
make this payment. I thought that there were reasons which made reaching that outcome 
more involved for Amex. And taking that into account I didnt find that Amex has other than 
put Mr L back in the position he ought to have been in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex didnt make any further comments.
Mr L provided his comments about the payment and the interest. He said that he had never said he was at the location of this merchant. He wasnt in the city in the country where the 
disputed payment was made but a different one. He hadnt questioned an initial payment to 
the merchant because it was very low and didnt care about it. Mr L said he had asked 
multiple times for the invoice as he didnt know the merchant involved. He provided a copy of 
his text response to Amex saying he didnt recognise the payment. He was told by Amex to 
relax and has a transcript of that call. He had mentioned he had been using his card and 
the details had been swiped and the PIN input at a different merchant and his PIN perhaps 
could have been seen.
The disputed payments werent supposed to be there but showed on his account for a 
number of months. He didnt understand why Amex couldnt calculate the interest. He 
provided a card statement for February 2021 showing that the closing balance was then 
£1,378.52 and the interest debited £45.40. Thats why over the ten-month period he has 
been asking for some £450 in interest refunded. Mr L said that he understood why I dont 
think it was wrong for missed payments to be shown but doesnt agree.
I note the further comments Mr L made about the disputed payments. I had already seen the 
text and a transcript of the call he had with Amex on 1 January 2020. Amex accepts he didnt 
authorise the larger payment as I set out in my provisional decision and I now also note that 
on 7 October 2020 he was in fact refunded for £1,333.70  so both amounts.
I appreciate Mr L is unhappy with the amount of compensation in light of the interest he paid. 
Id looked at his statements before I issued my provisional decision. I want to make a couple 
of points specifically about the statement hes now referred to. The interest that month of 
£45.40 relates to what happened on his account in the preceding month. His opening 
balance in that period was over £3,000 and I can see he then made repayments.
The statement gives the monthly simple interest rate at 1.68%. If I apply that to a balance of 
some £1,334 - the amount disputed - it would result in an interest charge of £22.41. I accept 
that this is a rough calculation that doesnt adjust for days in the month or any 
compounding. But I give this to show that I dont think that an interest claim of £45 a month 
as Mr L wants is reasonable.
Im also satisfied from looking at his statements that as Amex says although the amount was 
showing in the balance it was for a number of periods suspended so no interest was being 
applied. I can understand why Mr L is perplexed that Amex cant provide a detailed 
calculation. But the position is that I asked it to do so and it said it couldnt but assured me 
that the amount of compensation isnt less than that interest. 
Im not in a position to make that calculation myself as Ive explained. So, I need to consider 
what Mr L and Amex have said and decide what is fair and reasonable. Having done so and 
in light of what I said about interest above I consider that Amex has made a reasonable offer 
to resolve the complaint and put Mr L in the position he should have been in. I note what he 
says about the missed payments, but I havent changed my view about that either. Im afraid 
I wont be departing from what I said in my provisional decision for the reasons Ive 
explained.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint on the basis that American Express 
Services Europe Limited (AESEL) need do no more than it has already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman