DRN-3819433
The complaint
Mrs R complains ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) didnt administer her account properly. In 
particular she says ITI Capital failed to give her timely access to her account and took too 
long to transfer her account out to her new provider. 
What happened
Mrs R expected access to her ITI Capital account in July 2020. When she gained access in 
August 2020, she says her holdings werent showing correctly. She decided to transfer her 
account from ITI Capital. She started this process in August 2020 and her account wasnt 
transferred until November 2020. She says her cash didnt arrive there until May 2021. 
Mrs R says ITI Capital told her in November 2020 three lines of stock couldnt be transferred 
and it would be in touch with her about this. She says she asked ITI Capital about this 
towards the end of November 2020. She says she heard nothing more despite having sent 
emails about it to various parties at ITI Capital.
Mrs R says due to her limited account access she wasnt able to trade existing positions for 
the new positions she wanted. She says it wasnt possible to reach ITI Capitals dealing desk 
by phone at the time. She would like compensation for the time spent and stress and worry 
suffered. She says ITI Capitals offer is inadequate redress for all this.
ITI Capitals offer was made towards the end of December 2020 and related to the delay in 
giving Mrs R access to her account and the delay in completing the transfer. ITI Capital 
acknowledged unnecessary delay in both these matters and also apologised for its service 
including not responding to a number of emails Mrs R had sent. It offered Mrs R £75.
ITI Capital said at that time that Mrs R had three lines of untradable stock  referring to the 
shares that werent transferred in November 2020. ITI Capital said Mrs R could either keep 
these at ITI Capital in case they became tradeable or she could pay to convert them to 
certificated form and have the certificates sent to her.
Our investigator considered Mrs Rs complaint. Our investigator didnt recommend redress 
for lost trading profits as our investigator thought there wasnt enough evidence to show 
what Mrs R might have done on her account if she couldve traded. But our investigator said 
ITI Capital should pay Mrs R £300 for distress and inconvenience. Our investigator thought 
Mrs R suffered distress and inconvenience due to ITI Capitals failings - in particular due to 
Mrs R not having full account access and the transfer from ITI Capital taking much too long.
Mrs R has raised no objection to our investigators findings. ITI Capital did not reply. 
We have since asked ITI Capital for any final comments it wishes to make but ITI Capital 
hasnt given us anything new.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive arrived at the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded ITI Capital failed to provide Mrs R with proper access to 
her account in a timely manner while it held the account. Im also persuaded ITI Capital took 
too long to complete the transfer to Mrs Rs new provider. 
Bearing in mind what Mrs R has told us, Im persuaded these failings of ITI Capital caused 
Mrs R inconvenience and distress. It is appropriate that ITI Capital compensates her for this. 
In my view £300 would be fair and reasonable redress for this. 
I say this bearing in mind that Ive seen nothing from ITI Capital that makes me think this 
wouldnt be fair. Also I share our investigators view that redress for trading losses is not due 
here, as what I have isnt enough to persuade me of exactly what trades, and so what profits 
or losses, Mrs R might have made had she had timely access to her account.
So I uphold Mrs Rs complaint on the basis and to the extent Ive set out above.
Putting things right
To put things right and compensate Mrs R for inconvenience and distress caused to her by 
ITI Capital Limiteds failings, ITI Capital Limited should pay Mrs R £300.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. ITI Capital Limited should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman