DRN-1057826
 
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the way Metro Bank PLC (Metro) dealt with her concern about an 
incorrect text message saying her personal bank account was overdrawn.  
What happened
Ms C received a text message saying her account was overdrawn. She didnt think it was so 
she went to her local Metro branch to find out. The branch wasnt open and a member of 
staff said shed have to wait until the branch opened. Ms C tried the ATM but she couldnt 
check her balance. She was unhappy with having to wait for the branch to open and called 
the contact centre. 
The contact centre agent apologised to Ms C, explaining that a text message had been sent 
by mistake to all of Metros customers and its ATMs werent working properly because of a 
system upgrade. Metro said she could still use her card for payments or to withdraw cash if 
she selected the cash only option on the ATM. Ms C remained unhappy and complained to 
Metro. 
Metro explained how it had notified customers of the planned system upgrade but accepted 
that Ms C still hadnt been aware. It upheld her complaint and sent Ms C a written apology 
for sending the text message. Ms C didnt think the apology was enough for the upset Metro 
had caused her.
Our investigator felt that Metro had done enough to resolve Ms Cs complaint. He noted that 
the branch she visited was due to open 40 minutes later and its staff wouldve helped then. 
He also felt that the inconvenience Metro caused Ms C was relatively short-lived. It 
explained the reasons for the mistake and apologised straight away, as well as later in 
writing. 
Ms C didnt agree. She thought that Metro should pay her compensation for the distress, 
upset, inconvenience and frustration it caused her.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I dont underestimate the worry that Ms C mustve experienced when she received the 
text message, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Both Ms C and Metro agree on the following facts:
Metro sent a text message by mistake telling Ms C her account was overdrawn;
she attended the branch before its advertised opening hour;the ATM didnt provide an account balance;
the contact centre explained about the system upgrade and apologised for the upset 
caused, and
Metro upheld Ms Cs complaint and sent her a written apology.
 
The only remaining point is whether Metro has done enough to put matters right. Ms C 
asked for financial compensation to resolve her complaint so Ive looked at whether Metro 
couldve done more. 
Metro was closed when Ms C visited the branch, which was due to open 40 minutes later in 
keeping with its advertised hours. While I accept that Ms C hoped staff would clear up the 
matter for her straight away, I think its reasonable to assume it wouldve done if it had been 
open when she arrived. Other options were available to Ms C outside its opening hours so I 
think it was fair for Metro to ask her to wait until it opened. I dont think Metro did anything 
wrong here.
One of the options available to Ms C was Metros contact centre. She called and it explained 
what had happened and how she could continue to use her account. Metro apologised for 
the worry it caused. At this point, Metro had told Ms C the text was sent by mistake; her 
account wasnt overdrawn; the ATM was available for cash until the system upgrade was 
done, and it had apologised for any upset caused. Metro did all of this when Ms C first called 
and I dont think there was anything more it shouldve done to put matters right. 
I realise Ms C would like financial compensation but I dont think Metros actions warrant 
anything more than the apology it has already given.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman