DRN-3717917
The complaint
Ms K has complained about National House-Building Council (NHBC). She feels it hasnt 
treated her fairly after she made a claim on her building warranty policy in relation to her 
stairs.
What happened
Ms K bought a new-build property that was covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. 
After a period of just under 10 years she had a problem with her stairs and so she made a 
claim under her policy. But when NHBC looked into the claim it turned it down. Its appointed 
expert inspected the stairs in Ms Ks property and although he acknowledged they creaked 
and were noisy he didnt think they were defective - highlighting that the stairs held a normal 
load and werent dangerous. 
Ms K wasnt happy about this, so she complained to NHBC. It maintained its position and so 
Ms K complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms K but didnt uphold her complaint. She considered 
the reports Ms K provided in support of her claim that her stairs were defective. But she 
didnt think NHBC had acted unreasonably in relying on its own inspectors report which said 
the stairs were creaking, but were intact, secure, supporting normal loads, and there was no 
evidence of physical damage.
As Ms K didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can understand why Ms K is frustrated and feels her claim should be met. 
But I have to be fair to both sides when I consider claims and when weighing up the 
evidence I dont think NHBC has acted unfairly here in relying on its investigation report in 
declining the claim. 
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I have considered Ms Ks joiners report which suggests that the stairs are starting to fail and 
are getting progressively worse and identifies other issues with properties in the area. But 
this report isnt as detailed and thorough as NHBCs investigation report which has a more 
detailed explanation and photographic evidence supporting their findings. And I wouldnt 
expect NHBC to consider what did or didnt happen at other properties in the locality in 
forming its view, especially when it undertook a full inspection of her property. Ive also noted 
Ms Ks comments from a structural engineer she contacted about the expected lifetime of a 
staircase generally and the load capacity. However, I note this engineers comments are 
general and they didnt attend her property to physically inspect her stairs. 
NHBC has explained that the policy only covers physical damage to staircases if they fail to 
support normal load caused by a defect. And NHBCs investigation report says, As there 
was no damage present to a part of the home listed under section 3, and as the staircase 
was found to be supporting normal loads, the criteria required for a valid claim was not met. 
And goes on to say Trafficking over the staircase finds creaking under load, primarily from a 
number of the kite winders (tapered treads). Pulling back the edge of the carpet finds the 
joints between the risers and treads to be intact and secure. There was no evidence of the 
staircase failing to offer adequate support to normal loads or foot traffic over the stair. 
I know Ms K disputes the position outlined here by NHBC and its inspection report, but I find 
it more persuasive having considered the evidence provided by both sides here. I note Ms K 
has raised a general discussion point about the life expectancy of a staircase but NHBCs 
warranty is for 10 years and having attended and inspected the stairs it feels that they are 
providing adequate support to normal loads. So, in effect, it is satisfied the stairs are 
functioning adequately now under a normal load or foot traffic. 
Given all of this, I cant say NHBC has acted unreasonably in relying on its inspection report 
having attended Ms Ks house and inspected the stairway, which failed to identify any 
physical damage that required rectifying. I know Ms Ks report suggests otherwise but her 
report isnt as detailed as NHBCs which has photographs supporting its position as well. So, 
although I accept that the stairs are creaking, which they often do, Im not asking NHBC to 
do anymore here. If Ms K does provide any further evidence in support of her claim then I 
would expect NHBC to consider this.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman