DRN-2337715
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc agreed a repayment plan with him but then 
proceeded to default his accounts.
What happened
Mr S had two credit card accounts with Capital One. He says he contacted Capital One on 
22 July 2020. He asked it to set up a repayment plan on his accounts. He says Capital One 
agreed the terms of two repayment plans for his accounts. He says he made arrangements 
with his bank to make the payments.
Mr S says that Capital One contacted him again on 28 July 2020. It told him it couldnt set up 
the repayment plans. He says it told him he would have to pay the full amount due on both of 
his accounts immediately otherwise the accounts would default. Mr S complained to Capital 
One.
Capital One investigated his complaint. It acknowledged it had made an error when it agreed 
the repayment plans with Mr S on 22 July 2020. It said it wasnt possible to set up the 
repayment plans because of the status of Mr Ss accounts. It said itd agreed repayment 
plans with him on four previous occasions but hed only made one payment.
Capital One said it had sent Mr S default notices on 4 July 2020 which required him to pay 
the full amount outstanding on both of his accounts by 1 August 2020. He hadnt done that 
and that was why his accounts had defaulted on 5 August 2020. Capital One apologised for 
the mistake it had made on 22 July 2020, but it said it wouldnt remove the default. It did 
agree to pay Mr S £50 for distress and inconvenience because of errors it had made when 
corresponding with him about his complaint. It credited £50 to his account in August 2020.
Mr S wasnt satisfied. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
his complaint. She said Capital One had offered to pay Mr S a further £100 to settle his 
complaint. Mr S declined this offer.
Our investigator thought that Capital One had made a genuine mistake when it agreed the 
terms of the repayment plans on 22 July 2020. She said it had apologised for this error and it 
had come back to Mr S reasonably quickly to tell him about its mistake. So, she thought the 
offer which Capital One had made to pay Mr S an extra £100 for distress and inconvenience 
was fair and reasonable.
She also considered what Mr S had said about the defaults having been entered on his 
accounts. She said Capital One had sent him letters about his arrears and default notices on 
several occasions. So, she didnt think it had made an error when it had entered the defaults. 
She didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S didnt agree. He said our investigator hadnt understood his complaint. He said it was 
unreasonable for Capital One to have unilaterally changed a payment plan and demanded 
payment at the last minute. 
Our investigator didnt change her view. Because Mr S didnt agree the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S phoned Capital One on 22 July 2020. He had trouble getting through the security 
procedures on the call and thats why he was referred to the complaints team. Ive listened to 
the call. And, during the call, Capital One did agree the terms of repayment plans with Mr S, 
which he accepted. He was given payment details and told that a letter would be sent to 
confirm the plans.
On 28 July 2020 Capital One contacted Mr S again. It told him it had made a mistake and 
because of the status of his accounts it couldnt proceed with the arrangements for the 
payment plans. It told Mr S hed have to pay the full amount outstanding on both accounts by 
1 August 2020 otherwise defaults would be entered.
Mr S says it isnt acceptable for Capital One to unilaterally withdraw its agreement to the 
repayment plans. And, he says he hadnt enough time to pay the amount that was 
requested. He says Capital One was going back on what it had agreed just a few days 
earlier.
Ive thought about the circumstances leading up to these events. I can see that Mr S had 
received a default notice from Capital One dated 4 July 2020. A default notice is a formal 
notice that requires immediate action. But, this wasnt the first time Mr S had received a 
default notice for his accounts. 
I can see hed previously received similar notices in March 2020 and May 2020. On both of 
those occasions Capital One had agreed not to default the accounts because Mr S agreed 
repayment plans with it. But Mr S hadnt made any payments under either of those plans. 
Thered also been repayment plans agreed in September 2019 and December 2019. Mr S 
had only made one payment under those plans.
So, Mr S had been given several previous opportunities to avoid the accounts being 
defaulted and to reduce the amount outstanding. But he hadnt kept to the plans hed 
agreed.
When a customer explains to his lender that hes in financial difficulties, wed expect it to 
treat him positively and sympathetically. But that doesnt mean it has to continue to offer 
repayment plans where the customer hasnt made the payments expected. And, having 
looked at the history of Mr Ss accounts and his repeated failure to make the payments hed 
agreed to make under several repayment plans, I can see why Capital One decided it 
wouldnt make any further plans with him. I agree with our investigators view that when it 
said it would do so during the call on 22 July it made a mistake.
It did contact Mr S the following week to tell him about its mistake and to explain he needed 
to take the action set out in the default notice by the date which appeared on that notice. 
Thats why he was asked to pay the full amount by 1 August 2020. 
I can understand why Mr S says he was being asked to pay a large sum of money at the last 
minute, with only a few days before the deadline for payment. But, Capital One was only 
restating what hed already been told in the default notice which had been issued on 4 July 
2020. The amount due hadnt changed since then.Having considered all of the circumstances, including Mr Ss failure to keep to the terms of 
several previous repayment plans, I dont think Capital One acted unfairly when it told him it 
had made a mistake and his account would be defaulted if he didnt repay the full amount. 
Capital One has apologised for the mistake it made, and it has acknowledged it made errors 
in the correspondence it sent to Mr S about his complaint. Its already credited his account 
with £50 in August 2020. And, its offered to pay Mr S an additional £100 by way of 
compensation (being £150 in total) to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. I dont require it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc.
Capital One has already offered to pay Mr S an additional £100 (being £150 in total) to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc should pay Mr S an additional £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman