DRN-2835281
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the advice he received from IFPC Limited to transfer the benefits 
from a buyout plan to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In 2018 Mr S sought advice from IFPC. He was 54, in good health, married with children and 
had given up work. He had substantial assets and was interested in transferring the benefits 
from a buyout plan to a SIPP. IFPC advised Mr S that transferring was suitable. The transfer 
went ahead. Mr Ss transfer value, which was a little over £300,000, was invested in an 
investment trust that Mr S had chosen himself based on his own previous experience, 
knowledge and risk appetite.
In 2019, Mr S queried IFPC about the transfer value multiple it had quoted in its August 2018
recommendations report. He thought it had been overstated. He says he may well have 
waited to transfer if the multiple had been stated as being lower (which he thinks it should 
have been) and he says he may not have transferred at any point as a result. IFPC originally 
agreed that the multiple had been overstated. But, after looking into the matter again, it said 
the number had been correct. Mr S referred his complaint to us. He remained concerned 
about the transfer value multiple. And this, along with some other concerns he had about the 
recommendations report, prompted him to broaden out his complaint to the overall suitability 
of the advice he had been given.
Our investigator concluded that the advice to transfer had been suitable. He came to this 
conclusion because he thought Mr Ss chosen investment vehicle would likely generate the 
necessary returns to keep pace with the benefits he was giving up (the so-called critical 
yield) and because Mr S had expressed an interest in passing his pension on to his children 
in the event of his death which transferring to a SIPP would allow him to do.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings. In particular, he didnt think the investigator
had correctly assessed the potential returns of his new arrangement. He thought it unlikely
that he could match the critical yield. And he says any interest in passing on his pension
wouldnt have been pursued if it meant he had a good chance of essentially having a less 
valuable pension as a result. The matter was therefore referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision in which I concluded that the advice to transfer had been 
unsuitable. I came to this conclusion because I thought the critical yield was too high to be 
realistically achievable and because I didnt think there were other compelling reasons to 
consider the transfer as being in Mr Ss best interests. 
In my provisional decision I said:
When advising on a transfer from a pension with safeguarded benefits, as was the case
here, an adviser should start by assuming the transfer is unsuitable. The transfer can only be
considered suitable if it can be clearly demonstrated that the transfer is in a clients best
interests (COBS 19.1.6 G).
I dont think IFPC can clearly demonstrate the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. I say this
because theres a very real risk that Mr Ss new arrangement wont generate the returns
needed for him to be able to replicate the benefits in retirement that his old plan had. I think
its reasonable to say that advice that has a good chance of resulting in a diminution in the
value of pension benefits in this way is unlikely to be in someones best interests unless
there are very good reasons for why that person would want to make such a sacrifice. I dont
think that applies here. Ill explain in more detail.
In its August 2018 recommendations report, IFPC addressed this issue as follows:
The critical yield is the growth rate from which the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV)
must grow until age 60 in order to provide a capital sum which is sufficient enough to replace
the benefits (income inflation and death benefits) which are lost on transferring.
In order for the transferred benefits to match the benefits of your existing scheme the
growth rate required from the new scheme would be 9 27% per annumShould you take
the maximum tax free cash the critical yield [is] 7.90%
I think its reasonable to assume Mr S will take his tax-free cash at age 60 so I will proceed
on the basis of 7.9% p.a. being the relevant figure here. I think its a figure that would have
been very difficult to achieve.
IFPCs advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future discount rates in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses werent required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable at a particular point in time.
The closest discount rate to the time of Mr Ss advice which I'm able to refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. Its
3.3% p.a. for individuals with six years to retirement (which was the case for Mr S). This is
less  considerably less  than the critical yield of 7.9% p.a., meaning Mr S would have, on
this basis, a reasonable expectation of having insufficient funds to replicate the benefits he
had given up.
That said, Mr Ss chosen investment trust had a 100% allocation to equities at the time of
advice. Whilst this may well have changed since then, its fair to say the chosen investment
was a relatively aggressive one and that Mr S was comfortable with its aims and approach.
So I think the comparison discount rate quoted above  the 3.3% figure  isnt a fair
reflection of what Mr S could, reasonably, have expected over the longer term. I think a
higher figure is warranted.
However, even with this in mind, it still strikes me as being unlikely that Mr S could, 
reasonably, have expected returns far enough ahead of the critical yield to make the transfer
a viable option. Standard industry projections at the time for lower, intermediate and higher
returns were 2%, 5% and 8% p.a. respectively. So even under the most optimistic projection
used by the industry at the time, Mr Ss new arrangement would only just be beating the
critical yield. I would expect there to be far more daylight between the two to justify a 
transfer, otherwise Mr S would be taking on a significant degree of risk for not much 
apparent upside.
The same applies if I use the rate of return IFPC has assumed for Mr Ss new arrangement,
which is 8.2% p.a. (as detailed in Appendix B of the recommendations report). This looks tobe the based on its most optimistic growth assumption given different sections of the same
report (the section that deals with Mr Ss potential lifetime allowance tax charges and the
cashflow analysis section) use three growth rates: 0%, 4.1% and 8.2% p.a. But even using
8.2% p.a.  which was IFPCs most optimistic assumption  Mr S would only end up slightly
better off than he otherwise would have been. It makes the rationale for transferring marginal
at best.
IFPC was also unclear and misleading in the way it presented the returns Mr S could have
expected to achieve. In its recommendations report, it said:
I am satisfied that should you wish to match the benefits of your current scheme it is
probable but not guaranteed that you are able to do so. However it would be questionable if
you are able to generate this level of return on a consistent basis.
Saying it was probable that Mr S would generate the necessary returns to match the
benefits he was giving up was, in my view, an exaggeration. Achieving returns in the region
of 7.9% to 9.3% p.a. for the period between 2018 (the date of transfer) and 2024 (when Mr S
reaches 60) is possible of course, but Ive seen nothing that makes me think returns of this
magnitude are probable  and saying so creates a misleading picture of the risks Mr S was
taking on. I dont need to labour the point because IFPC itself goes on to say achieving this
level of return consistently would be questionable. I think this is probably more in line with
the reality of the situation. But it appears inconsistent with what it said previously. And, more
importantly, it calls into question the likelihood of Mr S achieving returns ahead of the critical
yield.
Given the risks involved in transferring, and the very real possibility of returns falling short of
the critical yield, Im not persuaded the transfer was the right advice here given the high bar
set by the regulator. To recap, an adviser should start from the position that transferring
safeguarded benefits is unsuitable unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the transfer is
in the clients best interests. Based on the above, I dont think that can reasonably said to
apply here.
I might have thought differently had there been other compelling reasons for the transfer. But
I dont think there were. In its recommendations report, IFPC said Mr S wanted to pass any
unused pension on to his children or family in the event of his death. Its evident from the
casefile that this indeed was the case  Mr S did have an interest in doing this. However,
IFPCs role wasnt just to implement Mr Ss stated aims. Its role was to ensure the transfer
was suitable. With this in mind, I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr S would
have valued the opportunity to pass on his pension to such a degree that he would have
thought the trade-off  the very real risk of having a less valuable pension than he otherwise
would have had  was worth it.
Its also notable that Mr S had substantial other assets. So I think it reasonable to assume
that he would have ensured his children and family were catered for by other means rather
than going through with a transfer that would have achieved the same goal but at the cost of
the likely reduction in the value of his pension benefits. There may have been reasons why
using these other assets in this way wouldnt have been possible. But it doesnt look like this
was an area that was explored in any detail.
Thats not to say potential death benefits are always unimportant. If someones health is
particularly poor then the potential to pass on a relatively sizeable pension becomes a more
pressing concern. Likewise, if someone has few other assets then the opportunity to pass on
a pension may take on greater significance. But neither applies here. Mr S was in good
health and his other assets were significant enough that the need to pass on this pension
was, in my view, reduced as a result.IFPC also said the spouses benefits that came with Mr Ss pension werent needed because
Mrs S had her own financial arrangements that she could rely on in the event of Mr Ss
death. In IFPCs view, Mr S was better off being compensated for the spouses benefit
through the transfer value and using that credit for something more aligned to his familys
needs.
Its evident Mr and Mrs S were financially independent (and, for the record, this is something
IFPC did check with Mrs S). Even so, just because Mrs S didnt have a need for the
spouses benefits it doesnt necessarily follow that Mr S should have transferred. An adviser
needs to probe their clients understanding and motivations before advising them to give up
valuable, guaranteed, benefits and they need to analyse whether transferring really is in their
clients best interests. Unfortunately, that depth of analysis is missing here. It seems to me
IFPC hasnt considered anything beyond the fact that Mr and Mrs S could have given up
these benefits, and Mr Ss comments that he was comfortable doing so. Its a reasonable
starting point, but it isnt enough to evidence the suitability of its advice.
Given the above, I dont think IFPC has clearly demonstrated, or can clearly demonstrate,
that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. I think if it had acted as it should have done, it
wouldnt have advised Mr S to transfer and Mr S would have accepted that advice.
For the avoidance of doubt, I am not saying a difficult-to-beat critical yield should always
result in advice to not transfer. The starting point in the critical yield calculation is a
comparison of the benefits a person would have got at a point in time (retirement age) with
the cost of buying those same benefits (through an annuity) at the same point in time. But if
those benefits  in this case, a predictable, index-linked, income stream for life with
protection for a spouse in the event of death  are of secondary interest then pointing out the
difficulty of being able to replicate those benefits at retirement age is, arguably, of limited
use. In which case, a broader perspective and other analytical tools, are needed. Its an
argument IFPC made in its recommendations report:
Determining the critical yield is a requirement of our regulator when providing transfer
advice on a safeguarded benefit. However the critical yield in your specific circumstances is
less meaningful as you do not intend on securing an annuity in the future and it is likely you
will remain invested over a long duration with the intention of passing these funds to your
children. However it can still be used as a reference point to understand the potential value
of the guarantee and the level of risk which will be transferred from the scheme to you.
IFPC then goes on to look at Mr Ss potential cashflows over the entire course of his
retirement and concludes that his pension wouldnt be depleted by the age of 100 under its
central scenario (although it would be under some other scenarios).
Ive considered IFPCs argument carefully and whilst its reassuring that Mr Ss pension will,
in IFPCs view, likely outlast him, this doesnt change my thinking. First, it presupposes Mr S
had good reason for giving up his safeguarded benefits. As outlined above, I dont think
IFPC did enough to satisfactorily establish this. Second, even where there are sound
reasons to consider giving up safeguarded benefits, the critical yield still shines a spotlight
on the financial cost of doing so. This brings me back to the point I made earlier, which is
that given the critical yield Mr S was facing, he was likely to be in the position at the age of
60 of being unable to replicate the benefits he had given up. Or, to put it another way, his
new pension would, in effect, be worth less than what he had previously. I dont think many
people would think this is an acceptable position to be in whatever they had previously
thought about their pension or whatever the likelihood of their new pension seeing them
through retirement. I see no reason why Mr S would be any different in this respect, a point
which is confirmed when he emailed IFPC with concerns about the critical yield shortly afterhe received his recommendations report:
Just a heads up, one of the key issues for me is understanding the components
aggregating to the 9.27pc critical yield. If thats true growth rather than the effect of costs
I cant match that in [Mr Ss chosen investment trust] raising the question of why not wait
until 60 to transfer [14 August email from Mr S to IFPC]
IFPC responded to Mr Ss email by saying the real figure for him to beat was 3.76% p.a.
which was the return he needed to preserve the value of his transferred pension assuming a
certain level of withdrawals. As with IFPCs cashflow analysis, this is useful information. But
it doesnt get around the fact that the critical yield shouldnt be brushed aside in the way
IFPC seems to be suggesting. For the reasons given above, it is an important figure. The
regulatory position, which gives it a central role, confirms its importance (COBS 19.1). And
the fact that Mr S raised concerns about meeting the critical yield should have meant IFPC
was more alive to its importance.
IFPC may argue that Mr S was fully informed of, and understood, the risks and implications
of what he was doing. It will point to the warnings contained in its recommendations report
and Mr Ss own financial knowledge which, its fair to say, is above that of many investors. I
dont consider this to be a strong argument. IFPC had to take reasonable steps to ensure its
advice was suitable and in Mr Ss best interests. Providing information and risk warnings
isnt enough, important though they are.
IFPC may also argue that Mr S would have continued with the transfer even if he had been
advised against doing so. It may point to Mr Ss existing interest in transferring to support its
case (in fact, its one of the reasons why he engaged the services of IFPC). However, I
consider it more likely that Mr S would have listened to his adviser whatever that advice was.
Mr Ss 5 July 2018 email to IFPC is evidence of this:
So I now wish to push ahead with the DB transfer, and will put on hold the more holistic
work around my broader retirement plan until the DB transfer is complete (either by being
transferred, or not, if ultimately the advice is not to do so). [my emphasis]
Responses to my provisional decision
IFPCs response was detailed. I think its reasonable to group and summarise its points as 
follows:
Too much emphasis was placed on the critical yield. A range of factors should be 
considered when giving advice, a point made in the rules and in numerous places by the 
FCA.
Mr S wasnt necessarily looking to maximise retirement income; he was looking to 
maximise what he could leave to his children in the event he predeceased them. In that 
light, the advice was suitable.
In so far as the critical yield is a relevant measure, its important to note that Mr S was a 
higher risk investor. His investments grew by 16.95% p.a. in the five years prior to his 
advice.
Information about the critical yield was provided in a clear and fair manner. Given Mr S 
was experienced in financial matters, its reasonable to say he made an informed 
decision to proceed with the transfer.Even if IFPC had advised against the transfer, Mr S would have proceeded anyway on 
an insistent client basis.
Mr S has reformulated his complaint over time and some of his recollections are 
unreliable.
Mr S agreed with my provisional decision but also made a number of comments, mainly in 
relation to the calculation, and payment, of redress.
I address the comments made by IFPC and Mr S below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, this means Ive considered everything both parties have said. I 
will, however, limit my findings to those areas that impact on the outcome of the complaint.
Addressing IFPCs comments
In my provisional decision, I said a critical yield of 7.9% was too high to make the transfer 
viable given standard industry projections at the time for lower, intermediate and higher 
investment returns were 2%, 5% and 8% p.a. respectively. IFPCs most optimistic growth 
scenario was 8.2% p.a. My view was  and remains  that the critical yield was such that 
Mr S was put in the position of being unlikely to match the pension benefits he had given up. 
With this in mind, and because I didnt think there were other compelling reasons for why 
transferring was in Mr Ss best interests, I concluded the advice to transfer was unsuitable.
IFPC has pointed out that in the five-year period prior to seeking advice, Mr Ss investments 
grew by 16.95% p.a., which is significantly ahead of the critical yield. It has also pointed out 
that Mr S is knowledgeable with regards to financial matters and was willing to take on a 
high amount of risk with his investments.
As Im sure IFPC will acknowledge, past returns cant be used as a guide to what Mr Ss 
investments were likely to achieve following the transfer. I do, however, agree (as I did in my 
provisional decision) with its analysis of Mr Ss financial knowledge and attitude to risk. But 
Im satisfied this doesnt change the fundamental point that the critical yield  under all 
realistic scenarios  would have been difficult to meet. I dont need to labour the point as 
IFPC  which was aware of Mr Ss intended investment strategy  said much the same thing 
in the critical yield section of its recommendations report, in which it said it would be 
questionable whether Mr S would be able to generate the necessary returns on a 
consistent basis.
Notwithstanding this, IFPC says I placed too much emphasis on the critical yield in my 
provisional decision. It says a range of factors should be considered when advising on the 
suitability of transferring safeguarded benefits. It points to the following to support its 
argument:
Various passages from the FCA's Consultation Paper 17/16 (CP 17/16) 
An FCA announcement on its website dated 24 January 2017 which included a section 
called Recommendations based solely on critical yield, which says:"Our supervisory work has revealed that some firms have been recommending pension 
transfers based solely on whether or not the critical yield is below a certain rate set by 
the firm for assessing transfers generally. This does not meet our expectations. The 
critical yield is the rate of return that would have to be achieved in the defined 
contribution (DC) pension scheme to replicate the benefits of the DB benefit scheme. 
We would expect the firm to consider the likely expected returns of the assets in which 
the clients funds will be invested relative to the critical yield. The firm should also 
consider the personal circumstances of the client before making any personal 
recommendation, taking into account specific other factors as they apply to the client." 
[IFPCs emphasis]
COBS 19.1.7B (G) which says:
"If a firm has carried out the comparison in COBS 19.1.2R and has indicated a rate of 
return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the arrangement with 
safeguarded benefits, the firm should not regard this as sufficient in itself to ensure a 
personal recommendation is suitable."
COBS 19.1.6 (4) which states a number of factors an adviser should consider when 
considering whether a transfer is in a clients best interest, including the client's 
intentions for accessing pension benefits, their understanding of the benefits being given 
up, their attitude to investment risk, their retirement income needs, and whether there 
are alternative ways to achieve the clients objectives.   
With regards to the various passages quoted from CP 17/16, its worth noting that IFPC is 
quoting from a consultation paper, the aim of which was to propose rule changes and prompt 
discussion. It doesnt, in itself, have any bearing on what IFPC should have done here. 
Notwithstanding this, I consider it significant that IFPC quotes the following passage from 
that consultation paper:
"It remains our view that keeping safeguarded benefits will be in the best interests of most 
consumers. However, the introduction of the pension freedoms has altered the options 
available and for some consumers a transfer may now be suitable when it wasnt previously. 
We therefore propose to remove the existing guidance that an adviser should start from the 
assumption that a transfer will be unsuitable. This will be replaced with a statement in the 
Handbook that for most people retaining safeguarded benefits will likely be in their best 
interests and guidance that advisers should have regard to this. This will not require an 
assumption to be made by an adviser. An assessment of suitability should focus on whether 
a transaction is right for the individual and should be assessed on a case by case basis from 
a neutral starting position. The adviser needs to demonstrate that the transfer is in the best 
interests of the client." [IFPCs emphasis]
IFPC is incorrect to emphasise that the starting position with regards to transferring 
safeguarded benefits was neutral. Following the consultation paper (and before Mr Ss 
advice), the FCA explicitly decided against moving forward with its proposals in this area. It 
said:
We have decided not to proceed with our proposal on the starting assumption Given our 
concerns about the significant proportion of unsuitable advice, we do not consider it is 
appropriate to change this assumption at the present time. [Policy Statement PS18/6, 
March 2018]
And for the avoidance of doubt, COBS 19.1.6 G  which IFPC has quoted in its response  
said the following: When a firm is making a personal recommendation for a retail client who is, or is eligible to 
be, a member of a pension scheme with safeguarded benefits and who is considering 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out will not be suitable.
So there isnt any doubt here about what the regulatory position was at the time with regards 
to what IFPCs starting assumption should have been. Its disappointing IFPC is suggesting 
otherwise. 
I also think IFPCs interpretation of the FCAs approach to cases where the critical yield is 
likely to be met (as referenced in the 24 January 2017 FCA announcement and in COBS 
19.1.7B (G)) is incorrect. The FCAs concern is clearly those cases where advisers 
recommend a transfer solely because the critical yield is likely to be met without there being 
any other consideration as to why the client might benefit from the transfer. I think its 
stretching credibility to argue the corollary of this is that the critical yield is of secondary 
importance. The critical yield does matter. If its unlikely to be met, the other reasons for 
transferring would have to be that much more compelling to make a transfer suitable. 
Its worthwhile at this point to refer to COBS 19.1 in its entirety because a considerable 
amount of space and detail is given over to the comparison advisers have to make between 
the benefits under the ceding scheme, the benefits under the proposed new arrangement 
and the returns required to equalise the two. By making particular reference to COBS 19.1.6 
 which references other factors to consider when taking into account whats in the clients 
best interests  IFPC has overlooked the prominence the rules give to the comparison of 
scheme benefits.
That said, I accept IFPCs broader point that an adviser does need to take into account a 
variety of factors when considering a transfer of safeguarded benefits. But I acknowledged 
as much in my provisional decision where I considered in detail whether there were any 
compelling reasons why it was suitable to transfer despite the difficulties Mr S would have 
faced in meeting the critical yield and the difficulties he would have therefore faced in 
replicating his benefits at the age of 60. Having reviewed what I said, and the casefile once 
again, Im satisfied with my findings in this area. 
For the avoidance of doubt, this means I have considered once again whether passing on 
his pension in the event of his death was reason enough for Mr Ss transfer to fairly be 
considered as suitable. I mention this because IFPC has focussed on this issue in its 
response to my provisional decision. It points to Mr Ss Engagement Letter  which he 
signed  which says:
The main reason to consider transferring is to maximise the death benefits, should you 
predecease your children."
IFPC also points to the recommendations report which confirms his objectives as being 
(amongst other things) to pass any unused pension to his family and to control his 
investments. The suitability letter also says Mrs S had no need for the policys spouses 
benefits because she had her own retirement provision. IFPC also points out that Mr S didnt 
cite growing his pension as a reason for transferring. In IFPCs view all this supports its 
argument that the critical yield is of secondary importance here and that its advice was 
suitable.
I covered this ground in my provisional decision, in which I acknowledged that Mr S did 
engage IFPC with a view to transferring his pension and did so because he was interested in 
passing on that pension to his family in the event of his death. But I went on to say IFPCs 
role wasnt just to implement Mr Ss objectives. It was to provide suitable advice even if such advice went against what Mr S initially wanted to do. And I remain of the view that the advice 
to transfer wasnt suitable here. 
I say this because the critical yield meant IFPCs advice put Mr S on the path of being 
unlikely at the age of 60 of being able to replicate the benefits he had given up by 
transferring. Clearly, Mr S would have got some benefit from transferring  notably the ability 
to pass on his pension to his family on his death. But I dont consider Mr Ss appetite and 
need to do this was such that he would have considered the likelihood of essentially having 
a less valuable pension than before was a price worth paying. I think few people would 
consider such a trade-off as being in their best interests. And Im satisfied Mr S isnt an 
exception to this given theres little evidence on file as to why such a trade-off was in his best 
interests beyond IFPCs rationale that it was fulfilling Mr Ss objectives (a point IFPC 
continues to focus on  in its response to my provisional decision it still talks about Mr Ss 
instructions). His good health would suggest the actual amount he would pass on would 
likely be quite small anyway. And Mr Ss comments at the time point to him being more 
open-minded about not transferring than IFPC seemed to appreciate:
So I now wish to push ahead with the DB transfer, and will put on hold the more holistic
work around my broader retirement plan until the DB transfer is complete (either by being
transferred, or not, if ultimately the advice is not to do so). [email from Mr S to IFPC on 
5 July 2018, my emphasis]
Just a heads up, one of the key issues for me is understanding the components aggregating 
to the 9.27pc critical yield. If thats true growth rather than the effect of costs I cant match 
that in [Mr Ss chosen investment trust] raising the question of why not wait until 60 to 
transfer [email from Mr S to IFPC on 14 August 2018]
So it seems Mr Ss interest in transferring had its limits and the critical yield was a real 
concern to him. His comments show he wouldnt have wanted to transfer when it wasnt 
financially viable to do so. In this light, its difficult to argue that the transfer was in Mr Ss 
best interests  especially when one considers IFPC should have started off assuming the 
transfer wasnt suitable. So Im satisfied IFPCs recommendation wasnt suitable here. Im 
also satisfied Mr Ss comments show he wouldnt  as IFPC has argued  have progressed 
with the transfer as an insistent client if he had been told transferring was unsuitable.
I appreciate theres an argument that the critical yield can be a relatively one-dimensional 
tool in so far as it takes the retirement benefits that are being given up and then looks at the 
returns needed in order for someone to be able to replicate those benefits at retirement age. 
If someone appears to have little interest in, or need for, those benefits (in this case a 
predictable, index-linked, income for life with protection for a spouse in the event of death) 
then pointing out the difficulty of being able to replicate those benefits is  so the argument 
goes  of limited use.
However, the point here  as it always has been  is that the critical yield highlights that the 
benefits a person is thinking of giving up can, potentially, be valuable and extremely 
expensive to replicate. This should prompt advisers to carefully consider whether giving up 
those benefits is worthwhile  especially given the starting assumption advisers should work 
from, which is that the transfer isnt suitable. The fact that a client began the advice process 
thinking they wanted to transfer shouldnt change any of this. 
As I said in my provisional decision, this doesnt mean a difficult-to-beat critical yield should 
always result in advice to not transfer. There can be good reasons why a transfer is in 
someones best interests even when the critical yield is unlikely to be met. Its just that here, 
for the reasons given above, Im satisfied there werent sufficiently good reasons to draw that 
conclusion.IFPC also says the information it provided about the critical yield was presented in a clear 
and fair way. Given Mr Ss financial experience, it says its reasonable to conclude he made 
an informed decision to transfer. 
I covered this in my provisional decision and my view then, and now, is that this is a weak 
argument. Not because I disagree that Mr S has financial experience; clearly he does. But 
because IFPC had to take reasonable steps to ensure its advice was suitable. Providing 
clear information doesnt absolve IFPC of this responsibility. And, for the reasons given 
above, its advice wasnt suitable here.
IFPC has also referred to the FCAs pension transfer tool, the Defined Benefit Advice 
Assessment Tool (DBAAT). This tool was designed to help firms review the suitability of 
advice given in relation to the transfer of defined benefit pensions. IFPC says that the 
DBAAT is the most appropriate method for assessing suitability here and asks for the 
opportunity to provide a completed DBAAT for my comments.
First, IFPC could have provided a completed DBAAT in response to my provisional decision. 
It didnt do so but instead chose to mention the possibility of providing one. I dont consider it 
fair and reasonable to delay a decision because IFPC is undecided on what evidence to 
provide. Second, the approach taken by the DBAAT is consistent with my findings anyway. 
For instance, the tool has examples of unsuitability. One of the examples given is when the 
aim of the transfer is to maximise death benefits but theres insufficient evidence on file to 
demonstrate why this is in the clients best interests. Another example is when the transfer 
analysis doesnt support the transfer. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied 
considerations like these apply here. Im satisfied, therefore, that the DBAAT wouldnt have 
made a difference in this case.
Finally in relation to IFPCs comments, its worth noting that it requested an oral hearing in 
response to my provisional decision. I declined this request and explained why in separate 
correspondence. IFPC didnt contest my decision. As such, I wont be revisiting that subject 
here. However, some of the issues I covered in my response to IFPCs hearing request do 
have a bearing on the merits of the complaint in so far as they relate to some of the factual 
background to the advice and (in IFPCs view) the reliability of what Mr S has said. So, for 
completeness, I repeat those comments here so that they form part of my final decision on 
the merits of the complaint:
In relation to IFPCs comments about Mr Ss circumstances at the time of the advice my 
thoughts were  and remain  as follows: 
you [IFPC] point out that the complainant was an experienced, knowledgeable and 
wealthy investor who was willing, and able, to take a relatively high level of risk with his 
investments. You point out that he sought out advice to maximise the death benefits of 
his pension and, as such, came to IFPC with the intention of transferring. And you say 
the complainants wife was financially independent and not in particular need of a 
spouses pension. But in my provisional decision I accepted all this. And having reread 
my provisional decision alongside your comments, I dont think there is any substantive 
disagreement on what the complainants situation and circumstances were at the time of 
the advice.
In relation to IFPCs comments about Mr Ss apparent satisfaction with his advice, my 
thoughts were  and remain  as follows: 
You [IFPC] also disagree with the complainants view that the advice was unsuitable 
and make reference to the fact that he appeared to be happy with the advice at the time because it allowed him to meet a number of his objectives. ButAll suitability-type 
complaints essentially start from the same position. If someone acts on the advice 
theyre given then presumably theyre satisfied with that advice  otherwise they 
wouldnt have acted on it. But its perfectly reasonable for someone to subsequently 
change their mind on that as more information comes to light. A change of heart in this 
way isnt unusual...
In relation to IFPCs comments about Mr Ss evolving complaint, my thoughts were  
and remain  as follows: 
Youve [IFPC] also raised concerns that the complaint has changed over time, from one 
that was initially about the quite narrow issue of the transfer value multiple that was 
quoted to one that now encompasses the overall suitability of the advice that was given. 
Complaints do evolve over time. Its perfectly reasonable for someone to broaden out 
their complaint in response to the businesss findings and as more information becomes 
available. This service is also required to do more than just look at a complaint as its 
written or explained to us. We must think about what lies at the heart of a complaint and 
look at the whole picture. So I consider it perfectly normal for a complaint to 
evolveThat said, its important to note here the complaint that was brought to us was 
always relatively broad. When the complaint was first referred to us, the complainant 
said:
With this in mind I would separately ask you to look through the Report to ensure it 
meets the necessary standards, and the conclusion is fairly drawn
In this context, we wouldnt have been investigating the complaint properly if we hadnt 
looked at the advice process as a whole; its what the complainant asked us to do.
In short, I dont consider there to be any substantive areas of disagreement between me and 
IFPC as to Mr Ss circumstances at the time of the advice or why he initially engaged IFPC. I 
also dont consider the way Mr S has formulated his complaint to be an area of concern.  
 
Addressing Mr Ss comments
Mr S accepted the outcome of my provisional decision but made several comments, mainly 
in relation to the calculation of redress and how it will be enforced. Our investigator has 
already addressed many of these comments, but there are several issues I need to address 
here.
First, Mr S says he suffered trouble and upset as a result of whats happened. He would like 
an award to be paid in recognition of this. 
Our approach isnt to make an award just because someone has had to complain about a 
business and has had to put in time and effort to progress that complaint. To a certain 
extent, that goes with the territory  dealing with any organisation can lead to frustrations. 
We would typically only make an additional award when its evident that the complainant has 
suffered a disproportionate amount of inconvenience in dealing with the business or has 
suffered demonstrable distress as a result of the businesss actions. An example might be 
when the businesss advice led to a significant fall in the value of someones pension. Even 
then, our awards arent a means to punish the business. I dont wish to downplay whats 
happened to Mr S. But having reviewed the casefile once again, Im satisfied an award for 
trouble and upset isnt warranted here.  
Second, Mr S says he should be refunded the separate £4,400 advice fee he paid because 
the advice would have been proven to be deficient if his complaint is upheld. This is a finely balanced issue. I can see the point Mr S is making. He paid for unsuitable 
advice and, intuitively, that feels like something he should be compensated for. However, our 
role is to put someone back in the position they would have been in but for the businesss 
actions. And Mr S would always have sought, and paid for, advice. He was, after all, keen to 
explore his options with regards to transferring. Yes, he should have been advised against 
transferring and that cant be undone now. But my approach to redress rectifies, as far as 
possible, the financial impact of that advice. So, ultimately Mr S will  as far as possible  be 
put in the position he should, and would, always have been which is paying for advice but (in 
effect) not transferring. 
Third, Mr S would like IFPC to apologise for whats happened. 
I wont be asking IFPC to do this (although IFPC is welcome to do so of course). As I said 
above, our role is to put the complainant back in the position they should have been in but 
for the businesss actions. My approach to redress does that. Besides, implicit in Mr Ss 
comments is the notion that IFPC acted in bad faith. I dont think thats the case here. I think 
its advice could have been better. But I dont think IFPCs actions were so egregious that 
further action beyond compensating Mr S is required here.
Fourth, Mr S has pointed out that the total value of his pensions at the time of his advice 
were above the lifetime allowance (LTA) threshold. As a result, he says transferring would 
have resulted in a higher tax liability given the less favourable method used to value defined 
contribution pensions relative to defined benefit pensions for the purposes of LTA 
calculations. He wants to know if the FCAs Finalised Guidance FG17/9 on redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers (on which my proposed redress was based) 
covers this eventuality.
IFPC did say in its recommendations report that transferring would increase Mr Ss exposure 
to an LTA tax charge. So this does appear to be a legitimate concern (and potentially 
another reason for why the transfer wasnt suitable  IFPC went on to say in the same 
section of the report that transferring wouldnt have been tax efficient for Mr S). Im satisfied, 
however, that Mr Ss concerns are covered by FG17/9. For instance, it says:
Where a firm or adviser has failed to give compliant and proper advice, or has committed 
some other breach of the relevant requirements, the basic objective of redress is to put the 
customer, so far as possible, into the position they would have been in if the non-compliant 
or unsuitable advice had not been given or the breach had not occurred.
A customer should not be left in a worse position at the point of being redressed as a result 
of the redress either being used to augment their personal pension or being paid as a lump 
sum. In calculating the redress amount, respondents should also take into account the 
customers wider circumstances so that they are not disadvantaged by receiving the redress 
payment.
Ultimately, my role here isnt to put an exact number on Mr Ss redress. I wouldnt have the 
necessary information to do this anyway. That role is for IFPC. My role is to provide the 
approach IFPC should take. And Im satisfied that the approach as outlined in my provisional 
decision, and repeated below, means IFPC has to ensure Mr S is not financially 
disadvantaged by any adverse tax liability caused by its recommendation to transfer.
Fifth, Mr S has pointed to the possibility of delays in the payment of his redress because of 
the potential need to get information about his SERPS position. He suggests any redress 
payment is split between a payment in relation to SERPS if applicable  which could take 
considerable time  and the main bulk of the redress which neednt be delayed. Part of Mr Ss concerns in this area are because he thinks IFPC could try to use the grace period 
allowed in my redress for obtaining SERPS information to deliberately hold back the bulk of 
his compensation that could otherwise be paid. 
I wont be asking IFPC to split compensation in this way. I dont consider the extra 
complexity of doing this would be a proportionate response given Mr Ss concerns are 
predicated, to a certain extent, on his belief that IFPC may try to game the system to its 
advantage. As I said before, I dont think IFPCs behaviour has been so egregious that a 
different approach to compensating him is required here. 
On similar lines, Mr S has requested that redress should include an additional sum (of up to 
£2,500) to allow him to employ someone to independently check IFPCs redress 
calculations. I wont be asking IFPC to pay this. Our remit when upholding a complaint is to 
set out the redress methodology a business should use to correct its original mistake. It 
doesnt extend to formulating additional compensation to allow for the policing of redress 
payments. Besides, its not unusual for people to lose faith in a business following a 
complaints process. Mr Ss situation isnt exceptional in this respect and isnt one that would 
make me think special measures would be required anyway.
Finally, Mr S says his pension plan could receive the redress payment but an annual 
allowance tax charge would apply which could be paid by his plan under a voluntary 
scheme pays arrangement. Mr S says his pension provider has told him that he would be 
responsible for completing any paperwork and calculating tax if redress is paid in this way. 
He would, potentially, need additional support from an accountant to do this.
If redress is paid in this way, then IFPC should undertake the necessary calculations if Mr S 
is unable to do them himself and requires additional support. This would be in line with the 
requirements of FG17/9 which aims to ensure a person isnt financially disadvantaged by the 
redress process. However, it should be noted that this doesnt extend as far as IFPC paying 
for a tax liability that could otherwise have been avoided. So if Mr S would ultimately have to 
pay additional tax as a result of redress being paid into his pension plan, then this wouldnt 
be IFPCs responsibility. In this scenario, IFPC should pay redress direct to Mr S with a 
notional tax deduction as set out below.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. My view is that Mr S wouldnt 
have transferred. IFPC must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
IFPC may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date 
IFPC receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes IFPC 
to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
In order to compensate Mr S, IFPC Limited must follow the approach set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman