DRN-4093990
The complaint
Miss G and Mr R are unhappy with how Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity
Company (Chaucer) calculated a claim for curtailment under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss G, Mr R and their two children were insured under an annual travel insurance policy,
provided by Chaucer.
Unfortunately, one of Miss G and Mr Rs children fell ill on the day they arrived abroad on
holiday and they were advised to return to the UK. Chaucer arranged for Miss G, Mr R, and
their children to fly back six days later (one day earlier than planned).
Mr R made a curtailment claim with Chaucer for his and his familys unused costs. Chaucer
paid a curtailment claim for 5 days for Miss G and Mr Rs child whod fallen ill, and a
curtailment claim for 2 days for the rest of the family. Mr R complained to Chaucer and said
the curtailment claim for the entire family should have been calculated from the date his and
Miss Gs child fell ill. However, Chaucer maintained its stance and said the policy terms
provided for the payment of a curtailment claim only from the date those insured under the
policy returned home.
As Mr R remained unhappy, he brought his and Miss Gs complaint to the attention of our
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he thought
Chaucer should recalculate the curtailment settlement for the whole family from the day after
Miss G and Mr Rs child had fallen ill.
Mr R accepted our investigators opinion but Chaucer didnt and, as a resolution couldnt be
reached, the complaint was referred to me as the final stage in our process. I made my 
provisional decision about the complaint earlier this month. In it, I said:
Miss G and Mr R brought a second complaint to our service about the level of assistance
provided by Chaucer while they were abroad, which has been dealt with under a separate
complaint reference number. This provisional decision relates only to Miss G and Mr Rs
curtailment claim.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when making my decision about Miss G and Mr Rs complaint.
The terms and conditions of Miss G and Mr Rs policy, at page 20 under the heading
Section A  Cancellation or Curtailment Charges, say that Chaucer will pay for:
your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs
and other pre-paid charges (excluding attraction, event & excursion tickets) which
you have paid or are contracted to payif:

b) the trip is curtailed before completion
as a result of any of the following events:
1.

c) Your illness

2. Theillnessof
a) any person who you are travelling with:
The policy defines Curtailment/Curtail/Curtailed as including:
a) abandoning or cutting short the trip by direct early return to your home area, in
which case claims will be calculated from the day you returned to your home area
and based on the number of complete days of your trip which you have not used
Miss G, Mr R and their family returned to the UK on 25 March 2022. This means, under the 
terms and conditions of their policy, Chaucer is entitled to calculate their curtailment claim
payment from this date. Chaucer has calculated the settlement claim in this way for Miss G,
Mr R and one of their children and, therefore, has done so in line with the terms and
conditions of their policy.
But, in line with my remit, Ive also thought about whether a strict application of the policy
terms and conditions leads to a fair and reasonable outcome based on the individual
circumstances of this case.
Chaucer has calculated the settlement payment for Miss G and Mr Rs child who fell ill from
an earlier date. Ive considered whether I think it would be fair and reasonable for Chaucer to
do the same in relation to the curtailment claim payment made for the rest of the family.
Miss G and Mr Rs child fell ill on 19 March 2022 and they were advised to return to the UK.
Miss G, Mr R and their family were subsequently moved to a different hotel at a lower
altitude, which they describe as having limited facilities. I accept that Miss G, Mr R, and their
children therefore couldnt use the facilities at their original hotel and they couldnt ski 
which was, I think, clearly the primary purpose and intention of their trip. Ive also had regard
to the age of Miss G and Mr Rs children, the nature of their childs illness and the overall
urgency of the situation. Im satisfied that Miss G and Mr Rs trip was  in effect  curtailed
from the date their child first fell ill, regardless of the fact that they didnt return to the UK until
a later date. In certain circumstances, this may lead me to conclude that it would be fair and
reasonable for an insurer to pay for the policyholders unused costs from the date the trip
was in effect curtailed.
However, I must also have regard to the other costs which Chaucer covered in this case.
Chaucer paid for new accommodation for Miss G, Mr R, and their children. The evidence
which Ive seen suggests that this new accommodation was arranged on medical grounds.
And Chaucer also paid for the costs of repatriating the family to the UK, via two different
modes of transport.When making an independent and impartial decision, I need to reach an outcome that is fair
and reasonable to both parties. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require Chaucer
to reimburse Miss G and Mr R for their unused accommodation costs outside of the terms
and conditions of the policy in circumstances where Chaucer also paid for additional
accommodation abroad during the same period. And, under the terms and conditions of
Section B of the policy entitled Emergency Medical Expenses & Repatriation, Miss G and
Mr R wouldnt be entitled to reimbursement from Chaucer for the part of their claim which
relates to their unused original return tickets in circumstances where Chaucer has arranged
and paid for them to return home.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss G and Mr R. I have no doubt that this must have been a very
stressful time, and that theyve lost out financially. But I dont think the additional curtailment
costs which they are claiming for are covered under the terms and conditions of their policy,
and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly direct Chaucer
to pay more than it already has in the circumstances.
Chaucer accepted my provisional findings and said it had nothing further to add. Miss G and 
Mr R didnt agree with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Miss G and Mr Rs response to my provisional decision and Ive addressed what I 
think are their key additional points below. 
Im not bound to follow our investigators conclusions and, while Im sorry that Miss G and Mr 
R are unhappy with my findings, I simply dont agree that the opinion our investigator 
reached was a fair and reasonable one. 
Im aware that Miss G and Mr R also lost food, ski passes, ski lessons, ski equipment hire 
and local locker hire. But I dont think that Chaucer needs to cover any of the costs theyre 
claiming for. Miss G and Mr Rs policy  like most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the 
market - doesnt cover curtailment costs unless a policyholder actually cuts short their trip 
and returns to the UK. This doesnt mean that this section of their policy has no value. No 
insurance policy covers everything.
I understand the repatriation decision was Chaucers and not Miss G and Mr Rs, and I also 
understand Miss G and Mr R could, in theory, have returned to the UK on the first available 
flight. But these points dont change the fact that Chaucer did pay for additional 
accommodation and repatriation costs in this case. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
require Chaucer to also pay for Miss G and Mr Rs unused costs (regardless of whether 
these relate to accommodation, travel or other expenses), when the starting point is that 
what Miss G and Mr R are claiming for isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their 
policy with Chaucer anyway. There isnt any medical evidence which Miss G and Mr R could 
provide which would change my decision.
So, for these reasons and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I wont be 
requiring Chaucer to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss G and Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman