DRN-3203601
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice he was given in 1997 when he agreed to make 
contributions to a personal pension plan (PPP), which was linked to his employers group 
personal pension plan (GPP) and administered by Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich). He says 
that when he recently asked for information about the plan, he discovered that it had 
lapsed and no longer had any value. He complains that he should have been told that the 
plan couldnt be frozen when he took it out, so that its value could be maintained.  
What happened
In August 1997 Mr P and his partner met with Allied Dunbar, now part of Zurich, which is 
how Ill continue to refer to the business here, to discuss mortgages. It was identified at that 
time that Mr P was about to join his new employers GPP. Zurich then conducted a financial 
review with Mr P and identified he held deferred money purchase occupational scheme 
benefits as well as a PPP taken out in 1994 with another provider into which he paid £30 per 
month. 
A policy schedule from Zurich showed that Mr Ps employer agreed to contributions of 
£86.72 into the GPP from 1 October 1997 and the following month Mr P agreed to make 
gross personal contributions of £56.27.  
Mr P only made three personal contributions to the PPP and in March 1999 his employer 
stopped their contributions when he left. Mr P made no further contributions to the plan.
In February 2021, having just rediscovered that he held the plan, Mr P contacted Zurich for 
some updated information. But he was told the plan had lapsed after he stopped making 
contributions to it and had subsequently lost its value due to the charges exceeding any 
growth on the plan. Mr P said he wasnt told that could happen when he took out the plan 
and asked why its value couldnt have been frozen. He said he would have been better 
keeping it under the bed.
Zurich didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that when Mr Ps contributions to the plan 
stopped in March 1999, the fund remained invested and deductions continued to be taken 
from the fund. Unfortunately the ongoing charges and reduced allocation period meant the 
plans value reduced to zero in 2010. It said it thought its advice to take out the plan had 
been suitable and there was no evidence at the time to suggest that Mr P was going to leave 
his employment. It said that Mr P would have received documentation, at the time of taking 
out the plan, which explained how it worked along with the charges that were applied. 
Mr P wasnt happy with that outcome and brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators said this wasnt a complaint that should be upheld. She said that Mr P had 
been made aware that he couldnt draw his benefits from the plan before a certain age, so 
Zurich had acted correctly in that respect. 
And she explained that Mr Ps pension hadnt been frozen over time, but simply that after 
he stopped making personal contributions the charges on the plan have since outweighed 
the returns. She said this meant that the fund value has been eroded to zero and theres 
nothing left for Mr P to draw  which she said wasnt Zurichs responsibility. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said Zurich hadnt made him aware at the time of the sale that he 
wouldnt be able to access his funds at any point and that the fund could reduce to zero and 
wouldnt be frozen if he stopped his monthly payments. He says he wasnt able to protect 
the value of his fund when he left his employer and couldnt continue with the payments. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind and made the following additional 
points:
Because of the current rules, no pension provider can allow benefits to be drawn 
from a pension plan  under normal circumstances, before age 55. 
She understood his frustration that the fund had lost its value, but this wasnt Zurichs 
fault as investments can fall as well as rise. 
It was reasonable for Zurich to recommend a pension to help Mr P to save for his 
retirement. 
There was nothing to suggest Mr P might change jobs in the near future. So she 
wouldnt have expected Zurich to have necessarily discussed the implications of that 
situation.  But in any case, the key features document did state that Mr P should 
contact Zurich if he changed jobs or employment status. So it was clear
hed been made aware and that the onus to notify the change was on him. 
She wouldnt have expected Zurichs adviser to have discussed funds being frozen 
as this wasnt something that could be done. But she did think that the key features 
document noted that the fund would be smaller if contributions stopped or if charges 
were better or worse than expected. 
Mr P didnt accept the outcome. He said he thought Zurich could simply have returned his 
contributions as a gesture of goodwill. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator. I know this is an 
outcome which will disappoint Mr P, and I have some sympathy for the position he finds 
himself in knowing that his pension is worthless. But I dont think Zurich has done anything 
wrong here  so Ill explain my reasons.
In reaching my decision Ive looked the documents which Zurich would have provided Mr P 
at the time of its advice as well as the fact finds that it completed to understand his 
circumstances at the time.  
Was the advice suitable?
Mr P was age 30 at the time of the advice. His retirement provision at that time consisted of 
deferred benefits from a previous employers pension scheme and another PPP hed held for 
three years into which it was recorded he paid £30 per month. Zurich noted that Mr P had 
the opportunity to join a new employers GPP and alongside the contribution his employer 
was prepared to make it recommended that he paid £43 net per month into the plan. Its generally accepted that, where possible, membership of an employers pension scheme 
is beneficial. Thats because the employer usually contributes to the plan  which was the 
case here. And looking at Mr Ps disposable income here it would seem that he could afford 
to make his own personal contributions as well. So overall I think the advice for Mr P to take 
advantage of the scheme and to contribute towards his future retirement provision was 
suitable. Theres no evidence to suggest that Mr P wasnt going to remain with the employer, 
so I dont think there was a reason not to recommend paying into the scheme.
I have considered that there were a number of references to increasing contributions to the 
PPP in order to repay a mortgage, although the fact find and suitable report arent entirely 
consistent or clear about this. So I asked both parties for their comments. Zurich said there 
was no evidence to support the idea that the PPP was linked to a mortgage and Mr P said 
he didnt have a mortgage as he lived with his partner. He said he wasnt planning to take 
out a mortgage, and, if he had decided to do so in the future, he would only have considered 
a repayment loan.
 
So, on balance, Ive concluded that the recommendation wasnt for a pension mortgage and 
that any reference to it was most likely based on possible future plans. 
Did Zurich make Mr P aware that he couldnt access his funds when he stopped 
contributions?
Mr P says that Zurich ought to have told him that he wouldnt be able to access his funds if 
he stopped contributions, and I can understand Mr Ps frustration about this matter. 
However, I note that he didnt contact Zurich when he and his employer did cease payments 
into the PPP. Zurich and its advisers would have known the rules which prevented Mr P 
accessing his benefits before age 50 (the age at which benefits could be drawn when he 
took out the PPP), or 55 which was the age that legislation increased it to in 2010. So if Mr P 
had made a request to access his funds I think he would have been made aware that it 
wasnt possible to do so.
But Ive looked carefully at what Zurich did make Mr P aware of, regarding accessing his 
benefits, at the time of the advice. The key features documents that was issued to Mr P set 
out the aims of the PPP which was to, build up a fund to provide you with an income when 
you retire. The document also set out what Mr P needed to do throughout the term of the 
plan. This included you may not start taking any of your benefits before age 50 nor after 
age 75. 
  
The document also set out the risk factors of the PPP. The first risk factor was in choosing 
your contribution payment term it should match the period you intend maintaining 
contributions for. If this turns out to be too short or too long you may not get the best value 
from the plan. It also noted you may have to stop contributions or retire earlier than you 
intended. Your retirement fund would therefore be smaller.
Mr P also had access to the terms and conditions for the plan, part of which confirmed, 
Section 8 pension lump sum and annuity benefits- subject to 1 above, and (2),(3) and (4) 
below, the benefits set out in this section can be paid out when you are between the ages of 
50 and 75. 
So I think that when all taken together this information made Mr P aware that, not only could 
he not access his plan benefits until age 50 (at the time of the advice), but that if he stopped 
contributions that would adversely affect the amount he could receive. Theres no evidence to suggest that access to the benefits would have been possible if contributions were 
ceased. 
I accept that the document doesnt specifically state that benefits cant be accessed when 
contributions cease, but I wouldnt expect such a document to list every possible outcome 
or scenario that could occur with the plan. And I wouldnt have expected the adviser to have 
discussed that eventuality as it wasnt something that could have been done in any case. If 
Mr P, upon reading the key features document thought that outcome was possible, I would 
have expected him to raise it at the time.
  
The value of the fund and whether it could have been frozen
Mr P says he wasnt made aware that the value of his plan could fall to zero and he was led 
to believe the value could be frozen when he stopped contributions. 
 
I havent seen any evidence to support the claim that Mr P was told his PPP value could be 
frozen when he stopped making payments. Theres nothing to suggest he was told this or 
indeed that it was discussed, and the adviser wouldnt have been able to offer such a 
solution in any case as freezing the fund value wasnt possible to do. I cant discount that 
Mr P formed the impression a fund would be frozen based on what was said at the time 
although its not possible to know what was discussed between them in 1997. But even if 
what was said was misunderstood or caused some confusion there are other reasons to 
conclude that Mr P ought to have been aware that this wasnt the case.
    
The terms and conditions of the plan, in the section entitled taking deduction from units 
said, (3) where deductions are taken from units, units are cancelled at their bid value 
(4) where the effect of the relevant deductions is to reduce the unit value of an account to 
zero, the account will end and will not be able to begin again.
So it was clear that, even when contributions ceased, the deductions from the plan would 
continue to affect its value and that it wasnt going to be frozen
  
But I also think it was clear from the charging structure of the plan that the fund value would 
be affected if contributions werent maintained longer term. The policy schedule set out the 
charges for the plan. It stated that only 35% of funds were allocated for investment in first 29 
months. There was also a 1% annual management charge and an expense deduction which 
was £3.69 per month in 1997  but which could vary from year to year. 
So, given that Mr P only made contributions for 3 months and his employer for around 17 
months  which meant Mr P wasnt allowed a refund of his contributions, a significant 
amount of his investment wasnt allocated to the plan. In fact only just over a third was 
invested. So alongside the monthly expense deduction and the 1% annual charge, its not 
difficult to understand the scenario where much of the fund would have been eroded in 
charges  regardless of the fund performance. Repeating this situation over 20 years or so 
would only support the idea that the fund would eventually, more likely than not, have eroded 
to a nil value.
So I dont think Zurich has done anything wrong in the way its applied charges and 
continued to manage the fund. I think it did what it said it would do in its terms and 
conditions, but I would have expected it to make Mr P aware of this possibility. I think it has 
done that for the reasons I set out earlier.
But I also would have expected Zurich to make Mr P aware that the value of his fund wasnt 
guaranteed in any case. I note that the key features document confirmed however, you 
should note that because the value of units can go down as well as up, the value of your plan at any time is not guaranteed. So I think it was clear that there wasnt an option to 
freeze plans in any case as this would have inferred an element of guaranteeing its value. 
I have also considered Mr Ps point that he wasnt given any assistance in being able to 
protect the plans value after contributions ceased. It might have been possible for Mr P to 
have switched into safer or more cautious risk rated funds for example  although its 
unlikely this would have helped as the erosion of the funds from charges would have 
happened anyway without any corresponding investment growth. But in any case, I havent 
been provided with any evidence to show that Mr P had an ongoing arrangement with Zurich 
to review his plan or for it provide ongoing advice.
  
So unless Mr P had approached Zurich for a review or advice sometime after he left his 
employer, I cant safely say Zurich did anything wrong in not helping him to protect his 
plans fund value. I note the key features document also said that Mr P had a commitment 
to tell us if you change jobs or if your employment status changes Theres no evidence to 
suggest that Mr P did contact Zurich for advice or to update it of his situation until his request 
for policy information in 2021, after he rediscovered he had previously held the PPP. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman