DRN-1479622
 
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the amount Highway Insurance Company Limited (Highway) has 
paid to settle her car insurance claim. 
Any reference to Highway includes their agents.
What happened
In October 2019, Miss M was involved in a car accident. Her car was written off as it was 
uneconomical to repair it. Highway offered Miss M £3,400 subject to taking off her policy 
excess of £370. Miss M was unhappy with this as she doesnt believe this amount is enough. 
This is because her car had only travelled approximately 55,000 miles and it had additional 
features including a sunroof, sport seats and alloy wheels, of which, two were fitted with new 
tyres a few days before the accident. 
She said the amount offered by Highway is not enough to allow her to buy another car of a 
similar standard from car dealers in her local area and she has no way to travel far to look 
for cars to buy.
Miss M complained to Highway. They said they had taken the average of market valuations 
provided by three motor trade guides when determining the market value of her car which 
totalled £3,415.33, but they increased it to £3500 as a goodwill gesture. Also, Miss M asked 
to have a hire car until she found a new car. Although the policy only allowed car hire for 
when the car is in for repair, Highway agreed to allow Miss M to have a hire car for seven 
days after they sent the settlement cheque to her, as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with Highways response, Miss M referred the complaint to our service because 
she was unhappy with the amount offered to settle her claim. Our investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they believed Highway had acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy and the offer of £3,500 to settle the claim was 
unfair.
Miss M disagreed and said Highway should offer at least £3,700 for her car. She said they 
initially offered £3,400 but this was increased to £3,500 so she believes the settlement 
amount could be higher. 
The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have decided not to 
uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Where a car has been damaged, Highways terms and conditions say, We will, at your request, pay for loss of or damage to your car up to the market value of 
your car. 
The policy terms define market value as, 
The cost of replacing your car at the time of the loss or damage, taking into account its 
make, model, specification, age, mileage and condition. This will not exceed the estimate of 
value that you last gave to us. 
This means Highway will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, in 
this matter, theyve determined to be £3,500.
Firstly, I think its helpful to explain that our service doesnt give an exact value of Miss Ms 
car. Instead, we consider if the amount offered by the insurer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
When looking at these types of complaints, I check motor trade guides and consider whether 
Highway has made a reasonable offer in line with them. These are used for valuing second 
hand cars. We find these guides to be persuasive evidence of market value, mostly because 
their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. They also take 
into account regional variations. I consider them more reliable than individual adverts 
because cars often dont sell for the advertised price.
Highway offered £3,500 less the policy excess in settlement of Miss Ms claim. It said this 
was the average offered by the trade guides and rounded up as a gesture of goodwill. I can 
see that the investigator checked the guides based on the same make, model, age, 
condition, extras and mileage as Miss Ms at the date of its loss. These checks found that 
Highways offer was within the range of the valuations provided by the guides. 
I have also considered what Miss M has said about the additional features of the car such as 
the sunroof, sports seat and alloy wheels. However, having referred to the motor trade 
guides, these features dont increase the overall market value and so I find Highways 
market valuation to be fair.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Highways settlement offer for the market value 
of Miss Ms car at the time of its loss was reasonable, in line with our approach and in 
accordance to the policys terms and conditions. So I dont require Highway to increase this. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss M and I understand her 
concerns about having nobody to assist her in buying another car, but I cant say Highway 
has done anything wrong or needs to do more in resolving her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Simona Charles
Ombudsman