DRN-2004770
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a used car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car 
Finance in January 2020;
Oodle Car Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr M was about four years old, had been driven for more 
than 33,000 miles and had a price of £9,999;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that there were some issues with the car when 
it was supplied to Mr M and he returned it to the dealer later that month where he 
signed the dealers acceptance of repair form; 
that form shows that no fault was found with the cars speakers, an aerial booster 
was required so the car would need to be booked in for a repair when the part was 
back in stock, the sat-nav would need to be checked by a manufacturers dealer but 
any update required would be down to Mr M and that the car needed to be booked in 
with a main dealer for diagnostics on the radar fault;
so when the car was returned to Mr M the issue with the front collision sensor going 
on and off hadnt been repaired; 
Mr M then complained about the car to Oodle Car Finance in February 2020  less 
than 30 days after the car had been supplied to him - and said that he wanted to 
reject the car;
he obtained a diagnostics report on the car from a manufacturers dealer in March 
2020 which showed that there were outstanding recalls on the car;
I consider that there were issues with the car when it was supplied to Mr M and that 
those issues caused the car not to have been of satisfactory quality - Mr M accepted 
a repair of those issues but all of the issues werent repaired so I consider that the 
car continued to not be of satisfactory quality;
Mr M then said that he wanted to reject the car because of the issues with it and I 
consider that he was entitled to reject the car at time; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Oodle Car 
Finance to now accept Mr Ms rejection of the car.
Putting things right
I find that Oodle Car Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the 
car to be collected from Mr M  both at no cost to him. I also find that it should remove any 
information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Ms credit file.
The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr M paid a deposit of £99 for the car. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to refund to Mr M the deposit that he 
paid for the car, with interest.
I consider that Oodle Car Finance should have allowed Mr M to reject the car when he asked 
to do so in February 2020. I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for it to refund to 
Mr M the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since that time, with 
interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Oodle Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Oodle Car Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr M  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr M the deposit that he paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mr M the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since 
the date in February 2020 that he asked to reject the car.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Ms credit 
file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Oodle Car Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Oodle Car Finance must give Mr M a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman