DRN-2170751
Complaint
Mrs S and Mr G say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy alongside a mortgage in or 
around February 1998.
They say they the PPI was added to their mortgage without their knowledge, they didnt 
want it and didnt need it.
Background
The policy was joint so Mrs S and Mr G each had the benefit of 50% of the cover. The MPPI 
would have covered mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if one of them was unable to 
work due to accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mrs S and Mr G didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed on to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs S and Mr Gs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S and Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs S and Mr G say they didnt agree to taking out MPPI and that this was made clear by 
them at a meeting at a branch. I agree that it looks as if the policy was sold during a 
meeting. And BoS has told us that it recommended Mrs S and Mr G take out the cover. 
That means it had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr G and the information 
provided was clear, fair and not misleading. I havent seen anything to suggest BoS 
didnt do this.
Ive looked carefully at the documents from the time of sale. First, I can see that on their 
mortgage application Mrs S and Mr G showed they were interested in taking out MPPI 
by each signing and dating the section of the form where BoS made a recommendation 
about taking out the cover. If they werent interested they could have just left this part of 
the form blank. 
I also see Mrs S and Mr G went on to complete a mortgage repayments insurance 
application on which they set out the level of cover they each wanted and answered 
some questions to show they were eligible for it and not affected by any of the main 
policy exclusions. They then both signed the form  so even if it was completed for 
them by the BoS representative, I would have expected them to check it before signing 
the form.
Lastly, the BoSs computerised records show that Mrs S and Mr G each gave answers 
to similar questions to those on their MPPI application to ensure they were eligible and 
not affected by the policys main exclusions. 
Although I dont have any other paperwork from the time they were arranging the 
mortgage, Ive seen enough for me to think that Mrs S and Mr G were aware at the time 
that they were taking out MPPI to help protect their mortgage repayments. Based on 
that, it looks to me as if they made the decision to take the cover. So there simply isnt 
enough evidence or information to suggest to me that the sale of the MPPI happened in 
such a way that Mrs S and Mr G didnt know they were taking out MPPI. 
Mrs S and Mr G were both eligible for the MPPI and werent affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. So I dont think they would have found it difficult if they 
needed to make a claim. Theyve both told us that they were entitled to good work benefits 
from their employers, being 6 months at full pay followed by 6 months at half pay, plus a 
good redundancy package. Theyve also said that financial assistance would be available 
through a work benevolent fund. And theyve also told us they could have relied on help 
from their families to help if necessary. 
Ive taken all this into careful consideration but I still think the policy was suitable. The 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months following a successful claim and in addition to 
any work benefits or pay-outs. It would also have avoided the need to rely on other 
financial resources or to seek financial assistance through the work benevolent fund they 
told us about - which is something thats likely to be offered only on a short-term 
emergency basis. And whilst the offer of family help is a good thing to have, it will always 
very much depend on circumstances at a given time, which can be unpredictable. So, 
given the serious consequences of defaulting on mortgage repayments, I think they 
wouldve found the policy useful.
The policy cost £10.12 per month and would have provided a monthly benefit of £200. So if 
either Mrs S or Mr G made a successful claim, I think the policy would have benefitted 
them more than it cost. The cost and benefit of the cover was set out on the application 
form  so I think BoS made them aware of this before they signed for the policy.
Its possible BoS couldve provided more information about the policy and the things the 
policy didnt cover. But I havent seen anything to show Mr G would have been affected by 
any of these, so I dont think this information would have made Mrs S and Mr G change 
their minds about talking out the policy.
Id like to reassure Mrs S and Mr G that Ive also taken into account what theyve both said in 
response to our adjudicators view, but unfortunately it doesnt change my decision. I also 
see theyve received compensation for another mis-sold PPI product, but we look at each 
separate complaint on its own facts. So  Im sorry to have to disappoint Mrs S and Mr G on 
this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs S and Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman