DRN-3663969
The complaint
Mr R complains that Spreadex Limited should have gained a better understanding of his 
finances before allowing him to trade in his spread betting account and in failing to do so, 
contributed to his financial overcommitment and the losses he incurred.
 
What happened
Mr R opened a spread betting account with Spreadex Limited in June 2011 and continued to 
trade until May 2021. In November 2018, Spreadex approved a £5000 credit limit increase 
on his trading account, and this is the period the complaint relates to. Mr R says this credit 
increase followed with many high value deposits over a short space of time and resulted in 
him becoming financially overcommitted. 
He says that one of Spreadexs compliance teams functions is to ensure that clients dont 
become overcommitted. He says they should have obtained a better understanding of his 
financial situation before allowing him to trade and at least before his credit limit increase in 
2018. He says Spreadex would have seen the high value deposits he was making and 
should have known he couldnt afford this. He says they never challenged the information he 
provided and there was no sense checking or further examination of the information. He 
strongly feels that without doing these further checks, there was no way for Spreadex to 
determine his affordability. Given that he says the compliance team knew about his salary, 
net income and residual income and share-holdings, he doesnt think Spreadex have acted 
reasonably in allowing these payments.
To resolve his complaint, he would like acknowledgement or admission from Spreadex for 
their part in not monitoring his affordability and making his path to financial overcommitment 
easier and has asked to be compensated.
In November 2021, Spreadex issued a final response letter saying they had carried out know 
your customer due diligence as required by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). They say they obtained updated information on his financial situation at the time the 
credit limit was approved. They say he also provided updated online information regarding 
his income, savings and investments held in April 2019, January 2020, and January 2021. In 
addition, they say Mr R never contacted them to advise that he was suffering from any harm 
or financial difficulties as a result of the activity on his Spreadex account. 
They rejected his complaint, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr Rs expectations hadnt been met but was unable to 
conclude that there was any wrongdoing on Spreadexs part. He said Spreadex had asked 
for updated financial information (usually annually), but it wasnt for them to decide how Mr R 
spent his money. He said that Mr R expected some type of intervention in relation to the 
information he provided them and even though this wasnt a requirement, Spreadex had sent 
him notifications regarding the amounts he deposited. He said there was no regulatory or 
contractual requirement for Spreadex to have intervened in Mr Rs trading and didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this was referred to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent commented on every single point, Id like to assure Mr R that I have 
considered everything. Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and for similar 
reasons as the investigator. I will explain further.
Before I do, Id like to address Mr Bs complaint in relation to his fixed odd betting. Fixed odd 
betting cannot be considered by this service as it relates to gambling. Gambling interactions 
are regulated by the Gambling Commission, not the FCA, so I will not be looking at this 
element of the complaint. If he wishes to pursue this further, he should contact the Gambling 
Commission.
In relation to Mr Bs spread betting complaint, he held a non-advisory, execution only 
account so there was no requirement for his account to be monitored and any trading he 
conducted was a decision for him to take himself. This is also stated in the Client Agreement 
of the spread betting account under section 5 (2) of dealings between you and us.
What Spreadex were required to do was to keep up to date information in relation to their 
consumers financial situation to ensure compliance with anti-money laundering legislation, 
but how this is done is not prescribed. This is a decision which each business takes itself 
and incorporates into their processes. We wouldnt interfere with a businesss internal 
processes, their commercial decisions or tell them how they should operate. However, what 
we would consider is whether their actions were within the requirements of the FCA and if 
the business was fair and reasonable in their conduct. 
I have started by looking at what financial information Spreadex did obtain and whether this 
was satisfactory. In 2018 following his request for a credit limit of £5000, Mr R confirmed his 
annual income was £45,000 and his total savings were £138,000 as well as having various 
other investments. Spreadex kept the financial information they held up to date by serving a 
source of funds online message (usually annually). In 2021, Mr R confirmed his annual 
income to be £56,100 with savings of £200,000. Spreadex also contacted him to consider 
safer gambling, affordability, and his deposits via email web message in April 2020 and twice 
in June 2020. So, I am persuaded that Spreadex did obtain updated financial information in 
compliance with legislation and to ensure the credit Mr R was given was still affordable.  
I note Mr Rs comments in relation to Spreadex portraying the checks as being about 
affordability and not about money laundering or know your customer. He didnt think the 
information hed initially provided pointed to his affordability without Spreadex considering 
whether the funds he declared were liquid and what his commitments/liabilities were such as 
tax and national insurance. He has told us some of the information about his finances that 
hes provided Spreadex over the years hasnt been accurate. He says his declared savings 
were unlikely to be accurate beyond the first year and takes responsibility for being 
culpable in not declaring a fair reflection of what his underlying savings position was. 
As a regulated firm Spreadex are subject to the rules set out in the regulators handbook, the 
conduct of business (COBS). COBS 10.2.4 says [a] firm is entitled to rely on the information 
provided by a client unless it is aware that the information is manifestly out of date, 
inaccurate or incomplete. I understand Mr R had expected the compliance team at Spreadex to challenge or verify the 
information hed provided and felt this would have prevented him from incurring the losses 
he did - but this didnt happen. The COBS rules dont require a business to verify the 
information a customer provides them unless it is aware the information is manifestly out of 
date, inaccurate, or incomplete. As I have mentioned above, the information was updated 
periodically and there was no reason to doubt the information presented. Despite Mr R now 
saying his financial situation was different to what he initially presented to Spreadex, they 
were entitled to rely on what hed told them and to make any credit decisions based on this 
information. Under the circumstances, Ive been unable to establish that there was any 
wrongdoing on Spreadexs part.
In understanding whether Spreadex should have intervened, Ive also looked at the deposits 
Mr R made. Spreadex provided details of Mr Rs net deposits inbetween the financial 
updates noted above. Between the November 2018 credit limit increase and January 2020 
his net deposits were a total of £73,511.41. Between January 2020 and January 2021 his 
net deposits were £129,016.00 and between January 2021 to when he ceased trading in 
May 2021 his deposits were £29,959.00.
Whilst these deposits seem particularly large, Mr R himself stated he has around 25 years of 
experience in this type of trading and had been trading with Spreadex since 2011. Hed 
declared his annual income to be £45,000 and had other savings and investments. I know 
Mr R feels quite strongly that the information should have been challenged but the high 
deposits or volume of trading were not unusual with this type of trading and so this alone 
wouldnt have raised any concerns nor meant that Spreadex should have intervened.  
I also think any further queries into his financial situation as Mr R suggests would not support 
the view that he would have been prevented from making any further deposits. In 2021, the 
tax returns he provided Spreadex covering the same tax period as his losses show a 
significantly higher income than what he had declared. It showed income of £118,000 for the 
tax year 2018-19, £115,000 for the tax year 2019-20 and a P60 showing income of £56,000 
for the tax year 2020-21. Given the significantly higher income evidenced, Im not persuaded 
any further challenge of his financial information would have given Spreadex any reason to 
intervene. 
Having considered everything, I havent seen any evidence that Spreadex was made aware 
by Mr R or should have been aware of any financial concerns beyond what he presented to 
them. So, I dont think Spreadex did anything wrong in relying on the information he had 
provided them, nor do I think it was unreasonable of them to increase Mr Rs credit based on 
that information. Without any evidence that he did inform them of any issues with 
affordability, I cant fairly say they had cause to intervene or should have. I know Mr R will be 
disappointed with my decision, but from everything Ive seen, Im unable to find Spreadex 
responsible for any losses hes incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Spreadex Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman