DRN-4160286
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money he lost to a scam.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr D lost just over £9,800 to a scam. Mr D initially provided us with a list of 
payments which totalled over £11,000. However, having reviewed his bank statements, I can 
see that two of the payments werent successful and were recredited to his account.
Mr D was contacted by someone (who Ill refer to as J) who said they worked for a luxury 
goods chain (who Ill refer to as F) as a personal shopper. They told Mr D there was a sale 
on which meant he could save 50% on goods he purchased through them for a limited time.
Mr D says he was satisfied J was a personal shopper for F because:
Mr D contacted F who confirmed that J worked for them and could sell their 
merchandise.
J had profiles on social media sites and business networking sites which confirmed 
his employment as a personal shopper for F.
Mr D had seen J working in one of Fs stores and talked to a staff member who also 
worked for F who confirmed Js employment.
J had sent all his credentials including identification documents, discount codes and 
bank statements.
Associates who worked in the same industry as Mr D had successfully used J to 
purchase goods from F.
Mr D made the payments to three separate payee names and says he questioned J about 
this. The payee name on most of the payments was Js, however J said he was having some 
trouble with his account due to the volume of payments he was receiving. So, he gave Mr D 
the name and account details of another personal shopper who also worked at F, for one of 
the payments. J then asked Mr D to make the last two payments to an account he says was 
held by his father. Mr D says he found Js explanation believable as he knew many other 
people were also using J to buy goods.
When the goods didnt arrive from F, Mr D realised hed been the victim of a scam. 
Ultimately, J was arrested by the police in relation to fraudulent activity.
Mr D raised a fraud claim with Monzo in November 2021, a few days after he made the last 
payment. Monzo considered his claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(CRM Code) but declined to refund him saying he didnt take enough steps to check the 
legitimacy of J. Monzo also confirmed that no funds could be recovered from the beneficiary 
banks Mr D had sent his money to.
Mr D wasnt happy with Monzos response, so he brought a complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and partially upheld it. They felt Mr D didnt 
have a reasonable basis for believing that the person he was paying was legitimate. 
However, they felt Monzo shouldve provided an effective warning when Mr D made a 
payment of just over £3,600. On that basis, the investigator recommended that Monzo 
refund 50% of that payment and pay interest at 8% simple on the refund.
While Mr D accepted the investigators opinion, Monzo didnt. They asked for an 
ombudsman to review the case and asked us to take into consideration that the warning they 
showed Mr D was as specific as they could possibly make it, saying theyre unable to tailor 
each in-app warning for every individual situation. They also provided additional evidence 
which showed how long Mr D spent on each of the warning screens before moving onto the 
next step of the process.
My provisional decision
On 5 May 2023, I issued a provisional decision explaining I was intending to reach a different 
outcome than the investigator and wanted to give both parties a chance to respond before I 
issue a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo arent a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) but have 
agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Code. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning.
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or service; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
* There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
Having reviewed the case, Im not satisfied that Monzo can rely on either exception to 
reimbursement, Ill explain why.
The warning that Monzo says Mr D wouldve seen included the following wording:
Remember
X Bank transfers arranged online or over social media are at a higher risk of fraud.
X Bank transfers arent protected in the same way as card payments.
Pay by card if you can
You might not be able to get your money back if this does turn out to be a scam. Find a 
legitimate seller who lets you pay by card.
However, Im not satisfied that this meets the definition of an effective warning as set out in 
the CRM Code. I say this because it doesnt identify what steps Mr D could take to ensure the seller was legitimate or bring to life the circumstances of the scam Mr D was the victim 
of. Also, the way its worded suggests that while bank transfers arent protected in the same 
way as card payments, they still provide some protection. I also think its important in this 
case that Mr D was making purchases using a personal shopper who would be buying the 
items from a merchant and acting as a middleman. In this situation I dont think its as 
unusual for Mr D to be asked to pay via bank transfer. Theres nothing to suggest that the 
personal shopper was a merchant or had a card terminal whereby card payment wouldve 
been an option.
So, Im not satisfied that the warning was specific or impactful in the circumstances of this 
case. On that basis, Im not satisfied that Monzo can rely on the exception in relation to 
effective warnings.
Moving onto the second exception to reimbursement, Im also not satisfied that Monzo can 
fairly say Mr D didnt have a reasonable basis for believing J was legitimate or that he wasnt 
selling genuine goods.
Mr D completed substantial checks to make sure J worked for F. This included: calling F 
directly to confirm Js employment; seeing J working in one of Fs stores; and talking to 
another employee of F who confirmed Js employment. Also, I think it was persuasive that 
other associates in Mr Ds industry had previously successfully purchased goods through J 
from F. While the discount of 50% mayve seemed high, J told Mr D it was only for a limited 
time, and Im not persuaded that this alone was concerning enough that Mr D shouldve 
doubted the legitimacy of either the seller or the goods.
Having carefully considered the points that Monzo made, I wasnt satisfied they could fairly 
rely on either of the exceptions to reimbursement. On that basis, I recommended they fully 
refund Mr D for all of the transactions and pay interest on that refund at 8% simple, 
calculated from the date they declined his claim under the CRM Code until the date of 
settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D accepted my provisional decision. However, Monzo didnt respond, despite us chasing 
for their response on 22 May 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me any new information or evidence, I see no reason to reach 
a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. On that basis, I uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I set out above in my provisional decision.
 
Putting things right
To put things right Monzo Bank Ltd should refund 100% of the payments Mr D made (being 
£9,817.10) and pay interest on the refund at 8% simple, calculated from the date they 
declined the claim under the CRM Code until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman