DRN-3220917
The complaint
Mr A has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly turned down his business 
interruption insurance claim.  
What happened
Mr A held a business protection insurance policy with UKI. He claimed on his policy after his 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
UKI turned down Mr As claim and explained why various parts of the policy that looked to be 
relevant didnt provide cover.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. He said his claim 
should be paid following the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) test case. 
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of his claim. 
Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the purpose of insurance was to cover 
unforeseen circumstances such as the circumstances of his claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr As business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if UKI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr As claim. While Ive reviewed the policy in full, I will focus my decision on 
the core business interruption section and the parts of the policy UKI referred to in its final 
response to Mr A.
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy provides cover 
If property used by You at the Premises or elsewhere as specified sustains 
Damage, for which liability has been admitted under Sections 1,2 or 6 causing an 
interruption of the Business which results in loss of Gross Income
The policy defines damage as:
Accidental loss, destruction or damage
For this to provide cover, the interruption to Mr As business would need to be due to 
damage to property used at his business premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused damage to property used by Mr A at his business premises so this doesnt 
provide cover. 
Prevention of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension provides 
cover in the event of business interruption due to:
Damage to Property in the vicinity of the Premises preventing or hindering 
access to or use of such Premises
As I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr As business was interrupted due to 
Covid-19 damaging property in the vicinity which hindered or prevented access, this 
doesnt provide cover for his claim. 
Closure
This extension covers:
Loss resulting from interruption to or interference with the Business at the 
Premises in consequence of closure of any part of the Premises, commencing 
during the Period of Insurance, by a competent Public Authority due to defective 
drains or other sanitary arrangements, vermin or pests.
While Mr As business was required to close, this extension would require the closure to be 
due to defective drains or other sanitary arrangements, vermin or pests. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that Mr As premises closed for any of these reasons, so this extension 
doesnt cover his claim.
Public emergency
This extension says that it covers:
Loss resulting from interruption to or interference with the Business at the 
Premises in consequence of the actions or advice of a competent Public 
Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property, in the vicinity of 
the Premises, which commencing during the Period of Insurance, prevents or 
hinders the use of or access to the Premises, excluding
e infectious or contagious disease
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law. 
Mr A referred to the Supreme Court judgment, but I think the High Court judgment is more 
relevant to his complaint, because the High Court considered a similar term to that within   
Mr As policy and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of aninfectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.
I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the High Court. I think Mr As 
premises closed as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website 
describes as an infectious disease. So this extension doesnt cover his claim.
Disease
This extension provides cover for business interruption caused by an occurrence of a 
specified list of diseases. The list of covered diseases doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr As policy is not like this  
it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the 
wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might 
emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases 
and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Mr As claim.
Mr A referred to the Supreme Court judgment but whether the claim should be paid depends 
on the individual wording of the policy. And in this case the judgment doesnt impact Mr As 
claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require UKI to pay his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman