DRN-3650877
The complaint
G, a sole trader business, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, didnt send it a 
replacement debit card on the account.
What happened
G says that the old card stopped working at the end of December 2021. And although it 
asked for a new one and contacted Barclays several times about this, it didnt get a 
replacement for seven weeks. This has caused inconvenience to G.
Barclays apologised for this. It said that the cause of the problem seemed to be when Gs 
account was closed and then re-opened in 2016. The account had been marked as a 
personal product under a busines record. And this prevented a replacement card being 
issued. It recognised that G had in part relied on the owners personal card for payments and 
that it was unable to access online banking for a period. It offered to pay G £400.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays pay any more than this. There was no 
specific evidence of financial loss or damage to Gs reputation. Barclays has issued a letter 
that G could give to any suppliers saying it was at fault and not G. He said that we dont 
normally make awards linked to time spent. He considered the amount offered by Barclays 
was in line with our published guidelines.
G didnt agree. The owner said that he wasnt happy at the outcome given the time it took to 
resolve things. He wanted an ombudsmans review. And this wasnt really about the money, 
but the principle and hed like a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background here isnt in dispute. There was an error made in 2016 when the account 
was re-opened. This was clearly difficult to detect. But it seemed to prevent a replacement 
card being generated automatically or for a manual request to be successful. That wasnt 
resolved for seven weeks and G didnt have a debit card.
The owner of G had stated he was able to use his personal card. And I note that some 
important payments, including for tax, were made with the assistance of a branch. I can see 
that this was the way that G mitigated what happened. But I dont doubt the inconvenience 
caused especially as a new card ought to have been available in a matter of days.
This service doesnt make punitive awards. And while there may have been the potential for 
business loss, Ive not seen evidence of any actual loss. So, I need to think about 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Ive seen the references to a number of 
contacts made by G and long and unproductive calls. As our investigator says we tend to 
look at things overall and wouldnt generally be considering professional rates for time spent. 
Ive reviewed our published guidance and applied my own judgement. Having done so I 
consider that the offer from Barclays is reasonable and not less than I might otherwise have 
awarded.
I appreciate G will be disappointed with my decision. If it doesnt accept this it is free to 
pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to pay G £400 which I think is fair in all the circumstances. So, 
my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC pay G £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman