DRN-3279866
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) declined their travel insurance claim.
Any reference to Mapfre includes all its agents.
What happened
On 28 November 2019, Mr and Mrs C booked a trip and their intended travel dates were 
from 7 May 2020 to 31 August 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C took out an annual multi-trip worldwide policy on 6 January 2020. Cover 
started on 31 January 2020 and ended on 30 January 2021. The policy is underwritten by 
Mapfre. 
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO)  formerly 
known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)  advised against all but essential 
international travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs C therefore cancelled their 
trip on 9 April 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C submitted a claim to Mapfre for one hotel booking and for their internal flights 
as they were both non-refundable. Mapfre assessed the claim and decided to settle the 
claim for the hotel booking but declined the claim for the internal flights. Mapfre said as the 
cost was shown to be recoverable, there was no cover for this under their policy terms and 
conditions. 
Unhappy with Mapfres response, Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it. She didnt think Mapfre had acted out of line with the policy terms 
and conditions and didnt uphold the complaint. She said because the flight provider had 
offered a credit towards a future booking, the cost was recoverable. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs S say:
The voucher offered by the flight provider was for a limited period and valid until the 
end of 2020.
The flight provider does not operate in the UK so cannot be redeemed for use in the 
UK.
There were and still are restrictions in place for their intended travel destination which 
prevents them from travelling there.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at what the relevant sections of the policy terms and conditions say as 
this forms the basis of Mr and Mrs Cs contract with Mapfre.
Page 18 of the policy document sets out the cover available in the event of a cancellation of 
a holiday. This says:
A - Cancelling and cutting short your holiday
What you are covered for
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below 
we will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on page 5 for:
 Unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to 
pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid 
excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling or 
cutting short your trip
The following are reasons we will accept for you cancelling or cutting short your trip:
 
9. You cannot commence travel to your intended destination due to the (FCO) 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice for your destination/location  changing to 
as a minimum all but essential travel after the purchase of your policy or after the 
booking of any individual trip, whichever is the latter. This also applies to where such 
FCO advice changes are announced after you have commenced your trip/holiday.
So, looking at the above, as the trip was cancelled due to the FCO advice on 17 March 2020 
against all but essential international travel, cover is provided for such an eventuality under 
the policy. 
But the reason Mapfre has declined the claim for the cost of the internal flights is because 
the flight provider provided a credit for a future booking. It says this is a cost which Mr and 
Mrs C can get back and under the terms and conditions of the policy, there is no cover for 
this. 
Ill go on to consider whether this is fair and reasonable. 
Has the claim been declined unfairly?
Mr and Mrs C have told us they have been offered a credit for a future booking from their 
flight provider. I appreciate they also say that the credit voucher was limited and only 
available until the end of 2020. But having looked at the flight providers website, the information theyve provided is clear in 
terms of how a credit could be applied. It also confirms whats available for customers. That 
is, its offering the option of rescheduling, providing a credit or, in certain circumstances, a 
refund. I can see its confirmed for customers who were offered a credit before 31 January 
2022, an extension was available to use the credit for a future booking. So, theres the option 
to make a booking by 31 January 2023 and travel to take place before 31 December 2023. 
With the changes in travel restrictions taking place, flight providers have also had to change 
the options they were making available to their customers. Mr and Mrs C were offered a 
credit before 31 January 2022 and therefore, based on the information from the flight 
provider, it seems a further extension has been made available which I dont think seems 
unreasonable.
Generally, unless the terms of the offer are unreasonably restrictive and/or the consumer 
has exceptional circumstances, Id consider the option to book at a future date to mean the 
policyholder has recovered their costs from elsewhere.
Ive carefully considered this in the context of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances. I dont think the 
terms of the credit voucher are unreasonable or so restrictive. While there was an initial 
expiry date applied to their voucher, my understanding is that this has been extended. The 
flight provider has given options to its customers and I dont think they are unreasonable. 
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Cs comments that there were, and still are, travel 
restrictions in place for their intended destination. However, I can also see that these are 
slowly easing. So, I understand there hasnt been an opportunity to make a future booking. I 
also appreciate that this has been a challenging period because of the uncertainties and 
risks involved in travel due to the pandemic. But, having said that, I have to decide on the 
basis of the evidence available on this complaint. Im afraid because there is a credit 
available for the flights, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
fairly ask Mapfre to accept the claim. I understand the credit is not the same as a cash 
refund. But the terms and conditions of the policy say that cover is available for cancellation 
in the instance that Mr and Mrs C cannot get that back from the provider. Theres no 
evidence which suggests that Mr and Mrs Cs flight provider has said the cost cannot be 
recovered  albeit, its in the form of a credit for a future booking. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the terms of the credit voucher are so restrictive and I dont think 
Mr and Mrs C have exceptional circumstances. As such, I dont think Mapfre has declined 
the claim unfairly. It follows that I dont require Mapfre to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman