DRN-2353851
The complaint
Mr O complains about Nationwide Building Society. He says he bought some solar panels 
for his house, paying the deposit with his debit card. He tried to cancel the purchase with the 
provider, and when it refused he asked Nationwide to carry out a chargeback, but it refused 
too.
What happened
Mr O entered into a contract to install solar panels on his house. He paid the deposit with his 
Nationwide debit card.
When the panel provider came to the property, Mr O says he was unhappy with the 
installation. He says he was led to believe the panels he was buying were made by one 
manufacturer, but they turned out to be from another. He says the company didnt complete 
the installation within the agreed time. And he doesnt think hell achieve the benefits he was 
promised when he agreed to the sale  as hes out of the house all day, he only uses 
electricity at night when its dark, and he wasnt provided with a battery to store energy 
generated during the day.
Mr O asked Nationwide to raise a chargeback for the payment hed made on his debit card, 
which was just over £1,900.
Nationwide asked Mr O for evidence hed tried to exercise his cooling-off rights  his contract 
with the solar panel provider gave him the right to cancel within 14 days. It also said that the 
invoice Mr O had given it showed hed paid for the brand of panels hed received, rather than 
the brand he said he was expecting. It said there was no evidence he had ordered the other 
brand. It said that as Mr O hadnt provided the evidence it had asked for, it couldnt take his 
chargeback request any further.
Mr O asked us to look into his complaint that Nationwide hadnt recovered his deposit.  Our 
investigator didnt uphold it, so Mr O asked for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that chargebacks arent  unlike certain claims under the Consumer 
Credit Act  a legal right. The chargeback process is a discretionary scheme operated by 
card providers. 
But while Nationwide wasnt obliged to make a chargeback claim just because Mr O asked it 
to, Id still expect it to take his claim seriously and treat him fairly in deciding whether to 
pursue the claim on his behalf.
Mr O says that the solar panel provider was in breach of contract because it misrepresented 
the benefits of the scheme. And it misled him about the specific panels he was buying. 
Finally it didnt carry out the installation properly, complete the job or accept his right to 
cancel.
Mr O entered into the contract with the panel provider on 18 February 2019. The contract 
allowed him a 14-day cooling off period  but it also said he could request installation before 
the 14 days ended. 
This is what Mr O did, and the installer visited his property on 28 February. Mr O says, and it 
doesnt seem to be disputed, that the installation wasnt finished that day. Mr O says the 
installer left mid-afternoon. He also says that the installer damaged his boiler, leaving him 
without heating or hot water.
Over the next few days, Mr O exchanged emails with the company. The company said it 
would return to complete the installation, and agreed to repair or pay for the damage to his 
boiler. It also agreed to a small price reduction to reflect the fact that Mr O  a qualified 
electrician  had done some of the wiring himself.
On 5 March, Mr O decided he didnt want the panels any more. He told the company that he 
wanted to cancel, and that he wanted the panels taken away.
 
The company agreed that he could cancel, but explained that he would have to pay for work 
done to date, plus an amount for reduction in value of the panels it would be taking back. 
This amounted to just over £4,500. Mr O refused to pay that. He then raised the chargeback 
request with Nationwide, asking it to recover the £1,900 deposit hed paid.
Nationwide asked Mr O for evidence that he had cancelled within 14 days, in the way 
allowed for in the terms and conditions. And it asked for evidence that the panels delivered 
didnt match the panels Mr O had ordered or been expecting. When Mr O didnt provide the 
evidence it asked for, it didnt pursue the chargeback claim.
Ive looked at all the evidence Mr O has given us, and I cant see anything that might have 
given him the impression that he was being supplied panels by the manufacturer hes said. 
He was given a detailed quote, which included the full specification and maker of the panels, 
before he agreed to go ahead. 
It seems the panels supplied matched the panels named in the quote. So its difficult for me 
to fairly conclude that there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation about the panels 
Mr O agreed to buy.
Mr O agreed to installation starting within 14 days, and in doing so waived his right to cancel. 
The terms and conditions say that in this situation he can still cancel before works are 
completed  but if he does so, hes required to pay for work done to date. 
And while the installation wasnt completed on the first day, the terms and conditions dont 
say it must be  they say it will normally be completed in one day, but may take longer. It 
seems the installer left early on the day, and thats unfortunate. 
But it does seem from the emails between Mr O and the company that the company was 
willing to return and complete the job  but Mr O then decided he wanted to cancel instead. 
Mr O complains about the quality of the installation. The company accepted there had been 
a problem with the boiler, which it offered to put right. But I dont have any evidence that 
overall the installation was unsafe or defective. It was incomplete, but thats not the same 
thing.As a result, I dont think I can fairly conclude that there was a breach of contract in the 
installation either.
Mr O also says that the benefits of solar panels were misrepresented, because they were 
based on him using electricity during the day  when hes not at home. And the system 
included no battery for storing energy generated during the day for use at night.
The quote from the panel provider was based on assumptions about usage. And the system 
Mr O was buying  including the absence of a battery  was explained. They were 
reasonable assumptions. But if they werent right for his specific situation, Mr O had the 
chance to challenge them before agreeing to purchase. I dont think I can fairly conclude that 
there was a misrepresentation.
Ive seen Nationwides records, which show that it asked Mr O several times for evidence 
needed to pursue his chargeback request. I think its fair that it didnt make the request 
without the evidence.
But Ive also thought about what would have happened if Nationwide had made the 
chargeback request on Mr Os behalf. I think its likely the installer would have contested the 
chargeback. And given what Ive said above about the terms Mr O agreed to and the 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think its likely Nationwide would, ultimately, have been able to 
recover his deposit. So even if Nationwide should have pursued the chargeback, I dont think 
Mr O has lost out because it didnt.
Taking all that into account, I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman