DRN-1631005
complaint
Mr U and Mr K complain that Amigo Loans Ltd shouldn't have provided a loan to Mr U and 
allowed Mr K to be accepted as a guarantor on the account.
Background
In July 2016 Mr U took out a guarantor loan with Amigo. Mr K was the guarantor on the loan 
which meant he was agreeing to step into the shoes of Mr U if there was an issue with him 
being able to maintain the payment of it.
A loan amount of £7,500 was offered with an agreed repayment of £296.44 per month over a 
loan term of 60 months.
When the loan was taken out Mr U had a few negative markers on his credit file, including 
two active County Court Judgements (CCJs) and a current account with a default marker 
applied against it with an outstanding balance of £171. This was discussed with Mr U during 
the application and he explained how these related to problems caused by his ex-partner 
and the breakdown of their relationship. He said the debts weren't his and out of principle he 
hasnt paid them. 
Amigo accepted this and said the application wouldn't be declined because of problems in 
the past with Mr Us finances. It instead wanted to focus on what his income and outgoings 
were to confirm if the loan was affordable. 
Mr U explained his income and said he had a minimum income from his business  which he 
said was a limited company hed recently set up  of £700 per month. And in addition to this 
he received a few benefits which gave an additional monthly income of £674.70 with a 
combined minimum income of £1374.70. 
Amigo discussed with Mr U what his outgoings were during this call. These totalled £843.73 
leaving Mr U a minimum disposable income of £530.97.This was based on Mr U not needing 
to pay his mobile phone bills and petrol for work which he said were paid separately through 
his company account.
The loan was agreed and Mr U broadly maintained the payments every month until July 
2019 (one direct debit was returned in March 2017 but this was paid via card payment a few 
days later following a call to both Mr U and Mr K). It wasnt until July 2019 that Mr U missed 
a payment and Amigo started to contact Mr K to see if he could step in pay the loan in place 
of Mr U.
Mr U complained to Amigo about its decision to lend to him in the first instance. He said the 
loan was unaffordable and it had been irresponsible to provide him with the loan when it was 
taken out. He said when Amigo called him to go through his income and expenditure he was 
at work and he was struggling to recollect what everything cost. He didn't think Amigo asked 
enough about his spending habits with his social life and that it failed to ask further questions 
about bills he said were being paid by his business account and not him. Mr K also complained about the manner in which Amigo contacted him to pursue payment 
for the loan and about his concerns around how it obtained his card details as the guarantor 
when it spoke to him to set this up.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and felt Amigo had done something wrong. She 
didn't think Amigo had carried out reasonable or proportionate checks to make sure the loan 
was affordable to Mr U. And had it done this, it would have been clear the decision to lend to 
him was increasing his indebtedness to a point that was unsuitable and harmful.
Amigo didn't agree and said the application was made with a view on Mr Us affordability for 
the loan looking forwards, not backwards. And based on the income he said he was due to 
receive for contracts hed secured it agreed this loan. And if Mr U had maintained this the 
loan would have been affordable. 
Because Amigo didn't agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
findings
Ive considered all the information provided on this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding 
Mr U and Mr Ks complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator.
When reviewing this complaint Ive taken account of the relevant rules and regulations as 
well as what could be considered good industry practice. And considered these as three key 
questions in order.
Firstly, did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr U 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Mr U wouldve been able to do so?
Looking at the first question, I dont think Amigo did complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr U would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way. Ive 
explained why below.
Mr U was borrowing £7,500 over a period of 60 months, so a significant amount of money 
stretched over a long period of time. Amigo needed to carry out checks that were reflective 
of this and check Mr U was able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
Amigo called Mr U to discuss his income and expenditure after the application had been 
submitted. During this call he was struggling to recollect some of his monthly outgoings. One 
example was a long conversation around the cost of childcare where figures of up to £100 a 
week down to £0 were discussed before it was agreed that £0 was the right cost to record. 
The information provided wasnt clear and no detail was explored to understand whether 
what Mr U was detailing as his income and outgoings were correct. And this coupled with the 
fact that Mr U had two active CCJs against his name and a current account in default makes 
it reasonable to expect that further checks were needed.
Instead it appears a lot of weight was placed on bills being paid by Mr Us business account 
which he said had been set up with his new business as a limited company. And that Mr U 
said he didn't really spend much money or go out as he was just working. But I think this 
should have been something which was explored in more detail. Especially as Mr U said the 
loan was to help support his new businesses get started. Mr U also said he had no TV or Internet costs and that his business account paid his mobile phone bill as well as his fuel 
expenses. 
With clear confusion on the totals, I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate to 
request Mr Us bank statements to confirm his income and expenditure.
Amigo has said the application was based on Mr Us future earnings and his ability to meet 
the repayments going forward. So although the earlier months may have demonstrated the 
Mr Us income wasnt enough to cover the loan  his future income based on June 2016 and 
what hed said about future work contracts would have been enough.
Ive considered this and what CONC 5.2A.15R 5 (5) sets out for firms when deciding to take 
account of an expected future increase in income for the income and expenditure of an 
individual:
The firm may only take into account an expected future increase in the customers income 
where the firm reasonably believes on the basis of appropriate evidence that the increase is 
likely to happen during the term of the agreement or, in the case of an open-end agreement, 
during the likely duration of the credit
I dont think Mr Us verbal confirmation alone that he had secured a new lucrative contract 
for his new businesses can be considered appropriate evidence of the increase being likely 
to happen. Mr U had said this contract was only for 9 months but with the loan agreement 
running over 60 months this also left a considerable risk of his income dropping heavily 
again after this. I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate to have asked to 
see this contract when the loan was taken out together with the bank statements. 
From this it would have been clear that what Mr U was saying about his income and 
expenditure couldn't be substantiated. And he had several direct debits that either weren't 
mentioned in the call or had been attributed to the business incorrectly. 
Had the bank statements been requested and proof of Mr Us future earnings, Amigo would 
have seen his income varied dramatically month on month. In April 2016 he had an income 
of just under £1400. In May this dropped to just under £800 and in June it increased to just 
over £3400. This was against total declared outgoings on £843.73 before the loan amount 
was added on.
Mr U was also covering his business expenses as there was no separate business account 
 company invoices quoted Mr Us personal current account as the business account for 
payments to be made to. So this account and its income didn't just cover Mr Us expenses, 
but all the business expenses too. 
June 2016 as an example, when Mr U had his highest income before the loan was taken out, 
shows the difference in these outgoings against what was used on the income expenditure. 
He had spent nearly £270 of additional bills. This included petrol, TV/internet providers, 
mobile phone bills and other direct debits not previously accounted for in. There were also a 
number of direct debits with utility providers indicating agreed repayment plans with heavily 
reduced fees  some as low as 1% agreed repayments.
The current account also showed a sizeable commitment for Mr U who was paying staff 
wages from the account and a large number of high value cash withdrawals. As well as this 
there were a number of payments to buildings suppliers. 
When adding the expenses not discussed to Mr Us agreed outgoings (and while still 
ignoring staff wages and cash withdrawals), he had a monthly commitment of £1113.73 against an agreed minimum income of £1374.70. This left a potential disposable income of 
only £260.67 before the new loan repayment of £296.44 was added.
Overall, I think its clear that the checks carried out prior to deciding to lend to Mr U were not 
reasonable or proportionate based on his situation at the time. And had these been carried 
out it would have been clear that Mr U wasnt in a position to substantiate what he said his 
future earnings would be. This together with a larger number of outgoings not accounted for 
in the income and expenditure showed that the loan was unsustainable based on the 
amount he was borrowing and period this was over.
With the lending decision being based on checks that were not reasonable or proportionate, 
Ive only considered the following two questions briefly  as its clear there was a failing when 
this lending decision was made. 
When considering Mr Us circumstances, at the time application, Ive thought about whether 
there was a point where Amigo ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing his 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
Although Amigo failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think it still ought 
to have been aware from the outset that it was adding to Mr Us level of debt that was 
already unsustainable. It had evidence that he was already struggling to meet his financial 
commitments with the active CCJs and defaulted current account. I appreciate Mr U said he 
was taking no responsibility for these and out of principle wasnt intending to pay them. 
However, whether accepted by him or not, they clearly were debts that he was liable for and 
hadnt been able to repay. At the very least this should have been enough to prompt Amigo 
to carry out further checks which would be deemed proportionate and reasonable as detailed 
above.
Ive also considered whether Amigo acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive looked at everything else that Mr U and Mr K have said about Amigo and how it treated 
them. Both with the information provided by Mr K when the loan was taken out and when he 
agreed to be a guarantor. How Amigo contacted them both following the payments being 
missed in July 2019. And whether there was an error with the interest rate charged being too 
high and not inline with the relevant Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance on this.
There was clearly a failing with the application with the checks carried out with Mr U, which 
Ive detailed above. But I dont think Amigo did anything wrong when it confirmed with Mr K 
whether he was happy to be the guarantor on the loan. 
When Amigo called Mr K to run through his part of the application and set out his 
responsibilities on the account, he agreed it was a good time to talk  this was despite the 
call being made an hour later than had been agreed. If he had concerns that he 
couldn't understand what was being discussed at the time because of being out of the house 
already he could have asked for the call to be returned another day.
When the payments on accounts are missed Amigo has an obligation to make sure it sends 
out reminders and any default notices  especially if arrears are building up. While Mr U and 
Mr K feel this communication has been excessive, I dont think the amount of 
correspondence sent was unreasonable. I appreciate it will have made this situation more 
stressful for them both but the notices needed to be sent when the payments were missed.
As our investigator said, the FCA has introduced a price cap on lending and this cap is 0.8% 
interest  per day but this is for high-cost shortterm loans, often referred to as payday loans. These are normally repayable within a month. The loan Mr U took out was a 
guarantor loan over  a period of 60 months and this price cap wouldn't apply.
my final decision 
Based on everything Ive explained above, I dont think Amigo Loans Ltd made reasonable 
and proportionate checks when Mr Us loan was taken out. Had it done so it would have 
realised the loan was unsustainable and potentially harmful to his situation with it increasing 
his level of debt which he was already struggling to maintain.
To put things right Im directing Amigo Loans Ltd to do the following:
1. Refund the interest and charges (if applicable) that Mr U has paid on the loan 
account.
2. As the loan is still being repaid, Amigo should reduce the balance of the loan by the 
refund amount and no future interest should be applied to it. If the refund of interest 
and charges is greater than the amount still owed on the loan account, Mr U should 
be paid this difference once the loan is cleared.
3. Amigo should remove any negative information from both Mr U and M Ks credit files.
4. If a balance on the loan remains, Amigo should release Mr K from his obligations as 
guarantor.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman