DRN-3261623
The complaint
Mr P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed payment of mortgage funds meaning he 
needed to make alternative lending arrangements and was therefore charged a mortgage 
early repayment charge.
What happened
Mr P had a Barclays mortgage. In 2020 Mr P was purchasing a new property, and Barclays 
agreed to port his existing mortgage and lend him additional mortgage funds. Mr Ps 
property purchase was due to complete on 16 November 2020. 
On 9 November 2020 Barclays told Mr Ps broker it needed to re-key his mortgage 
application. Barclays spoke to Mr Ps broker over the following days. Concerned this delay 
risked his property purchase, Mr P made alternative arrangements to obtain the funds he 
needed  hes explained he agreed to sell a property to a friend, who advanced him funds. 
On 13 November 2020 Barclays sent the mortgage funds to Mr Ps solicitor. These were 
returned on Mr Ps instruction since hed made alternative funding arrangements. The 
property purchase completed as planned on 16 November 2020. Mr Ps alternative 
arrangements meant he repaid his existing Barclays mortgage in full. Therefore, Barclays 
charged Mr P an early repayment charge (ERC).
Mr P complained to Barclays. He said he wouldnt have had to pay the ERC if not for the 
uncertainty its mortgage error had caused. In its final response to the complaint, Barclays 
accepted its technical issue delayed Mr Ps mortgage application and it offered Mr P £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this delay. But it said the ERC 
was charged in line with Mr Ps mortgage terms and conditions and couldnt be refunded.  
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator agreed 
Barclays delayed Mr Ps mortgage and accepted this caused him worry and frustration. She 
thought £200 was fair and reasonable compensation for that. But she thought Barclays kept 
Mr Ps broker informed and provided the mortgage funds before Mr Ps planned completion 
date. She said Barclays delay wasnt so long that she could fairly hold it responsible for Mr P 
choosing to make alternative funding arrangements. She said Barclays had applied the ERC 
in line with Mr Ps mortgage terms and conditions. Therefore, she thought Barclays didnt 
need to refund the ERC.
 
Mr P disagreed. He said Barclays accepted it caused a delay, so it was clearly at fault and 
this directly caused subsequent events. He maintained the ERC should be refunded 
because if Barclays hadnt delayed the mortgage application, he would have ported his 
existing Barclays mortgage and the ERC wouldnt have arisen. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer letter dated 28 August 2014 that Barclays sent to Mr P sets out the 
mortgage terms and conditions. It says an ERC will apply until 30 September 2024 if the 
mortgage is repaid early. So Im satisfied Barclays is entitled to charge an ERC if Mr P 
repaid his mortgage early, which is what happened here. 
However, Mr P says he wouldnt have repaid his existing mortgage early if Barclays hadnt 
delayed his new mortgage application. He was worried the delay would risk his property 
purchase, so he made alternative funding arrangements that meant he no longer needed 
mortgage borrowing from Barclays.
Property purchases by their nature can cause a great deal of worry and uncertainty, and its 
not unusual for issues to arise. In this case, its not disputed that a technical issue at 
Barclays caused Mr Ps mortgage application to be delayed for a few days in the week 
before his property purchase was due to complete. 
However, Barclays contact notes show it told Mr Ps broker about this and kept them 
updated, including on 12 November 2020 when it told the broker it would deal with the 
application by the end of that day. Therefore, Barclays reassured Mr P about his mortgage 
application two working days before his planned property purchase completion date. And it 
paid the mortgage funds to Mr Ps solicitor the next day, on 13 November 2020. I appreciate 
Mr P says hed agreed an alternative agreement with his friend by then. Nonetheless, the 
Barclays funds were available to Mr P and he could have used them. Instead, Mr P chose to 
continue with the alternative arrangements hed made which led to him paying off his 
existing Barclays mortgage and being charged an ERC. 
Though Barclays provided Mr P with the mortgage funds before his completion date, it did 
cause a delay of about three days here. This is a short delay, but I think it caused Mr P 
unnecessary concern at an already worrying and uncertain time. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied the £200 Barclays has itself already offered is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the unnecessary concern it caused Mr P.
Having said that, I dont think the delay was so large that Mr P was left with no choice but to 
make alternative funding arrangements. I say that because Barclays made the mortgage 
funds available to Mr P the working day before completion was due, so Mr P had the option 
to use the Barclays funds and avoid the ERC being applied here. Therefore, it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable of me to say Barclays should refund the ERC it has applied.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. However, Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should pay Mr P the £200 compensation it has itself already offer him, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman