DRN-4400731
The complaint
Miss Ds complaint is about the cancellation of her Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited pet insurance policy. 
Miss D feels that Red Sands treated her unfairly.
What happened
Miss D had two pet insurance policies in place for two different pets. She rehomed one of 
those pets (Z) with her daughter and kept the other (D). Miss D continued to pay the 
premiums for both policies herself.
When Z passed away, Miss D tried to cancel the policy. She said she contacted Red Sands 
about this several times, but those requests were ignored because she was no longer the 
policyholder- her daughter was. As a result, Miss D cancelled her direct debit to Red Sands, 
but in doing so she cancelled the wrong one- instead of cancelling the direct debit for Z, she 
cancelled the one for D. 
Red Sands wrote to Miss D in February 2023 telling her there had been a problem with the 
direct debit for D and asking her to contact them within 10 days otherwise Ds cover would 
be cancelled. They wrote again in March 2023. Miss D says she didnt receive two emails 
from Red Sands- but she find one when checking her junk mail folder after the cover was 
cancelled.
Some months later and after the policy was cancelled, Miss D wanted to claim on Ds policy 
but found that had been the one that had been cancelled instead of Zs. She wants Red 
Sands to accept her claim for D and treat the policy as if it had not been cancelled, by 
swapping it with Zs, which she had still been paying for.
Our investigator considered Miss Ds complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Miss D 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
When we might cancel your policy
We may cancel your policy if you dont keep up with your payments, but well always write to 
you first. If we dont hear from you, well cancel the policy one month from the date we last 
received a payment. We may be able to reinstate the policy if you pay within 28 days.
Miss D has said she suffers from a health condition which meant she made a mistake in 
cancelling the direct debit for D when she meant to cancel the direct debit for Z. Shes also 
unhappy that Red Sands didnt at any point reply to her requests to cancel the policy or tell 
her they wouldnt speak to her because the policy for Z was now in her daughters name.
Im sympathetic to Miss Ds circumstances and I can understand her frustration in not 
receiving a reply from Red Sands when she asked them to cancel the policy. But she wasnt 
the policyholder, so I appreciate why Red Sands didnt respond to her. Equally, I dont think 
they had to inform the policyholder that someone else was trying to cancel her policy. And 
whilst I can understand why she felt it was a quick solution to cancel her direct debit, I cant 
say that the mistake she made was the reason the policy was cancelled.
As Ive set out above, Red Sands wont cancel a policy as soon as a payment is cancelled. 
Rather theyll write to the policyholder first. In this case Red Sands did actually write to Miss 
D. Whether that was once or twice doesnt matter- Miss D acknowledges that one of those 
emails was received by her, albeit in her junk email box. So, although she might not have 
checked this until sometime later, I cant say that Red Sands did something wrong. Thats 
because they got in touch with her on the email address shed provided and gave her notice 
of the policy theyd be cancelling. Their email referred to D specifically so had Miss D 
reviewed the email, she would have known shed made a mistake when cancelling the direct 
debit that she thought was for Z. Overall, I think Red Sands followed the process set out 
within their policy terms. And given Miss D got in touch with them to reinstate the policy 
some considerable time after the 28 days set out within the terms expired, I dont think Red 
Sands did need to reinstate cover. 
I understand that Miss D has been paying Zs insurance premiums long after she passed 
away. I dont know if Miss D has received a refund for these beyond Z passing away. If not 
then her daughter, the policyholder will need to raise this with Red Sands directly. From what 
I can see, Red Sands had no insurable interest once Z passed away so I imagine they will 
refund Miss D for the payments shes made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint against Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman