DRN-4302662
The complaint
Mr O and Ms T complain about the settlement amount paid by Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) under their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr O and Ms T held single trip travel insurance cover with IPA. Whilst abroad, their return 
flight to the UK was cancelled because of strike action by air traffic control. That meant they 
had to remain abroad longer than they had intended, and they had to pay for their hotel, 
travelling to another airport, and their return flight to the UK. They wanted IPA to cover their 
costs. 
IPA paid Mr O and Ms T £160 for the delays. Mr O and Ms T complained about this 
settlement amount, and were also unhappy with IPAs handling of their claim. 
IPA maintained that the settlement amount paid was correct. However, it paid Mr O and 
Ms T a further £100 as compensation for its handling of the claim. Unhappy with this, Mr O 
and Ms T brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought IPAs settlement 
was correct and in line with the policy terms. He agreed with Mr O and Ms T that IPA had 
taken too long to deal with the claim, and noted they said theyd been led to believe their 
claim would be covered in full. However, he thought the compensation paid by IPA for its 
handling of the claim was reasonable. 
Mr O and Ms T didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed 
to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the policy terms and I see that IPA does offer optional cover for travel disruption 
(section Q). This pays up to £2,000 for reasonable additional travel and accommodation 
costs if alternative arrangements need to be made to return to the UK, because of public 
transport (which includes aircraft) being cancelled. If Mr O and Ms T held this cover, a claim 
could potentially be paid under this section. However, Ive checked Mr O and Ms Ts policy 
schedule, and this optional cover wasnt taken out. 
The only cover therefore available for this situation within the policy is under delayed 
departure (section H). This says that if you have checked in, or attempted to check in for 
your flight, and it is cancelled due to strike or industrial action, then IPA will pay benefit. 
The benefit amount payable is:
£20 for the first completed 12 hours delay and £20 for each full 12 hours delay after that, up 
to a maximum of £200 (which is meant to help you pay for telephone calls made and meals 
and refreshments purchased during the delay) provided you eventually travel.
I understand Mr O and Ms T experienced a 48-hour delay before they could return to the UK, 
which meant they were entitled to £80 each. Im therefore satisfied the settlement amount 
paid by IPA was correct. Though Mr O and Ms T have since told this Service they didnt 
actually attempt to check in for their flight. If IPA had looked into this when assessing the 
claim, Mr O and Ms T may not have been entitled to any payment. 
Mr O and Ms T also complain about IPAs handling of the claim. They made their claim in 
November 2022 and it took until February 2023 for this to be settled, which I agree was too 
long. I also understand they were initially advised by IPA that their costs would be covered in 
full. As our investigator has explained, IPA hasnt been able to find this call, but if thats 
correct, then I can appreciate why Mr O and Ms T would have been upset to learn their costs 
wouldnt be reimbursed. Finally, Mr O and Ms T say they were promised a call back from a 
supervisor, but this didnt happen. 
IPA has paid Mr O and Ms T £100 compensation for its poor handling of their claim. I think 
this amount was reasonable and reflects the level of impact caused to Mr O and Ms T by the 
matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman