DRN-3671893
The complaint
Mr S complains about the actions of TSB Bank plc when he was the victim of a scam in 
which he sent money to one of its customers accounts.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr S was looking to purchase a horsebox 
for his daughter from a company Ill refer to as C. In June 2021 he made a payment of 
£7,750 from his bank  H to an account held with TSB Bank. He was expecting delivery of 
the item within 48 hours. When the item didnt arrive, and the seller became uncontactable, 
Mr S realised hed likely fallen victim to a scam. He reported this to H, who informed 
TSB Bankbut no funds remained that could be returned. Mr S complained to TSB Bank 
and asked it to trace and return his funds. In summary, TSB Bank said it had not made a 
mistake and couldnt do more to assist. It also explained under its duties of confidentiality to 
its own customer and the obligations placed upon it by the Data Protection Act 2018, it was 
unable to share with Mr S the level of detail that he would like about its customers account. 
But said that it would, of course, assist law enforcement with any of their enquiries.  
Unhappy with TSB Banks response Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary she didnt 
think there were failures by TSB Bank which contributed to Mr S loss. Mr S disagrees and 
has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear Mr S has been the victim of a scam. I can see he acted in good faith 
and can appreciate why it would feel unfair to him that he should bear the loss. But having 
thought very carefully about everything, Ive come to the same outcome as our Investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. I can understand this will be a very disappointing 
outcome for Mr S, so I will explain why.
 
An account that is later found to have been utilised fraudulently doesnt automatically entitle 
any victims who were tricked into sending funds to that account to a refund of their losses. I 
can only direct TSB Bank to refund Mr S losses if Im satisfied it reasonably failed to prevent 
those, or if it had done something wrong where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
With that in mind, Ive carefully considered TSB Banks actions when opening the account 
and monitoring its operation. I agree with our Investigator and am satisfied TSB Bank didnt 
miss an opportunity to prevent Mr S loss when opening the account. From the information 
TSB Bank has provided I can see it completed identification checks in line with its regulatory 
obligations and I dont think that there was anything at the time that reasonably couldve 
alerted it that the account it was opening would later be used to misappropriate funds. And 
taking into consideration the nature of the account and its expected use I dont necessarily 
think the activity prior to Mr S funds being spent was sufficiently suspicious where I can 
fairly say it ought to have given TSB Bank enough concerns about fraud where I would have 
expected it to have intervened. Im also satisfied TSB Bank took the appropriate action upon 
receipt of notification of fraud from H, but unfortunately no funds remained which could be 
returned as Mr S funds had already been spent. 
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly that TSB Bank didnt do more to trace the money. But I think 
it would be helpful for me to explain that the expectation on a receiving bank with an 
infrastructure like TSB Bank, would be to take swift action upon receipt of notification of 
fraud to limit any further losses from its own customers account (beneficiary account); to 
investigate the allegation of fraud; and upon conclusion of its investigations where 
appropriate return any funds which remain. There is no regulatory obligation or requirement 
on it to trace and/or attempt recovery from subsequent banks the funds may have been paid 
to from its customers accounts. Nevertheless, here I can see that TSB Bank did try to 
recover funds from the beneficiary banks where its customer had paid Mr S funds tobut 
were informed no funds remained. So I think TSB Bank has been more than reasonable in 
assisting Mr S in trying to recover his loss.    
And finally, TSB Bank is required to comply with privacy laws. If it does not have a lawful 
basis for holding and processing personal data (which includes disclosing that information to 
a third party) it would be in breach of those. So, I cant say that TSB Bank has acted 
unreasonably when it informed Mr S that it couldnt share with him certain information it 
holds about the beneficiary accountholder  or about how, where and to whom they paid 
Mr S money and the action it has taken in relation to its customers account. For 
clarification, TSB Bank are also not required to report such matters to the Police  it would 
be for Mr S as the victim of the crime to report the incident to the appropriate authorities. And 
as Ive detailed above, TSB Bank has stated it will co-operate fully with any Police 
investigation. So Im confident it would share any and all relevant information it holds with 
the Police, upon receipt of a request to do so and I think this is fair. 
I note in Mr S submissions he says that he is of the opinion that TSB Bank are liable on the 
basis that it did nothing  not because it failed to prevent the money from leaving the 
account and/or failed to recover it. He believes it should refund his full loss or at the very 
least provide him with some compensation for its lack of care. Im afraid Mr S belief 
TSB Bank did nothing isnt a basis upon which I can fairly ask TSB Bank to refund Mr S 
loss or provide compensation. Here, having reviewed TSB Banks actions Im satisfied that it 
has acted reasonably and inline with its regulatory obligations  and has done what Id 
expect it to do. 
 
Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mr S finds himself, as Im satisfied 
TSB Bank couldnt have reasonably prevented his loss and it has acted appropriately on 
receipt of notification of fraud, I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman