DRN-3947521
The complaint
Mr O complains that when his stationary car was hit by another driver esure Insurance 
Limited recorded this as a fault claim, he lost years of his no claims discount (NCD), and his 
insurance premiums increased. He wants esure to remove the reference to a fault claim and 
reinstate his NCD.
What happened
Mr O had insurance for his car with esure. Hed been insured with esure since 2014. In 
March 2021 Mr Os wife, who was a named driver on his policy, had just parked the car 
when it was hit by another vehicle. Mr Os car was written off as a result of the damage it 
sustained. esure dealt with the total loss claim and paid Mr O the value of his car. 
Mr Os accepted esures offer for his car, but he wasnt happy that his £250 policy excess 
was deducted from the settlement he received. He also wasnt happy that his NCD was 
reduced after the accident, and further reduced when his policy was due for renewal in 
March 2022.
The driver who hit Mr Os car didnt stop. But Mr O told esure the driver was caught by the 
police who intended to prosecute him. From the registration number of the other vehicle 
esure were able to identify two possible insurers. esure contacted both insurers seeking 
recovery of their outlay and Mr Os policy excess. But one said their insured claimed hed 
sold the vehicle and the other said the vehicle wasnt insured with them at the time of the 
accident.
Mr O told esure that as he wasnt to blame for the accident they shouldnt have recorded it 
as a fault claim, they shouldnt have deducted his excess from the total loss payment he 
received, and his NCD shouldnt have been affected.
esure explained that as Mr O had made a claim on his policy and they hadnt been able to 
recover their outlay, the accident had been correctly recorded as a fault claim. If they were 
able to recover their outlay, then the status of the claim would be changed to non-fault. And 
his excess had been deducted from the total loss payment in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
esure also told Mr O that as he hadnt protected his NCD it had been reduced when his 
policy renewed. And because there was an outstanding claim on his policy at renewal his 
premium had increased, but this would be reviewed, and any additional premiums refunded 
if they were able to recover their outlay.
Mr O didnt accept what esure had said. And as the matter was still outstanding following 
renewal of his policy in March 2022, he raised a complaint. He said he wanted them to 
restore his NCD to 13 years as he believed hed paid back any payments esure had made 
through his increased premium. Hed didnt agree there was on ongoing claim, as it was the 
other driver who was responsible, not him, and he felt there was no ongoing liability against 
esure. And he wanted them to recalculate his premium based on his restored NCD.
esure didnt uphold Mr Os complaint, although they did apologise that when he initially 
contacted them in 2022 to cancel his policy, he was told he couldnt do this. They told him 
that a fault claim was one where they hadnt been able to recover their costs, regardless of 
blame. And they said his policy explained this and the impact this would have on his NCD. 
They also said that they hadnt been able to establish that the other driver was responsible 
for the accident. Two different insurers were listed on the insurers database, but neither had 
accepted liability. Mr O hadnt been able to identify the driver of the other vehicle although 
he'd told them the police had caught him and were bringing charges against him. So they 
needed to contact the police to try and get further information, but they said this could take 
time especially if there were court proceedings. 
But if the claim was settled as non-fault, Mr Os NCD would be reinstated, and hed be able 
to claim his uninsured losses from the other driver.
esure provided details of his premium and said his NCD wasnt affected until his renewal in 
2022, when his 13 years NCD was correctly reduced to 3 years.
Mr O wasnt happy with esures response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and initially didnt uphold the complaint. She said she was satisfied 
esure had complied with Mr Os policy terms and conditions relating to a fault claim and his 
NCD. And theyd confirmed theyd reinstate Mr Os NCD once they were able to identify the 
other driver and recover their costs.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators opinion. So she reviewed the case and issued a further 
outcome in which she partially upheld the complaint. She didnt change her mind about 
esure complying with the terms and conditions of Mr Os policy in relation to a fault claim and 
his NCD. But she said that theyd delayed the claim since March 2021 which had resulted in 
Mr O paying increased premiums.  
She said esure had contacted their solicitors about the recovery of their outlay twice in 2022, 
but they hadnt been able to show that theyd chased the police report since 2021. Our 
investigator felt esure could have done more to chase the police for the details of the other 
driver. And she recommended esure pay Mr O £150 compensation for the delays.
esure accepted our investigators further opinion, but Mr O didnt.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os policy provides a definition of what esure class as a fault claim. And its A claim 
made under your policy which we have paid for on your behalf and have been unable to 
recover all or part of these payment from a third Party. Unfortunately, this is just whats 
happened in this case. 
esure have never said Mr O was responsible for the accident. Theyve never disputed that 
his car was hit by another vehicle. But Mr O hasnt been able to provide them with the other 
drivers details. And while there are two insurers listed on the insurance database, in relation 
to the registration number Mr O has been able to provide, one has said their cover ended 
before the date of the accident, and the other has said their insured sold the car before the 
date of the accident. So neither has accepted liability for the accident. And esure cant pursue a claim against 
either insurer without evidence that they insured the third party vehicle and their insured was 
responsible for the accident.
Mr O had told esure that the police caught the driver of the other vehicle and were pursuing 
proceedings against him, but theyve yet to receive details of the driver from the police. But 
hes now told us the police arent pursuing the matter as they havent been able to identity 
the other driver.
Mr O has made a claim for his car on his policy which esure have paid. So until theyre able 
to recover what theyve paid I agree that theyve correctly recorded a fault claim against Mr 
Os policy. And when they paid his total loss claim they deducted his £250 excess which he 
agreed when taking out the policy.
esure instructed solicitors to recover their outlay but until the other driver is identified the 
solicitors cant pursue a claim against the driver.
Mr O had 13 years NCD which esure reduced to three years at this renewal in March 2022. 
His policy schedule sets out clearly what will happen to an unprotected NCD in the event of 
a claim being made. With a NCD of five years or over, with one claim, the NCD will be 
reduced to three years. And when Mr Os policy was up for renewal in March 2022 his NCD 
was reduced to three years in line with this. 
esure have said that if theyre able to recover their outlay theyll reinstate Mr Os NCD to 13 
years. Hes now changed insurer, but esure will be able to provide proof of his NCD, if its 
restored, which he can send to his new insurer.
Mr Os premium increased in March 2022 as his NCD was reduced to three years. But as 
esure acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Os policy I cant say they did 
anything wrong. 
I appreciate Mr Os frustration that another driver collided with his car causing sufficient 
damage for it to be written off, and that because that driver didnt stop, a fault claim has been 
recorded against his policy. But thats not esures fault, the person responsible is the driver 
who didnt stop and provide his details. 
Im satisfied that esure have acted in line with Mr Os policy terms and conditions in 
recording this accident as a fault claim and in respect of the reduction made to his NCD. 
Theyve said theyll review both if theyre able to recover their outlay. Although if the police 
havent been able to identify the other driver, as Mr O has now told us, it seems unlikely that 
this will happen. But if the driver isnt identified, its doesnt mean esure have acted 
incorrectly.
But I do think that esure could have done more to pursue the police for details of the other 
driver. And even if police told them that he couldnt be identified, at least Mr O would have 
known where he stood, and he could have put the unfortunate accident and its 
consequences behind him. Our investigator suggested compensation of £150 for the delays 
which esure have indicated theyre willing to pay. And I think this is reasonable, but Im not 
asking esure to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint about 
esure Insurance Limited.And to put things right I require them to pay Mr O £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced as a result of the delays in their handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman