DRN-2135085
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to him by Canada 
Square Operations Limited in 2001.
What happened
Mr S complained to Canada Square about the sale of the PPI in July 2019.
On 29 July 2019 Canada Square wrote to Mr S upholding his complaint. It offered Mr S 
compensation totalling £560.22 and sent him a cheque. Mr S didnt accept Canada Squares 
offer and my understanding is the cheque was never cashed.
Mr S said that instead of accepting the compensation for the mis-sold PPI he wanted to 
make a retrospective claim on the PPI.
Mr S said he that in 1997 he had lost his job and went through a bad separation from his 
family which all resulted in him experiencing a breakdown and depression. Mr S defaulted on 
the credit card and Canada Square took Mr S to court. Mr S wants to claim for on the PPI for 
the full defaulted amount plus court costs and interest.
Unhappy with Canada Squares response, Mr S asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator from this service thought Canada Squares offer of compensation was fair. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive firstly looked at how Canada Square calculated the compensation it offered Mr S for the 
mis-sale of the policy. 
When a PPI policy is mis-sold Id expect the business to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd be in if the policy had not been sold. To do this Id expect the business to 
refund all the PPI premiums together with any interest and charges incurred due to the PPI 
having been added to the account. And the business would need to add compensatory 
interest for the time the consumer has been out of pocket. The compensatory interest should 
be calculated at 8% simple per year.
Canada Square has sent us a copy of its calculations. I can see it refunded all the PPI 
premiums added to Mr Ss account which totalled £237.64. Canada Square also refunded 
the interest he was charged on these premiums, this totalled £27.95.
And I can see Canada Square added interest calculated at 8% simple to compensate Mr S 
for the time hes not had use of the money. This totalled £294.63 net of tax.
So altogether Canada Square offered Mr S £560.22. Looking at the calculations I am 
satisfied Canada Square calculated the compensation fairly and in the way Id expect it to.
Ive also considered whether the sale of the PPI itself caused Mr S to default on his credit 
card. But looking at Mr Ss statement history I dont think the PPI was a major reason why  
Mr S defaulted on his account. The total PPI premiums charged to Mr S account were 
£237.64 and even if the premiums had not been added to the account I still think Mr S would 
have got into financial difficulties and ultimately defaulted on credit card repayments.
Mr S believes he should be able to make a retrospective claim on the PPI policy for the 
redundancy and sickness he experienced. But the purpose of any insurance is to protect 
against future risks. Mr S has told us he became unwell after he lost his job in 1997. But the 
PPI was not sold to him until 2001 and hed not be able to claim for events that happened 
before the policy existed. Mr S has told us that his circumstances remained unchanged in 
2001. But he wouldnt be able to make a successful claim based on circumstances that 
already existed when he was sold the policy. Instead hed be able to claim the policy was 
mis-sold to him because of his position at the time of the sale. And this is what hes already 
done and been offered fair compensation for.
Ive also thought about what Mr S has said about the court case and associated costs. But 
that isnt something this service would consider as a it has already been dealt with in court.
In summary I think Canada Square dealt with Mr Ss complaint about the mis-sale of the 
policy in a timely manner and has made a fair offer of compensation calculated the way Id 
expect it to. I dont think Mr S can make a retrospective claim because the redundancy and 
illness occurred before the policy was sold to him.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
I find Canada Square Operations Limiteds offer of compensation was fair. If Mr S now wants 
to accept the offer then Canada Square Operations Limited should bring the 8% 
compensatory simple interest up to date and make payment to Mr S, if it has not already 
done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman