DRN-3213782
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs M are unhappy that a car supplied to them under a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn No.1 Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 3 November 2020, Mr C and Mrs M were supplied with a used car through a conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £14,141 over 60 months; with 
monthly repayments of £443.83. At the time the car was just over five years old and had 
done 40,840 miles.
The car broke down in April 2021 due to a turbocharger fault. And Mr C and Mrs M were told 
it would cost them £3,478.91 for the repair, only £1,000 of which would be covered by the 
warranty due to the policy limits. Mr C and Mrs M were unhappy with this and complained to 
Moneybarn.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. Based on this report, 
Moneybarn said the car wasnt faulty when it was supplied, and they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more. Mr C and Mrs M werent happy with Moneybarns response, and they 
brought their complaint to us for investigation. They also arranged to have the car repaired 
independently, at the cost of £870.
Our investigator said, from what hed seen, there was a fault with the car. And the 
independent engineer had said turbocharger failure below 80,000 miles was usually caused 
by factors other than normal wear and tear  the car had only done 41,879 miles at the point 
of failure.
The investigator also said that the independent engineer couldnt determine the reason for 
the turbochargers failure. So, he thought that, given this, the fault mustve been present 
when the car was supplied to Mr C and Mrs M. And this made the car of an unsatisfactory 
quality. So, he said Moneybarn should do something to put things right.
The investigator recommended that Moneybarn reimburse Mr C and Mrs M for the cost of 
the repair, plus interest; and refund the payments theyd made between 19 April 2021 (when 
the car broke down) and 15 July 2021 (when the car was repaired), plus interest. He also 
said that, because Mrs C relied on the car for hospital appointments due to her medical 
condition and to take care of an elderly parent, Moneybarn should also pay £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience thatd been caused.
Moneybarn didnt agree with the investigator. They said that, while Mr C and Mrs M had only 
done 1,139 miles since the car was supplied, the independent engineer said the fault wasnt 
developing when the car was supplied to them. They also said that Mr C and Mrs M has 
purchased a used car and durability was a question of luck  not a quality that a 
reasonable person would demand of such a vehicle. So, they dont feel theres enough 
evidence to question the findings in this case.
Because Moneybarn didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C and Mrs M was supplied with a car 
under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which 
means were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr C and Mrs M to show that it was present when the car 
was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr C and Mrs M took possession of it, 
and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask 
Moneybarn to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 11 May 2021. At the time of this 
report the car had done 41,979 miles  1,139 miles more than when it was supplied to Mr C 
and Mrs M. The engineer said that we would conclude that the vehicle was suffering from in 
use wear and deterioration, resulting in a failed turbocharger unit. There was no evident 
staining in or around the turbocharger unit itself to indicate any blown oil seals, however the 
vehicle when started did display an engine management light was [a] fault code [which] 
would indicate there was a fault coming from the turbocharger.
The engineer went on to explain that the window of wear induced failures is wide due to 
variables and can often range from 40,000 miles to 120,000 miles, above 80,000 miles a 
primary factor is just normal deterioration below other factors are normally major influences. 
The primary cause of most turbocharger wear induced failures can be traced back to the 
engines lubrication system and the oil condition generally. The engineer had already 
pointed out that both the oil and coolant levels were correct and that there was no sign of 
an oil leak around the turbocharger unit.The engineer concluded that the vehicle will require further striping and the turbocharger 
removed from the vehicle and further investigated, to confirm the exact cause of the fault 
and extent of the damage caused to the turbocharger unit in-situ. But the engineer also 
concluded that the vehicle has been on hire for 170 days and covered 1,139 miles  taking 
into consideration the time and mileage since finance inception, the fault would not have 
been present at that time.
The engineer has said that the cause of the turbocharger failure is unknown, and that the 
usual cause of such failure (lubrication) doesnt seem to be the case. He also said that the 
turbocharger failed at the earliest point it could be expected to fail (40,000 miles), so the 
failure would usually be caused by more than general in-use wear and tear. And, to 
determine why the turbocharger failed would require further investigation. Given all of this, I 
find the conclusion that the turbocharger definitely wasnt developing any issues just 1,139 
miles earlier isnt logically supported by the engineers other comments.
The other evidence Ive seen shows that the car had an MOT on 3 November 2020  the 
day it was supplied to Mr C and Mrs M. And the warranty booklet shows that the car was 
serviced, and the oil was changed the same day. The previous service and oil change were 
done on 23 December 2019, just short of a year earlier. 
Based on the above, Im satisfied the car was generally well maintained, and this included oil 
changes. And, as the main cause of turbocharger failure was due to the oil, I dont think this 
was the cause of the breakdown.  And, given the overall comments made by the engineer, 
Im satisfied that the fault with the turbocharger was more likely than not developing at the 
point the car was supplied. This made the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
However, if a strip down of the turbocharger was to show this wasnt the case, I also need to 
consider durability. Im aware that Moneybarn consider durability to be a matter of luck, but I 
dont agree. I think a reasonable person would expect a car to be reasonably durable, 
regardless of whether they were the first owner or not. And a turbocharger to fail on a 
regularly maintained car, at the earliest point it could be expected to develop a fault, and 
where theres no obvious underlying reason except in-use wear and tear, wouldnt be 
considered reasonably durable. And this lack of durability would also make the car of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
So, given the above, I think Moneybarn need to do something to put thing right.
Putting things right
As the car has been successfully repaired, it wouldnt be reasonable to allow Mr C and Mrs 
M to be able to reject this. But I would expect Moneybarn to cover any costs of this repair 
that werent covered by the warranty. And, because Mr C and Mrs M werent able to use the 
car between failure and repair, I also think that Moneybarn should also refund any payments 
they made during this time.
Whats more, due to her medical condition, Mrs M was inconvenienced by the lack of 
available transportation for essential hospital and other journeys. Which meant she had to 
arrange, and pay for, alternative transport such as taxis. So, I think Moneybarn should also 
compensate her for this.
So, Moneybarn should now arrange to do the following:
upon receipt of proof of what Mr C and Mrs M paid, refund the cost of the repair to 
the turbocharger in July 2021;
refund any payments Mr C and Mrs M paid between 19 April 2021 and 15 July 2021;apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr C and 
Mrs M made the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr C and Mrs M an additional £250 to reflect the trouble, upset and 
inconvenience theyve been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr C and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if they ask 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr C and Mrs Ms complaint. Moneybarn No.1 Limited 
must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman