DRN-4298680
The complaint
Mr C complains PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA blocked his account and demanded full 
payment. He would like access to his account.
What happened
Mr C had a credit account with PayPal. Mr Cs account went into negative balance. PayPal 
blocked the account pending the balance being cleared.
Mr C said he was unable to access his account online due to the account being blocked so 
he wasnt able to make payments.
PayPal have said that Mr C was told he could call them and make manual payments. Mr C 
has said he wasnt able to manage his account and see his statements.
Mr C has said there had been an interest payment increase which meant that he wasnt able 
to afford his payments. The interest had increased from 21.9% to 23.9%. Mr C has said that 
the increase in the interest has meant he isnt able to keep up with the level of payments.
Mr Cs complaint is that he hasnt been able to access his statements or make payments 
through direct debits. He has no access to balance information so isnt sure how much he 
owes.
Mr C was unhappy with PayPals response to his complaint, so he complained to our 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought PayPal hadnt acted unfairly 
when it blocked his account. He didnt think PayPal had acted unfairly when they provided a 
process for Mr C to make payments. He thought they had provided Mr C with a way to 
getting statements and he didnt think the increase in interest rates was unfair.
Mr C was unhappy with the view. He said he had waited two years for PayPal to provide 
statements or a way to make payments. He thought we had been unfair and sided with 
PayPal.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. 
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. My findings will focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because I failed 
to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to 
reach what I think is the fair and correct outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. I do stress 
however that Ive considered everything that Mr C and PayPal have said before reaching my 
decision.
Mr C has disagreed with the conclusions reached by the investigator  he says we are being 
unfair and have sided with the business. The Financial Ombudsman service was set up by 
act of parliament as an informal and free alternative to courts. We are a dispute resolution 
service, and our remit is to decide cases on a fair and reasonable basis taking account of the 
law and regulations, codes and good practice. 
Whilst I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider 
what both parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. 
This is how the investigator proceeded and this is how I intend to proceed in reaching my 
decision. I appreciate that it is in the nature of our service and of dispute resolution that one 
party will be disappointed with the outcome that is reached. However, this doesnt mean that 
the process is flawed, or the service is biased, as I have explained we are an evidence led 
service and we look at the information both parties provide before reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Account block
Mr C has complained that PayPal have blocked his account because the account was in 
negative balance. Mr C is particularly concerned that in blocking his account PayPal arent 
allowing him to access information about the account-like statements and he is unable to 
make regular payments to clear the balance, which he was doing before.
PayPal have said Mr C is able to pay towards clearing the balance in his account by 
contacting them and making manual payments. Mr C is unhappy with this process.
I have firstly considered if PayPal have acted reasonably in blocking Mr Cs account. Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions and I can see they provide for PayPal to block accounts 
in certain circumstances including where an account is in a negative balance. So, Im 
satisfied that PayPal havent acted unreasonably in blocking the account.
I can see that PayPal have provided a process for Mr C to pay off his balance and make 
payments by contacting them and arranging for manual payments to be made. I appreciate 
that this is a much less convenient way of making payments and Mr C would like to be able 
to automate his payments as he was doing before. I dont think PayPal are acting unfairly in 
requesting Mr C follow a specific process; and I can see the reason why PayPal are 
requesting a manual process be followed is because of the block on the account, which I 
have already said I think is fair. So, although I recognise its inconvenient for Mr C I dont 
think PayPal are acting unfairly in requiring Mr C to make manual payments in these 
circumstances.
Mr C has said he isnt able to access payments easily as he hasnt got access to his account 
now its been blocked. I appreciate this is also inconvenient for Mr C, but I can see PayPal 
have provided Mr C with a process for him to access his statements, so I dont think they 
have acted unfairly here.
Mr C is unhappy with the increase in interest rate that PayPal have introduced. He says this 
makes it difficult for him to keep up with his payments. A change in interest rate is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution makes which isnt something that the ombudsman service can comment on. Having said that, if Mr C is suggesting that he cant 
now afford to pay off his credit balance he should contact PayPal and let them know. PayPal 
will then take steps like asking Mr C to go through an income and expenditure form. PayPal 
should consider Mr Cs ability to afford the payments with him and treat him fairly by looking 
at ways of helping Mr C afford his payments.
In summary I appreciate that Mr C will be unhappy with my decision but having looked at the 
evidence I cant say that PayPal have acted unfairly when they blocked his account. I think 
they have provided Mr C with a process for paying off his debt and getting his statements. 
Overall, I dont think they have acted unfairly, and I wont be asking them to do anything 
else.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman