DRN-1734734
 
The complaint
Miss C and Mr S are unhappy with the compensation theyve been offered by Legal & 
General Insurance Limited (L&G) for its handling of their claim for fire damage to their 
home. 
What happened
Miss C and Mr S had a fire in their home in December 2017. They made a claim on their 
home insurance, which L&G accepted.
L&Gs contractors carried out repairs to Miss C and Mr Ss home. But they werent happy 
with some of workmanship. A third party appointed by L&G agreed more work was needed. 
Miss C and Mr S were unhappy with the quality of the additional work and said they were 
also having new problems, including with mould in their bathroom. The same third party was 
appointed by L&G to carry out an inspection of the new work. It said some of it was sub-
standard. On the back of this, L&G paid Miss C and Mr S an agreed cash settlement, so 
their own contractors could finish the work.
Miss C and Mr S have made two other complaints to our service about L&Gs handling of 
their claim. Both of these complaints have now been resolved. So this complaint relates to 
events relating to L&Gs most recent handling of Miss C and Mr Ss claim.
In March 2019, L&G offered Miss C and Mr S £250 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused them. In its offer letter, it referred to having made Miss C and 
Mr S an incorrect cash settlement offer, for which it apologised. It said its offer of 
compensation was for the additional delays theyd experienced with the claim and the 
inconvenience theyd suffered.
Unhappy with the compensation L&G offered, Miss C and Mr S came to us. The investigator 
who looked at their complaint upheld it. He thought L&G should pay Miss C and Mr S an 
additional £500 in compensation (so £750 in total). L&G accepted our investigators view. 
Miss C and Mr S didnt. They think compensation of £1,250 more accurately reflects the 
distress and inconvenience theyve suffered.
So Miss C and Mr Ss complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss C and Mr Ss complaint. Like our investigator, I 
think L&G should pay Miss C and Mr S an additional £500, on top of the £250 its already 
offered.In awarding Miss C and Mr S compensation for their undoubted distress and inconvenience, 
I have to think about what is a proportionate reflection of the impact L&Gs actions have had 
on them. My role isnt to punish L&G for what went wrong  as our investigator has told Miss 
C and Mr S, thats the role of the regulator. And I must also say trying to put a monetary 
value to the emotional, practical and other impacts a business actions have had on 
someone isnt  and cant be  an exact science.
Miss C and Mr S were experiencing issues with the second set of repair works for many 
months. Having raised the issues with L&G in January 2019, it wasnt until September 2019 
that the second inspection of the work took place. And the work was found to be 
substandard. So not only were Miss C and Mr S waiting a long time for their claim to be 
progressed, they were also living with, among other things, bathroom mould and poor 
decoration. The work that was meant to put things right for them had clearly only made 
matters worse.  
Miss C has told our investigator that this impacted on hers and Mr Ss health and well-being 
(including the previous Christmas not being nice due to the issues they were having). And 
she said the bathroom was black with mould which kept appearing after being wiped. She 
also made the point earlier this year that the claim was now in its third year.
From the timeline Ive outlined, from the delays Miss C and Mr S have experienced and from 
the condition of their home as Miss C has described it, life was difficult for them for much 
longer than it shouldve been. But I also think compensation of £750 in total fairly and 
reasonably reflects the unnecessary distress and inconvenience theyve been caused. I 
know this will disappoint Miss C and Mr S. But I can only reiterate that there isnt a formula 
for calculating compensation for events such as theyve experienced. And the evidence I 
have of that experience isnt such that I think it would be fair and reasonable to award more. 
This award is consistent with awards from this service in similar circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold Miss C and Mr Ss complaint and direct Legal & General Insurance Limited to pay 
them £750 (that is, £500 more than it has already offered to pay) for the distress and 
inconvenience its recent handling of their claim has caused them.
Legal & General Insurance Limited should pay this amount to Miss C and Mr S within 28 
days of the date we tell it theyve accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, it should pay 8% 
per annum simple interest on that sum from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman