DRN-4214263
The complaint
Mrs G complains that TICORP Limited (TICORP) mis-sold her travel insurance policy to her.
Any reference to TICORP includes all its agents.
What happened
Mrs G took out a single trip basic travel insurance policy with TICORP on 12 April 2022. Her 
trip was booked, and she was due to depart on 30 January 2023 and return on 
1 March 2023. 
Mrs G had to cancel her trip due to illness. So, she submitted a claim with the policy insurer. 
The insurer settled the claim to the policy maximum benefit of £500 for cancellation of the 
trip. 
Unhappy with the amount settled on her claim by the insurer, Mrs G made a complaint to 
TICORP for being mis-sold the policy.  Mrs G says TICORP should have made her aware of 
the £500 cancellation limit on her policy when she took it out. 
Our investigator looked into it and concluded that, on balance, TICORP made Mrs G 
reasonably aware of the £500 cancellation cover on the policy. She didnt think TICORP 
mis-sold the travel policy to Mrs G. 
Mrs G disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
Our general approach to cases about being mis-sold a policy is dependent on whether the 
sale of the policy was advised or non-advised. 
In Mrs Gs case, the policy she took out was non-advised. She took out the policy online and 
completed her own questions on the website. So TICORP didnt provide advice. As Mrs G 
didnt receive advice, TICORP is required to provide Mrs G with enough information to 
decide if the policy is right for her needs and to draw her attention to any significant 
limitations and exclusions on the policy. 
My starting point therefore is to see what documents were provided to Mrs G and whether 
any significant limitations or exclusions were drawn to her attention. 
The process of taking out a travel policy online with TICORP involved going through various 
screens. I can see that in this case Mrs G would have been given an option of taking out 
basic cover (£500 cancellation cover) and given the option of increasing this basic cover to 
£1,000 or £3,000. These options would have been available to Mrs G when she was taking 
out her cover and she chose the basic cover.
Once shed confirmed the cover she required, Mrs G would have received the policy 
documentation for the policy shed taken out. I can see she contacted TICORP asking it to 
send the policy documents as she hadnt received them. TICORP sent these to her by email 
and post, so Im satisfied she received these by email and also by post. Mrs G received the 
policy validation certificate, the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and the 
policy booklet which included the full policy terms and conditions. 
Ive had a look through these documents. They all draw attention to the £500 cancellation 
limit. The policy booklet on page 3 Essential Information also asks the policyholder to 
ensure the policy meets their requirements and that it contains different policy levels  some 
of which are optional and only apply where theyve been selected and paid the additional 
premium. And on page 6-7, The Table of Benefits says the basic cancellation cover is £500 
and the optional additional cover is available subject to an additional premium being paid. 
Based on the above information, Im satisfied that Mrs G received the policy documents and 
that attention was drawn to the £500 cancellation cover she had opted to take on her travel 
policy. Additionally, I can see Mrs G took the policy out on 12 April 2022 and her trip was 
booked for 30 January 2023. She therefore would have had time to consider whether the 
policy she took out suited her needs and to check her policy documents.
I acknowledge Mrs G says she made a telephone call to TICORP on 12 April 2022. She 
says she made the call as the payment for the policy premium wasnt going through online. 
She believes the advisor should have guided her better as he added on extra cover for fire 
and flood. The advisor would have seen her application and should have advised whether 
what she was buying would have provided adequate cover for her. 
I appreciate and have sympathy for Mrs Gs situation. I do understand that she may no 
longer be able to afford to visit her family. But thats not enough for me to say that TICORP 
mis-sold the travel policy to her. Neither Mrs G nor TICORP have provided evidence of the 
call. While I dont doubt what Mrs G has told us, unfortunately, there is no evidence of the 
call. My role is to decide on the evidence thats available and based on what I have been 
provided, I cant reasonably say that TICORP has done anything wrong. Mrs G took out the 
policy online and received the relevant policy documents to read and understand. Theres no 
dispute that she didnt receive these. And Im satisfied that the documents pointed to the 
£500 cancellation cover she opted for sufficiently so that she could check whether that was 
what she required. Mrs G also had time from taking out the policy to the date of her actual 
trip should she have needed to amend the cover. 
Overall, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that TICORP mis-sold Mrs G her 
travel insurance policy. It follows that I dont require TICORP to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint about TICORP Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman