DRN-2835768
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC turned down his loan application.
What happened
In early 2020 Barclays turned down a loan application made by Mr W. 
Mr W complained to Barclays saying that as a long-term customer he felt let down by the 
decision and asked for an explanation about why the application wasnt approved. He also 
provided some information about his household finances for Barclays to review. 
Barclays looked into the loan application as well as the information Mr W provided. They 
said that the application was turned down as it didnt meet their internal score requirements 
and there concerns around affordability. 
Remaining unhappy Mr W brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought that Barclays had carried out 
proportionate checks and that ultimately it was up to a lender to decide whether or not to 
accept an application.  
Mr W disagreed with our investigator and provided more information for consideration as he 
still felt he was treated badly by Barclays. Our investigator considered this information as 
well as discussing things with Barclays. As a gesture of goodwill Barclays offered Mr W £100 
for not being as clear as they couldve been with the explanations of the application process. 
Mr W didnt accept the offer and still remained unhappy about the declined application, so 
the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided a lot of information about his complaint. I want to assure him that Ive 
read and considered everything hes provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive 
summarised what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service.
I think its important to say that its not my role to decide whether I think Barclays shouldve 
accepted Mr Ws loan application. Rather its my role to decide whether I think Barclays 
treated Mr W fairly and reasonably when following their processes and considering his 
application. This is an important distinction. 
When considering an application for credit lenders gather information about the consumer 
including things like; age, employment status, residential status, the amount they want to 
borrow, as well as income and expenditure details. Theres no definitive list of what lenders 
must consider but theyd usually gather this kind of information. The lender will also check 
information for the consumer held on their credit file showing a record of their financial 
commitments and repayment history. The lender puts all of this information together and 
considers the application against its own underwriting, or credit scoring criteria in order to 
come up with a decision.
This is what Barclays did when considering Mr Ws application. And after applying their own 
credit scoring criteria they didnt approve the application. This is a decision they are entitled 
to make. Barclays explained the application didnt meet their internal scoring process and 
there were concerns about affordability. Internal credit scoring processes are confidential 
and arent something a business, for commercially sensitive reasons, would publicly share. I 
know Mr W finds this lack of transparency frustrating, and I can see why, however asking 
Barclays to disclose their credit scoring criteria isnt something I would do. 
Mr W disagrees with the income amount used by Barclays and provided them with updated 
financial details. Barclays considered what Mr W told them but overall, taking into account all 
of the criteria, didnt approve the application. Some of the financial information was about his 
household income as a whole; however the application was just in his name, so Barclays 
must consider income information only about him.
Mr W says that he has an excellent credit score and provided information from a credit 
reference agency showing this. However it is up to each lender using their own criteria to 
assess lending applications, and information from credit reference agencies is only one of 
things taken into account when making that decision. Having a good score from a credit 
reference agency isnt necessarily a guarantee that a lender will approve a loan application.
Mr W raised concerns over how the rejection may affect his credit file. Barclays say a 
manual search wasnt required of Mr Ws credit file so they dont think any enquiry would be 
reported. Even if there is an enquiry on Mr Ws credit file from this application I wouldnt 
consider this in itself to be detrimental. And also its something which Barclays are entitled to 
do as part of the application process.
Barclays has offered to pay Mr W £100 for the level of customer service he received when 
they were explaining the application process. Im happy this is a fair amount for the trouble 
caused. 
Having carefully considered all of the information Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with the application. Barclays decided not to approve the 
application, and this is a decision theyre entitled to make, but that doesnt mean they 
havent acted fairly. I can understand why Mr W is unhappy with the decision made by 
Barclays, and its clear to me how strongly he feels about it, but I wont be asking them to 
take any further action in regards to the application.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr W £100 for the customer service he received.
My final decision
For the reasons explained my decision is that I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should take the action outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman