DRN-2775250
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc charged him interest on his credit card after he had 
transferred his balance to another credit card provider.
What happened
Mr C took out a credit card with HSBC. In May 2020, he arranged to transfer his balance on 
the card to another credit card provider. Shortly after this, Mr C became aware that he owed 
interest on the account. Mr C was unhappy about this and he didnt think interest should be 
payable given that, as far as he was aware, hed paid off his balance in full when he 
arranged the balance transfer. He made a payment to cover the interest that was owed, but 
he also made a complaint to HSBC about what had happened.
HSBC reviewed matters but didnt think the interest had been charged incorrectly. It 
explained that the interest had accrued daily on the outstanding balance between the date 
that a statement was produced in April 2020 and the point that the balance was repaid in 
May 2020. It said that the statement for May 2020  the point that the interest was applied  
was coincidentally produced on the same day that Mr C transferred the funds. HSBC thought 
the customer service Mr C received when he raised his concerns couldve been better and 
paid him £25 compensation.
Mr C disagreed with HSBCs review of matters. He said when he transferred the funds, there 
was nothing to suggest any further interest was owed at the time, otherwise he wouldve 
arranged to make the payment then. He says he was also charged an additional 13p after 
this. He thought the £25 compensation didnt reflect the impact the level of service had on 
him and he also raised some concerns about how HSBC handled his complaint. Mr C 
brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters and didnt think HSBC had made an error in how it 
calculated the interest on the account. She thought the level of service HSBC provided 
couldve been better, but she felt that the £25 compensation it paid was fair.
HSBC didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr C did. Amongst other things, he didnt 
think the amount of compensation fairly reflected the stress and inconvenience the matter 
caused him, nor did it cover the cost of all the phone calls he made to HSBC to address the 
issue. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so, 
I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C reviewed his online banking to see how much was owing on his account. He then 
arranged for this to be paid through a balance transfer. Due to inconvenient timing, that 
balance wasnt fully reflective of the interest that had accrued on the outstanding balance in 
the previous month. Its unfortunate that the outstanding interest wasnt reflected at the point 
Mr C checked his account and made the transfer. However, this was ultimately interest that 
had accrued in line with the accounts terms and conditions, and therefore meant that there 
was money owing on the account.
Mr C said that following a conversation with a HSBC adviser, he was under the impression 
that he shouldve been alerted to the interest that was due at the point the balance transfer 
was being completed. But, as I understand it, Mr C arranged the transfer after reviewing his 
balance himself using his online banking. So, I wouldnt reasonably expect HSBC to have 
alerted him as he suggests. Additionally, Ive seen a statement from April 2020 that provides 
an estimate of the interest that would be charged in May 2020. So, I think HSBC did go 
some way to alert Mr C that interest was likely to be due in the following month. Mr C said 
that he was charged a further 13p following this that he was unhappy about but, as I 
understand it, this has already been refunded. Therefore, I dont consider it necessary to 
comment on this any further.
Mr C is unhappy with the level of service provided. Amongst other things, he says he was 
given conflicting information about what was owed on the account when he spoke with 
HSBCs advisers. He says this caused him considerable stress and inconvenience. I was 
sorry to hear of the effect the matter had on Mr C. Its not in dispute that the level of service 
HSBC provided couldve been better. HSBC has acknowledged that Mr C wasnt given a 
clear explanation about why the interest had been charged. And, as I understand it, these 
phone calls with HSBCs advisers also lasted over an hour including periods of time on hold. 
HSBC paid Mr C £25 compensation for the overall level of service he received. Having 
considered this carefully, and in the absence of any evidence to persuade me the calls costs 
were anything more than nominal, I think £25 fairly reflects the impact on Mr C in the 
circumstances.
Mr C, unhappy with the service hed received, complained to HSBC. This led to further 
interactions with HSBC that Mr C remained unhappy about. However, complaint handling 
isnt a regulated activity, or one of the other non-regulated activities, that this service can 
consider. So, although I understand Mr Cs strength of feeling on this point, I cant comment 
on it. 
My final decision
I dont think HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman