DRN-3874077
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about a secured loan he had with Lender C and which was administered 
by Target Servicing Limited. He was unhappy:
1. with the customer service he received on 30 June 2022;
2. Target didnt send him a Paythru link as he had requested;
3. Target didnt call him back as was promised;
4. he was informed Target was considering taking legal action to repossess the property;
5. because he doesnt think Target is reading what he is sending it and, as a consequence, 
is not doing what it should.
Mr S didnt think the compensation Target had offered was adequate given it had upheld 
three of the above complaint points.
What happened
Mr S took out a secured loan with Lender W in 2007 over a term of 15 years. When 
Lender W ceased trading, the loan was transferred to Lender C in 2018. As Lender C is not 
regulated to administer mortgages, it appointed Target to do so on its behalf. The loan was 
transferred to another lender in April 2023.
Soon after the loan was advanced, payments became erratic. Payments varied from being 
significantly less than the contractual monthly payment (CMP) to being slightly more. The 
payments were also seldom made on the agreed day of the month. No payments were made 
to the loan between August 2014 and May 2018. At the end of the term in July 2022, the 
arrears amounted to over £15,000. The loan was not repaid at the end of the term and 
remains outstanding. 
In October 2021 Mr S sent Target some documentation, consisting of an assisted sale 
agreement, power of attorney and other information. It was explained to Target that Mr S 
was planning to hand the property over to the attorney to be refurbished and then either sold 
or rented out. Target was asked for its agreement.
Target acknowledged receipt of the information and documentation. It told Mr S that it would 
refer his proposals to its senior management team for consideration. Two days later Target 
called Mr S and told it that it would agree to the arrangement if an undertaking was entered 
into to pay it £10,000 when the property was sold. Target also wrote to Mr S solicitors about 
the requirement it had for agreeing to the arrangement Mr S wanted. It chased a response 
several times, but none was received.
Mr S complained in the early summer of 2022. Target responded to the complaint in its letter 
of 12 August 2022. It upheld complaint points 1, 2 and 3 (as set out above) and apologised 
for the poor service Mr S had received. Target offered £30 compensation. However, the 
other two complaint points were not upheld. Target considered that as neither Mr S, nor his 
solicitors, had responded to its communications between 5 October 2021 and 
24 February 2022, it was reasonable that it considered starting legal action. Again, Target 
rejected the last complaint point as it was satisfied that it had acted on the documentation it 
was sent and had only taken the action it had, when Mr S and his solicitors had not 
responded. 
When it was informed the complaint had been referred to this service, Target reviewed the 
compensation it had offered. It increased its offer to £75.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it in part. He recommended an 
increase in the amount of compensation to £150.
Target didnt agree with the investigator and considered that its revised offer of £75 was 
sufficient to compensate Mr S in the circumstances. Target asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to consider the merits of the first three complaint points as Target has already 
accepted that the service it provided Mr S was not what it should have been. As such, I will 
firstly focus on the merits of the fourth and fifth complaint points.
Mr S doesnt believe that Target has responded to his correspondence. I have reviewed 
Targets records and I am satisfied that it did consider what Mr S gave it and asked for, and 
it responded to the situation. While Targets most recent responses to Mr S proposals for his 
property didnt result in a way forward being agreed, that would appear to be because he 
and his solicitors didnt move the matter forward, rather than because of a failing on Targets 
part to respond. 
I now turn to the matter of whether it was reasonable, when Target didnt receive a response 
to its correspondence about Mr S plans in 2022, to move to repossession action. Over the 
years the loan was in place Mr S has had significant difficulties in making payments. I have 
reviewed Targets actions during the time it has been administering the loan and I am 
satisfied that it did what I would expect  it tried to work with Mr S to resolve the arrears on 
the account. As detailed above, after the term ended and the loan should have been repaid 
in full, Target also agreed to the arrangement Mr S suggested, despite its meaning that 
repayment of the loan would be delayed further. Given that the term of the loan had ended, 
and Mr S and his representatives were not responding to correspondence, I dont consider 
that it was unreasonable for Target to start repossession proceedings. 
In light of my above findings, the only remaining matter for me to consider is that of what 
Target should do to compensate Mr S for its service failings. When considering 
compensation, I must take into account not just what events occurred and the inconvenience 
they would have caused, but also the amount of upset that would have been caused. The 
individual aspects of the service failings that form complaint points 1 to 3 are relatively small 
and would have limited impact. However, when the same failing is repeated the cumulative 
impact will be greater. When there are then other failings happening around the same time, 
the upset caused will be greater than the sum of each individual issue. Taking that into 
account, I am in agreement with our investigator that the appropriate sum of compensation 
in this case is £150. For clarity, this is not on top of the offer Target made but includes that 
sum.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Target 
Servicing Limited to pay Mr S £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman