DRN-2255208
The complaint
Mrs E complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by Shogun Finance Limited (SFL) was misrepresented or not as described. She wants to 
end the agreement reject the vehicle and recover her costs.
What happened
 The facts are well known to the parties. As they were set out in the provisional decision that 
I issued on this complaint on 17 September 2020. Ill not repeat them here.
Since my provisional decision both parties have responded, and both have accepted my 
provisional decision. I thank both parties for their replies. As both parties have accepted the 
provisional decision, I see no reason to alter my previous findings or conclusions as set out 
in the provisional decision. These are largely repeated below in my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs E would be disappointed to discover that the vehicle she acquired 
didnt come with all the features which shed expected. And which she said shed been 
assured were part of the specifications.
I dont apply the law - directly  but I do take it into account. Relevant legislation here 
includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
The effect of section 56 CCA means that if theres been a misrepresentation by the dealer or 
credit broker (EM), regarding the agreement or the goods, SFL would potentially be liable for 
any losses Mrs E incurred as the result of the misrepresentation.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement and as a result of the misrepresentation to suffer a loss.
The CRA requires that where the consumer has examined goods by reference to a model of 
those goods, then the goods supplied must match that model unless any differences are 
brought to the attention of the consumer.
Ive also considered the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations of 2008 
(CPUTR). This requires the dealer to disclose sufficient information about the goods in order 
to permit the consumer to make an informed decision about whether to proceed to acquire 
the goods.
Mrs Es complaint is that she was supplied with a vehicle which didnt meet the same 
specifications as the vehicle shed examined. And that she had been assured it was exactly 
the same other than for heated seats.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
For obvious reasons I wasnt present during negotiations about the vehicle. Ive to rely on a 
combination of the documentary information and what statements and testimony the parties 
have provided.
Ive been provided with testimony from both Mrs E and EMs sales agent. This testimony 
surrounds the details of the test drive and the negotiations about the supplied vehicle. And I 
make it clear that Im satisfied that this information represents the honest recollection of 
those involved.
Ive also seen an email dated 10 February 2020 from EM to SFL.
Summarised, this states that the model used for the test drive did have the keyless entry, 
heads up feature, and heated seats. It said the customer didnt request keyless entry or 
heads up but had required heated seats to be fitted to the vehicle she was acquiring. And 
that she had sat in the model she purchased within the showroom. It accepted that Mrs E 
returned within an hour of collecting the vehicle and complained about the vehicle not having 
the heads up feature.
Where information is unclear or facts are in dispute - as is the situation here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its to be expected that different consumers will have a wide range of preferences and what 
one consumer may think important is not necessarily replicated by other consumers. Here, 
Im in no doubt that Mrs E thought heated seats, keyless entry and a heads up feature 
(which I understand allows some display information to appear on the windscreen as 
opposed to the monitor) were what she required. I believe its unlikely that shed have 
acquired the new vehicle  as opposed to the demonstration model  if shed been aware 
they werent part of its specification. I dont find that displaying information next to a vehicle 
is sufficient to justify the requirement of bringing any differences to the attention of the 
customer. It would be necessary to ensure the customer had actually been advised of the 
differences or had read through the documentation.
The basis of SFLs rejection of Mrs Es complaint seems to be founded on its view that there 
was no false statement of fact or omission of information. I find on a balance of probabilities 
that both factors were present. And that the vehicle was misrepresented although I dont 
think that this was done intentionally.
Mrs E has told us she commented on the heads up display, keyless entry and heated seats 
during the test drive. And that she was later advised that - apart from the heated seats - 
these features were included with the new model. She says she had particular cause to 
remember as both she and her husband had incurred penalty points for speeding. She 
thought the heads up would make it easier to monitor the current speed.Im persuaded that this is what probably happened. And that she was told the new vehicle 
had these features. During a test drive theres likely to be a combination of small talk and a 
sales pitch. It seems to me that its objectively more probable that a customer will recall 
specific details of those features of which they are particularly keen than the sales agent. For 
a customer the purchase of a new vehicle is probably an infrequent event. Whereas a sales 
agent is likely to be engaged in many such negotiations each week. And clearly something 
persuaded Mrs E to choose the new vehicle as opposed to the vehicle she had driven and 
had apparently initially decided to acquire.
Even if Im wrong about that issue, I would still be minded to uphold the complaint. Mrs E 
had examined one vehicle but had gone on to acquire another vehicle which  whilst bearing 
many similarities to the test vehicle - had material differences. The CRA requires that any 
differences were brought to her attention. In other words, the obligation was upon EM to 
provide that information. Not on Mrs E to go in search of it. Even if that mightve been a wise 
precaution.
If a consumer has test driven one model and goes on to acquire a similar model but with a 
different specification, then the differences are likely to be material information. The 
consumer should be told this information in order to make an informed choice before making 
a purchase. This also accords with the requirements of CPUTR.
I find on a balance of probabilities that the vehicle supplied to Mrs E didnt match the model 
shed seen and examined and that the differences were not sufficiently brought to her 
attention prior to entering the agreement.
Mrs E tried to exercise the short term right to reject the vehicle. And its now been accepted 
that she should have been permitted to do so. Shes supplied information that the vehicle is 
kept at her home and has remained unused since she returned from EMs premises. Ive 
seen an image of the odometer which shows a reading of 90 miles.
Im aware that Mrs E has incurred the additional costs of insuring the vehicle whilst the 
complaint was investigated. I wouldnt usually consider this to be a consequential loss - as 
consumers need to keep the vehicle insured whilst its in their possession as part of the 
terms and conditions of the agreement. But here as Mrs E tried to exercise her right to reject 
the vehicle within an hour or so, I think fair its reasonable she should recover the costs up to 
the date the vehicle is collected. She should seek to recover any refund of the premium paid 
for any period beyond this date from her insurers.
In summary, I uphold the complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.  Mrs E can reject the 
vehicle and recover the payments shes made relating to the agreement.
Putting things right
 Shogun Finance Limited should now take the following action:
1. End the agreement with nothing for Mrs E to pay;
2. Arrange collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mrs E;
3. Refund all payments made by Mrs E on this agreement. This includes the deposit of 
£3,000;
4. Refund the cost of heated seats;5. Upon proof of payment, refund the vehicle insurance costs up to the date of 
collection;
6. Pay £100 to Mrs E for distress and inconvenience caused;
7. Arrange to have the record of this agreement removed from Mrs Es credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to sums arising from items 3, 4, 
and 5 above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Im upholding this complaint.
I require Shogun Finance Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the immediately 
preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman