DRN-3097373
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy Starling Bank Limited hasnt refunded her £8,459.28 she lost after falling 
victim to a scam. 
 
What happened
Mrs B told us on 6 March 2021 she received a call from a man who said he was from 
Starling Bank. He checked some security details with her and, from what she recalls, 
seemed to know quite a lot of information about her; including her address.
He then went on to explain there were some suspicious transactions on her account and 
asked if she knew how her details were compromised. Mrs B remembered that the previous 
day, she received a message from Royal Mail about an unpaid shipping fee. As she was 
expecting a parcel, she clicked on the link and entered her card details, account number and 
sort code.
The caller indicated that this was the point of compromise and acknowledged that Starling
Bank is aware of this type of scam. He then said in order to stop this happening again, her
account needed to be secured and another Starling Bank representative would call her 
shortly to arrange this.
Mrs B tried to call her neighbour at this point - as English isnt her native language. However, 
her neighbour didnt answer.
Mrs B then received a second call as arranged. She was told that she would need to transfer 
all her money to a secure account. 
Mrs B asked why the number came up as no caller ID and the man offered to call her from 
the number on the back of her bank card. A few minutes later, she received a call from 0107 
930 4450 and this time there was a different man on the phone. The third man, then asked 
her to check the last four digits on her phone and compare it to the back of her card, which 
she did and saw it matched.
Mrs B was now convinced that she was speaking with Starling Bank and completed the 
transfer of £8,459.28. She was provided details of a mans name, account number and sort 
code. When she questioned the name she was transferring to, she was told, as her details 
had been compromised, Starling Bank needed to make her account untraceable so the 
scammers couldnt use her account details anymore. The scammer explained it would be 
changed to her name later that day.
Mrs B completed the transfer and the call ended. She then realised the number she was 
called from didnt completely match the number on the back of her card. The number on the 
back of her card started with 0207. Mrs B immediately contacted Starling Bank and reported 
the scam.
Mrs B told us that at the time, she was in a mentally tough place. Her mother-in-law had 
been diagnosed with cancer and she had been hospitalised abroad in the middle of February 
2021. At the time, because of travel restrictions, it was proving extremely difficult to visit her. 
Because of her mother-in-laws illness and the issues of trying to fly out to see her, she was 
already stressed and worried at the time of the call.
 The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the 
Code). This is a voluntary scheme Starling has signed up to, designed to reimburse 
customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a 
customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer 
has not met their requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider 
whether the customer: 
ignored an effective warning 
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or 
has been grossly negligent. 
Starling issued its final response on Mrs Bs complaint. It explained it was unable to refund 
her money. It said it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place and felt Mrs B did not 
make sufficient checks before making the payment. 
Starling contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money Mrs B paid. But only £4.28 
remained in the recipient account.
Our investigator looked into things and recommended the complaint be upheld. He found 
Mrs B had met her requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In summary, he said:
Starling hadnt provided effective warnings. Mrs B didnt receive a call from someone 
pretending to be a friend or family member  so even if shed seen this warning, she 
wouldnt have related it to her circumstances. The warning didnt explain the 
consequences of proceeding with the payment.
He didnt think Starling had been able to establish that Mrs B didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment was legitimate. He thought it was 
reasonable in the circumstances for Mrs B to think she was dealing with someone 
from her bank.
He considered that the payment should have flagged as unusual as Mrs B 
transferred a large sum and almost her whole balance to a new payee.
He said Starling ought to have fully reimbursed Mrs B at the time she made her 
claim. He recommended that Starling should refund her loss in order to settle the 
complaint together with interest on the refund at the simple rate of 8% a year from 
when the funds left her account to the date of settlement.
Starling didnt agree. In summary it said:
Mrs B wasnt called on a spoof number and it wasnt a Starling telephone number 
either.
Its likely Mrs B would have seen the destination bank as part of the payment process 
and the destination bank wasnt Starling.
Not only was the bank account not with Starling, but the account name was not in the 
customers own name.
It considered its generic warnings should have raised alarm bells. And the enhanced 
warning did ask are they asking you to move money due to their accounts being compromised
The customer did not carry out any due diligence prior to making the payment so 
could not have had a reasonable basis for believing the person they were transacting 
with was legitimate.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Starling should have refunded the money Mrs B 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Starling should fairly and reasonably refund 100% of the money Mrs B lost.
Starling ought to have prevented the loss as the payment should have flagged as 
unusual.
The money was taken from Mrs Bs current account. Its not clear how Mrs B would 
have used the money if Starling had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Starling should also pay interest at the rate of 8% on the money it should have 
refunded as set out below.
I have carefully considered Starlings representations about the warnings it gave and 
whether Mrs B had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But it has 
not persuaded me to reach a different view.  I am not persuaded that Mrs B failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for it to choose not to reimburse her under the terms of the 
CRM Code. And, for completeness, Im also satisfied that Mrs B did not act with gross 
negligence.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met for the following reasons. 
Mrs B doesnt recall being provided with any warnings about the possibility of a scam when 
making the transfers. Starling says the customer would have been presented with a fraud 
warning at the time she set up the payee details. It says the customer acknowledged the 
fraud warning and continued to proceed with the transaction. 
Ive considered Starlings records, which indicate to me Mrs B would have seen the following 
warning when setting up a new payee:
Could this payee be part of a scam? Always verify who you are sending money to as you 
may not be able to recover these funds. A fraudster may tell you to ignore these warnings. 
Visit our website for scam advice.
Because Mrs B selected the friends and family option to make the payment, according to 
Starlings records, there was a second enhanced warning which it says wouldve looked like 
this:Family or friend
How well do you know the person you are about to send money to? Have you ever met
them? Sometimes fraudsters will befriend you online and ask you for money.
Fraudsters sometimes impersonate a friend or family or family member and may have
hacked their email or social media account. If you have any concerns, call the intended
recipient via another means to check it was them.
Are they asking you to move money due to their accounts being compromised? This is likely
to be a scam, get them to verify the instruction with their bank first.
Visit the website to learn more about how to protect yourself from fraud.
Are you sure you want to continue?
Given Starlings records from the time, I think its more likely than not that these warnings 
were given  albeit that Mrs B does now not recall seeing these. So, Ive gone on to consider 
whether these warnings were effective.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, an effective warning must have been (as a 
minimum) understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. Beyond these minimum 
requirements, an effective warning must provide information that gives customers a better 
chance to protect themselves against being defrauded  otherwise it could not have been an 
effective warning. I dont consider either warnings here constitute an effective warning for 
the following reasons:
I dont think the earlier warning was impactful or specific. I appreciate the payee warning 
mentions the consequences of proceeding; in that it warns the funds might not be 
recoverable. But Mrs B thought she had verified the caller as being her bank. She had 
checked the number she was being called from against the one on her bank card. Mrs B was 
in a stressful situation. In that moment, I dont think it would be reasonable to have expected 
her to notice the subtle difference of one digit from a telephone number  so this reassured 
her it was a genuine call from her bank.
Mrs B was guided by the fraudsters to select the friends and family option. The enhanced 
warning which she would have seen at this point refers to fraudsters sometimes acting as 
family or friends. But it doesnt warn against safe account scams or explain how to spot a 
safe account scam. It doesnt bring to life what this type of scam looks like, so Im not 
persuaded the warning is impactful or specific enough to resonate with Mrs B. 
I appreciate it does refer to friend or family accounts being compromised towards the end of 
the warning  but this wasnt what was happening here  Mrs B hadnt been contacted by 
someone by email or social media claiming to be a family member or friend. She has been 
called by someone who she believed was from her bank  so the scenario simply didnt 
apply to her. In any event, I think its unlikely Mrs B would have got this far into the warning 
and I dont think it unreasonable that she moved passed this warning without reading it in its 
entirety as it appeared not to apply to her. In addition, the warning didnt give any 
explanation as to the consequences of her proceeding with the payment, which an effective 
warning requires.
To have a sufficient impact, the warning had to overcome the belief or break the spell and 
trust that the scammer had been able to generate verbally. So, I dont think the warning was 
impactful or specific enough here given Mrs Bs situation at the time, and I can see why it would not have had a material impact on preventing the fraud.
For these reasons Im not persuaded Mrs B ignored an effective warning by failing to take 
appropriate action in response to Starlings warnings.
Im also satisfied that Starling has not shown that Mrs B lacked a reasonable basis of belief. I 
say this for the following reasons:
Mrs B did ask the second caller why there was no caller ID and was called back by a number 
that she thought matched the legitimate number on the back of her bank card. It was 
identical except for one digit. Her attention and focus were specifically drawn to the last 4 
digits of the number by the scammer. In the circumstances of the scam  including the real 
fear that she might lose all her savings, I dont think it would be reasonable to have expected 
her to notice the subtle difference in the telephone number. Therefore, this gave her further 
reassurance she was speaking with her bank.
The scammer knew Mrs Bs personal details including her address. He also suggested the 
likely point of compromise was a Royal Mail message shed received the previous day and 
that the bank was aware of this particular scam. This gave the bank official credibility and 
enabled him to build trust with Mrs B.
I have noted that Mrs B was provided details of a mans name, account number and sort 
code to which she should transfer her money to. Mrs B did question the name she was 
transferring to and was told, as her details had been compromised, Starling Bank needed to 
make her account untraceable so the scammers couldnt use her account details anymore. 
The scammer explained it would be changed to her name later that day.
Mrs B explained that at the time of the scam she was placed under a considerable amount of 
stress and mentally already in a tough place. Mrs B was convinced that if she didnt make 
the payment straightaway, she would lose her savings. This was of course a deliberate tactic 
by the fraudster/s to create fear  in the hope it would disrupt Mrs Bs thinking and make her 
more compliant. On balance, Im satisfied this happened here to Mrs B and that in all the 
circumstances, her response was not unreasonable. I believe that it was difficult for Mrs B to 
think clearly in the moment particularly given she had little opportunity to make enquiries. 
Starling has indicated that Mrs B should have picked up on the sort code for the payments 
belonging to a different bank. But I think the banks expectations here are far too high. Mrs B 
was in a stressful situation. In that moment, I dont think it would be reasonable to have 
expected her to notice the subtle differences in the sort code, or for Mrs B, as a lay person 
without much knowledge or experience of the banking system, to have known how sort 
codes work. Mrs B has described feeling anxious about her account being compromised and 
I dont think she would have been able to think rationally. Its clear to me that at the time Mrs 
B was preoccupied with the matters in hand. I am persuaded that Mrs B genuinely thought 
she was moving the money to another account that she would hold and control. 
In reaching this decision, Ive considered the scene that was set by the fraudster/s for Mrs B 
and the impact I believe this reasonably had on her thoughts and actions. Im also 
persuaded by what Mrs B has told this service about how this scam happened. Her 
recollections are consistent with what she told Starling when she reported the scam and with 
what other victims of scams of this nature have described. 
I am also mindful that when Mrs B made this payment, Starling should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Im satisfied the evidence indicates that Starling shouldve done more to protect Mrs B when 
she was making the payment and that there were indicators that Mrs B was potentially 
falling victim to a scam  meaning Starling missed an opportunity to step in and question 
the payment before it left Mrs Bs account.
Mrs B usually had around £5,000 or more in her account. Prior to the scam the largest 
payment Mrs B had made out of her account was for £830 to a regular payee. So when 
transferring over £8,000, what was unusual here was Mrs B had previously not made such 
a large single payment to a new payee by faster payment. I think it is also relevant that 
money was moved from Mrs Bs savings pot into her payments account and out to the 
scammers account within the space of around 30 minutes.
Not only was the transfer of funds quick - but following the transfers - according to her bank 
statements - the balance in her account was reduced to almost zero. Safe account scams 
have very particular characteristics, customers will often quickly consolidate all of their funds 
into one account and then quickly transfer the total balance out, to a new payee, reducing 
their account balances to zero or almost zero. They do so in the belief that fraudsters have 
access to their accounts, and they need to remove all of their money, as quickly as possible, 
in order to safeguard it. The activity that took place on Mrs Bs account had the hallmarks of 
a classic safe account scam and is the type of suspicious account activity that Starling 
should be on the look-out for.
Banks such as Starling have actual or constructive knowledge of all the main scams, such 
as this (i.e. impersonation / safe account scam). So, had Starling intervened and asked 
Mrs B appropriate questions about transfers, as Mrs B hadnt been given a cover story or 
coached what to say, I think Mrs B would have explained that she had been contacted by 
the bank and was in the process of securing her funds by moving them to the new account 
that had been set up for her. Starling should then have been on alert that Mrs B could 
possibly be at risk of financial harm  given its knowledge of these types of scams. 
Starling would then have been in a position to explain that banks never request customers 
to move money, and importantly, could have brought to life, very simply, what a safe 
account scam would look and feel like. It could have explained that scammers can 
impersonate banks and appear to be genuine by using spoofed numbers and gain trust by 
using some personal information about customers. Put simply, had the type of scam Mrs B 
was at potential risk of, been explained to her, and what steps she needed to take to 
protect herself, I believe the scam would have been prevented and Mrs B would not have 
lost the funds she did.
So, I do think the nature of the transactions that Mrs B was requesting were unusual and 
out of character compared to her usual account activity. I therefore think Starling ought 
fairly and reasonably to have made enquiries about the purpose of the payment before it 
processed it. These findings dont impact the outcome of the case, but they do impact the 
date the interest should be awarded for the payment.
Overall, Im not persuaded Starling has shown that Mrs B made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payment was legitimate, and Im satisfied she wasnt 
grossly negligent for broadly the same reasons.  I also think Starling ought fairly and 
reasonably to have made enquiries about the purpose of the payment before it processed it.  
Putting things rightFor the reasons set out above, Ive decided that Mrs B ought reasonably to have been fully 
refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Starling Bank Limited to pay her: 
All of the money she lost  £8,459.28 (less the £4.28 already returned to her)  within 
28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus 
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible 1) from the date of loss to the date of settlement; 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited and direct it to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
1 If Starling is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Mrs B a tax deduction 
certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.