DRN-3269657
The complaint
Mr F complains about the actions of Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax when he was 
tricked into making payments on his credit card as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Between October 2019 and January 2020 Mr F made payments to two merchants through 
cryptocurrency exchanges. In total he sent around £49,000 to the two merchants, through 
the cryptocurrency exchanges, with his debit card and a £10,000 online transfer. On 30 
December 2019 Mr F made four payments on his credit card, totalling around £12,000 
including transaction fees, again to cryptocurrency exchanges. When Mr F tried to make the 
fourth payment the credit card was blocked, and he had to speak to Halifax for the last 
payment to be released. Following this conversation, the credit card payment was released. 
Mr F has also raised the debit card and online payments as a complaint, but these are part 
of other complaints this service is considering. 
In February 2020 Mr F contacted Halifax to let it know he had been scammed. Halifax 
considered the matter but said Mr F wasnt entitled to a refund of the money he had lost 
because chargeback and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 didnt apply in the 
circumstances. 
Mr F remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said Halifax 
shouldve raised a chargeback or a Section 75 claim for the money he lost. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the payments on the 
credit card were unusual and suspicious, so Halifax had reasonable grounds to stop the 
payments and speak to Mr F which is what Halifax did. And after listening to the call, she 
said Halifax gave a suitable fraud and scams warning and explored the reasons why Mr F 
was making the payments. And she didnt think Mr F had reasonable grounds to claim the 
money back via a chargeback or Section 75.
Mr F disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he was the victim of a cruel 
scam and Halifaxs misconduct meant he had lost his money. He said Halifax failed to stop 
the unusual and suspicious transactions on his credit card.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr F feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Mr F for the purposes of 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), in force at the time. This is because it was 
made by Mr F when he completed the transactions. These must be regarded as authorised 
payments even if Mr F believes he was the victim of a sophisticated scam. 
As a starting position, banks are under an obligation to follow their customers instructions. 
Banks have a duty to make payments or accommodate cash withdrawal requests correctly 
and promptly so that legitimate payments are made correctly. So, consumers who authorise 
a payment, even where that turns out to be fraud related or they were tricked into doing so, 
start off on the back-foot when it comes to getting that payment returned to them because 
the bank was following a valid instruction. 
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account relevant rules, 
codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that something was not right 
or should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making 
the payment. So, I have looked into what this means for this case and whether Halifax 
should have done more here to prevent the payments in dispute.
Ive listened to the call Mr F had with Halifax in December 2019. Mr F confirmed that he had 
sent money to the cryptocurrency exchange before and that he trusted it. And Mr F 
confirmed he had done his homework on the merchant he named to Halifax during the call 
when Halifax queried why the payment was going to a different company. Halifax then 
correctly explained to him that the payment was blocked due to common scams of this 
nature and that when making any investment of cryptocurrency it can be very hard for the 
bank to recover any funds. Despite this warning from Halifax, Mr F went ahead with that 
payment. 
I note that a warning was later published on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website in 
relation to the merchant Mr F mentioned to Halifax on the call, but that didnt happen until 
February 2020. So, it wouldnt have been available to view at the time of this conversation.
Im satisfied Mr F was under the influence of the scammers at this point. And I note he was 
provided with a detailed booklet by both scammers and due to his own research into the 
investment, this helps explain why the warning from Halifax didnt stop the scam. But just 
because the scam was sophisticated and Mr F was a clear victim, that doesnt automatically 
mean that Halifax should be held liable for whats happened here. I can only ask Halifax to 
refund some or all of Mr Fs money in the event I think it made a clear mistake. But, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it did. I think Halifax did enough to highlight the 
risks associated with the payment Mr F was instructing but ultimately it was his choice to 
proceed with the payment. And even if I were to think that Halifaxs intervention ought to 
have come sooner in the series of payments made on his credit card, Ive no reason to 
conclude that the intervention would have had a different outcome. 
Chargeback and Section 75 
Ive considered whether Mr F had any chargeback or Section 75 rights regarding his 
payments. Having done so, I am not satisfied he did. Here the payments were made to 
cryptocurrency exchanges and not to the scammers directly. This means that a chargeback 
claim can only be considered against the merchants that received the funds (the 
cryptocurrency exchanges), and in relation to the service they provided. There is no right to a chargeback, if a card issuer thinks there is no reasonable chance of the claim succeeding 
it can choose not to raise a chargeback claim. In these circumstances, I dont think the 
outcome reached and Halifaxs decision to not raise a chargeback claim was unreasonable. 
With the payments being made to a cryptocurrency exchanges its most likely they wouldve 
defended the claim; and been able to evidence that it simply did what was asked of it: in 
return for Mr Fs Mastercard payment, they exchanged and remitted an equivalent amount in 
cryptocurrency to the wallet addresses that it had been provided with. I appreciate Mr F was 
tricked into making the payments but for the purposes of Mastercards scheme rules it would 
be considered that he received the service he paid for.  
The investigator has already set out the requirements for a successful Section 75 claim to be 
met so I wont repeat all of those here. But one of the criteria that needs to be met is a valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement between the parties. 
Mr F claims that the scammers didnt provide him with the services/goods it promised in 
return for the payments he made. So, for the purposes of the DCS agreement the scammers 
are the supplier. However, the payment was made to the cryptocurrency exchanges. So I 
would need to see evidence that would satisfy me that the cryptocurrency exchanges were a 
party to the contract between Mr F and the scammers as there is no right under Section 75 
to pursue a like claim against a third party who wasnt privy to the debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship. Ive not seen any evidence linking the cryptocurrency exchanges to the 
scammers, so it follows that Mr F doesnt have the required DCS agreement in place to 
make a Section 75 claim. And the cryptocurrency exchanges cant be considered the 
supplier here as they didnt do anything wrong. 
So, I dont consider it unreasonable of Halifax not to pursue a chargeback or Section 75 
claim on Mr Fs behalf.
I dont think Halifax are responsible for errors which prevented the recovery of any of Mr Fs 
funds. Its sadly a common feature of these scams that the funds are quickly moved on from 
the beneficiary accounts. Indeed, Mr F has confirmed that the money was moved very 
quickly to the scammers, so Im satisfied Halifax didnt do anything wrong when it wasnt 
able to recover his money here. 
Im sorry to hear Mr F has been a victim in this way, but I dont think Halifax are responsible 
for his loss and so I cant fairly ask them to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman