DRN-1830430
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P has complained after the whole of life policy Mrs P had with Aviva Life 
and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) lapsed due to non payment of premiums.
What happened
Mrs P had a whole of life policy with Aviva and the monthly premiums were paid from an 
account in her husbands name. Mr P also became a trustee on the policy in March 2017.
Mr and Mrs P moved abroad in May 2017. Mr P says that all businesses were updated with 
their new address and they had a post redirection service from their previous UK address. 
In November 2017 a mailing was returned to Aviva from Mrs Ps UK address as addressee 
unknown. Aviva say they therefore placed a gone away marker against Mrs P at that 
address and sent an email to the email address they had on record for her, to explain that 
they may have some incorrect contact details for her. The email asked her to contact Aviva 
to update these.
In March and April 2018, the monthly direct debit for the policy was returned unpaid. Aviva 
say as there was a gone away marker placed against Mrs P at the UK address, she was 
not written to. Instead two letters were sent to Mr P in March and April 2018, as the payer on 
the policy. However, these letters were also sent to the UK address and were later returned 
to Aviva in July 2018, as addressee unknown.
Following non-payment of the second monthly premium, the policy lapsed. Aviva say they 
tried to contact Mrs P on the telephone and left her a voicemail message, but she did not 
respond to them to reinstate the policy. Aviva has also provided a copy of a letter they sent 
to Mr P, at the new address abroad. They say this letter was sent to Mr P as trustee of the 
plan, because it had lapsed. Aviva say this was the only letter sent to the new address, 
because Mr P had recorded it on the trust deed form. The letter explained that the policy had 
lapsed but that it could also be potentially reinstated  within thirteen months, but a  medical 
questionnaire may need to be completed.
I am sorry to say that Mrs P passed away in March 2019. The estate of Mrs P found out in 
June 2019 that this life cover policy had lapsed and complained to Aviva. 
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt
be upheld. He felt Aviva had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions and that they 
had previously made sufficient attempts to get hold of Mrs and Mr P to make them aware of 
the status of the policy.
The estate of Mrs P remained unhappy, they said neither Mrs or Mr P had received any 
contact from Aviva regarding the missed premiums and they had not noticed the direct debit 
wasnt being taken from the UK account, as it wasnt being as actively used anymore. They 
also felt that the policy should be reinstated as they had got back to Aviva within the 13 
months stated on the April 2018 letter. As no agreement was reached, the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to express my sympathy to Mrs Ps family for their loss. And I am sorry that 
events since then have added to this distress. I am also sorry if my own decision does so 
too, but I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. I will explain why.
Firstly, Ive considred whether Aviva acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. I 
have asked Aviva for a copy of these and I know they were provided to Mrs P through her 
advisor at the time the policy was taken out. 
The terms and conditions state that if you miss a payment, you have 30 days after the due 
date to catch up. If, after 30 days, payment has not been made, your AXA Protection 
Account will be cancelled. As no payment was made to the policy in March or April 2018, I 
am satisfied that Aviva acted in accordance with them and cancelled the policy 
However, Ive also consdiered whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling the 
policy and refusing to reinstate it.  
Aviva did not write to Mrs P after either the March or April 2018 payments were missed. 
They have said this is because they had applied a gone away marker for Mrs P at her UK 
address, following returned mail at the end of 2017. Aviva have explained that it is its 
procedure to not keep writing to someone at an address, when they have been made aware 
they no longer live there. I am satisfied that doing so could have data protection implications 
and I agree that this was the right thing to do. However, I also think Aviva should have then 
taken all reasonable steps to let Mrs P know that the premiums had been missed and that 
the policy was going to be cancelled. 
Aviva did write to Mr P, following the missed premiums in March and April 2018. However, 
these letters were sent to the UK address, which we now know they had left in May 2017. Mr 
P has rightly asked why these were not sent to the address abroad, that he gave them when 
he became trustee on the policy. Avivas response is that the form Mr P completed was to 
add him as a trustee and at what address to do so. This did not change his address as payer, 
or Mrs Ps address as the policy holder. This will disappoint the estate of Mrs P. Whilst I 
appreciate that in an ideal world an employee of Aviva would have picked up on the 
conflicting information, I am aware from my experience that this is often done electronically 
and automatically. I accept the reasoning that Aviva have given and I think that although 
ideally more would have been done, they have acted reasonably. 
Aviva did send one letter to Mr P as trustee at the new foreign address. Whilst Mr P has said 
he did not receive this, I have received a copy of it and it was addressed correctly. I have no 
reason to doubt that Aviva sent it and cant hold them responsible if Mr P didnt receive it. This is also the case in regard to the letter following the missed premiums. The estate of Mrs 
P has said that a mail forwarding service was in place to the new address, but these letters 
were not received. I have seen a copy of them and the UK address was correct on them. I 
have no reason to doubt they were sent and it is not the fault of Aviva if they were not 
received. 
The estate of Mrs P has also said that Aviva were provided with a change of address 
request. However, I have not been provided with a copy of it, there is no note of it on the file 
or anything further to suggest it was given to Aviva. I therefore cannot hold them responsible 
for continuing to have the old address on the system and not updating it. 
Aviva did also attempt a phone call with Mrs P on 10 April 2018. They have provided me 
with a call log to show this and to show that a voicemail message was left. There is nothing 
to show that there was a response to this message. 
Aviva believe that Mr and Mrs P should have noticed that the monthly premium hadnt been 
taken from the account for over a year. Whilst I would ordinarily acknowledge this as a valid 
point, Mr P has made me aware that he was no longer actively using the UK bank account 
and so hadnt noticed that the payments hadnt been taken. I think this is reasonable and so 
I dont think that it is due to this that they should have been aware that the payments were 
missed. 
The estate of Mrs P has also pointed to the letter stating that the policy had been cancelled 
due to missed payments. It states that the policy could be reinstated wthin 13 months and 
the estate of Mrs P is unhappy that this wasnt done despite getting in touch with Aviva 
within this timeframe. Aviva has said that whilst this would have been considered at their 
discretion, the policy cannot be reinstated if the consumer has passed away. I am satisfied 
with this explanation. A medical questionnaire might be required after a policy has not been 
in place for so many months. And allowing a policy to be reinstated for a claim, a year after a 
policy is cancelled, means a consumer would ultimately have cover continuing after missing 
payments. That wouldnt be fair to businesses and I think Aviva have acted reasonably in not 
allowing the policy to be reinstated. 
Overall, I believe that whilst Aviva could have done more to make Mr and Mrs P aware of 
the status of the policy, I do think that enough reasonable steps were taken. This includes 
writing to Mr P at both addresses and leaving a voicemail message for Mrs P.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman