DRN-2919220
The complaint
Mrs W complains about success fees SN Marketing Services Limited trading as My PPI 
Refund (MPR) charged her for payment protection insurance (PPI) claims made on behalf of 
her late husband.
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs W instructed MPR to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI on behalf of her late 
husband who had passed away many years before. 
In September 2019, the lender made a settlement offer of over £6,000 for PPI that had been 
sold alongside loans taken out by Mr W. But the cheque it issued was in the name of Mr W, 
which meant that Mrs W was unable to cash it. Mrs W then had to contact the lender and 
provide further information for the payment to be sent to her. In the meantime, MPR began 
to pursue Mrs W for its success fee.
After accepting Mrs W as the administrator of her late husbands estate, the lender made 
another settlement offer for PPI which had been sold with credit cards held by Mr W. It paid 
the redress (of almost £15,000) into Mrs Ws bank account. Shortly afterwards, MPR 
invoiced Mrs W for its success fee for this.
 
Mrs W complained to MPR about the fees. She felt shed done most of the work herself as 
shed had to pursue the lender for the first payment after the cheque was issued in her late 
husbands name. She also didnt believe MPR had any claim for a fee for the second 
settlement the lender had made. 
MPR said Mrs W had given it authority to deal with her claims. It said its notes indicated it 
had asked her to contact the lender to provide information that her husband was deceased 
and she was next of kin but this didnt mean she was doing the work herself. It said MPR 
had made all other necessary contact and had submitted the claim in the first instance. It 
said it had advised Mrs W her account would remain on hold until the cheques were issued 
in the correct name. 
Mrs W remained unhappy, so she asked our service to look into her complaint. Our 
investigator didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He didnt think MPR had 
treated her unfairly as it had submitted the PPI claim Mrs W had asked it to raise and the 
fees were in line with what shed agreed to pay.
Mrs W disagreed with our investigators view. She didnt agree that MPR was involved in the 
second claim which was discovered after the lender recognised her as the administrator of 
her late husbands estate. So, her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mrs W engaged MPRs services she appears to have electronically signed a letter of 
authority (LOA) giving MPR authority to claim for mis-sold PPI against the lender. By signing 
the LOA, Mrs W also agreed to MPRs terms and conditions which state that its fee as 20% 
+VAT (24%) of the redress we obtain for you as a result of a successful claim.
After the lender confirmed that there was PPI on Mr Ws loan accounts, MPR phoned Mrs W 
to let her know. It asked her to confirm if she was happy for it to proceed with her claim or 
any additional claims it might find PPI on and Mrs W agreed she was. MPR also confirmed 
that its fee for a successful claim was 20% plus VAT and this was on a no win, no fee 
basis.
Its not clear, from what Ive seen, whether or not MPR made the lender aware that Mrs Ws 
husband had passed away. But I can see that the lender sent letters requesting further 
information, which were addressed to Mr W. These included requests to verify Mr Ws 
identity. Copies of these letters were sent to MPR with covering letters which said: We 
encourage your clients to complete any further requests for information themselves and 
therefore this does not require any further action from you at this time. So, I think Mrs W 
had the opportunity to make sure MPR was aware that her husband had passed away 
before the settlement offer was made. 
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mrs W to receive a cheque from the lender made out in her 
late husbands name. MPRs notes show that it contacted the lender to try to help resolve 
the matter. Its noted it told Mrs W that the lender said its bereavement team would contact 
her directly to let her know what documents she needed to provide. Mrs W has also told us 
that the lender would only deal directly with her or with the ombudsman service. From what 
Ive seen and been told, MPR put its collections process on hold once it was aware that   
Mrs W was unable to bank the cheque. So, I dont think there was anything further MPR 
could have done to resolve things for Mrs W.
Mrs W feels strongly that MPR shouldnt be able to claim its fee for the second settlement 
she received from the lender. She says MPR wasnt involved with this as it was only 
discovered after she was made administrator of her husbands estate. But when Mrs W 
engaged MPRs services, she gave her authority for it to pursue all PPI claims against the 
lender. When it submitted the claim to the lender MPR included a copy of the letter of 
authority with Mrs Ws electronic signature. The boxes for credit card, loan and 
mortgage are marked.
 
The lender sent a copy of the settlement letter for the second claim to MPR, so it also 
appears to have recognised MPR as being Mrs Ws representative. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys deadline for claims for mis-sold PPI was 29 August 2019. 
So, I dont think Mrs W would likely have received any redress from the lender if it hadnt 
been for MPRs involvement.
 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs W who is being asked to pay a significant 
amount of money, but MPR made it clear that the agreement was on a no win, no fee 
basis. This meant that the fees didnt need to reflect the amount of work or time MPR spent 
on her case. If the claim had been unsuccessful, Mrs W wouldnt have been required to pay 
anything. While I appreciate it was frustrating for her, I also dont think MPR is responsible 
for the lender choosing to deal with Mrs W directly. So, I think its fair for MPR to charge   
Mrs W its success fees. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman