DRN-2188159
The complaint
Ms B and Mr G complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE acted unfairly and unreasonably 
when it declined their claim under a travel insurance policy. They want the claim paid and 
compensation for trouble and upset.
What happened
Ms B and Mr G had a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes. They were due to 
travel to Thailand on 10 February 2020 with a short lay over in China but didnt take out 
insurance at the time they booked the trip. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
issued advice that people shouldnt travel to China unless essential on 28 January 2020 
(after advising only essential travel to Wuhan on 22 January). Ms B and Mr G changed the 
lay over to Dubai instead on 30 January 2020. They claimed for the extra costs caused by 
this change under their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It explained that the policy wasnt bought until 27 January 
2020. This was after the FCO had advised against travel to Wuhan and the day before the 
FCO advised against non-essential travel to China. It thought Ms B and Mr G only bought 
the policy because theyd become aware of the Coronavirus pandemic, and said the policy 
only covered claims in circumstances where a claim mightnt be reasonably anticipated.
Ms B and Mr G complained to us, saying that theyd wanted cover for their activities while 
abroad, rather than because of Coronavirus. The investigators view was that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. She said that Ms B and Mr G couldnt reasonably have predicted the 
claim they later made when they took out the policy as there were no relevant travel 
warnings at that time, and the location of the layover was far from Wuhan. But the 
investigator noted that the policy didnt cover the claim made so it was fair and reasonable 
for Great Lakes to have declined the claim.
Ms B and Mr G disagreed. They said that by changing their travel plans, theyd saved 
Great Lakes money as it was cheaper than cancelling the trip. Ms B and Mr G agreed 
though that the exclusion didnt apply in their case. The investigator explained that the trip 
hadnt been cancelled, just changed, and it was fair and reasonable for insurers to only pay 
for claims covered by the policys terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to Great Lakes, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is whether the claim is covered by the policy at all. Not every possible 
event is automatically covered by a policy  its limits are set by the insurer. The terms and 
conditions of the policy sets out what is and isnt covered, and it doesnt cover the situation 
here. If a policy-holder changes their travel plans on the way to the holiday and incurs extra 
costs, the policy doesnt see this as a cancellation or cutting short the trip (and in such 
circumstances covers the unused costs). The travel delay, missed departure or travel 
disruption cover doesnt apply either to the circumstances of Ms B and Mr Gs claim.
I appreciate that Ms B and Mr G wanted to ensure that their trip went ahead as planned, that 
they wanted to avoid a layover in China, and they acted with the intention of mitigating their 
wider losses. However, having considered the policy, I dont think it covers Ms B and Mr Gs 
claim as the trip was only changed. I think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to 
decline the claim in all the circumstances.
I note the general exclusion relied upon by Great Lakes says that the policy doesnt provide 
cover if arranged in circumstances where a claim might reasonably be anticipated but I 
dont think it applies to Mr B and Mr Gs case. As the claim isnt covered by the policy, the 
issue of the exclusion isnt relevant and doesnt change the outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr G to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 January 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman