DRN-2795817
The complaint
Ms D complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance allowed a fraudster to take out a loan in her name.
What happened
Ms D says she found out she had been the victim of identity theft when she received letters 
about the borrowing. She says that Barclays Partner Finance didnt make sufficient checks 
when it agreed this loan in her name to pay for a purchase through a retailer and didnt take 
responsibility for what happened.
Barclays Partner Finance said that it hadnt made an error. It confirmed that the application 
had been fraudulent. And it said that it would remove the balance and close the account and 
update Ms Ds credit file.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it do anything more. He said that Barclays Partner 
Finance had put things right and Ms D didnt have a financial loss. The person responsible 
for the distress caused was the person who took out the loan in Ms Ds name and who had 
also deceived the retailer involved. Ms D had contacted Barclays Partner Finance on 4 
February 2021, and it had issued a final response dated 16 February 2021. Previous letters 
sent back to it had been marked as return to sender.
Ms D didnt agree. She said that Barclays Partner Finance hadnt acted with due diligence. 
Her address wasnt complete on the application and she says she returned two letters in 
November 2020 with a note saying this wasnt her loan. She said Barclays should have 
acted on this then as she was unsure if the letters were legitimate. The address for delivery 
of the goods should have been the same as the one on the loan agreement and this wasnt 
adhered to. This fraud could have been prevented and the impact is the time spent on 
resolving this including trips to the post office and a branch and making this complaint 
causing her considerable stress over quite a long period of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Ms D has been the victim of identity theft and I dont doubt that this has 
caused her stress and inconvenience. Ideally this loan should never have been allowed and 
I will be thinking about what Barclays Partner Finance did. I need to say that we dont have a 
role in saying what processes Barclays Partner Finance should follow. 
Ms D says that one line of her address was missed from the application, but I dont think that 
was significant or for example stopped post getting to her. Shes pointed out a part of the  
involved retailers website where it says that the billing address and delivery address for the 
item financed should be the same. I can see that the loan was signed on 15 November 2020 
and based on the statement sent to Ms D drawn on 28 November 2020. I dont have details 
of where the item was then sent but that would be down to the retailer at that time and not 
something I can hold Barclays Partner Finance responsible for. Ive not seen copies of what 
Ms D wrote on the letters she returned and cant say it should have done more then. When 
she explained her complaint in detail in February 2021 Barclays Partner Finance dealt with 
this relatively quickly.
Barclays Partner Finance has put Ms D now in the position she ought to have been in by 
cancelling the loan and removing any record of this in her name. I am not persuaded on 
balance that it acted unreasonably in agreeing the loan or in how it dealt with her initial 
contact. She hasnt had a financial loss and I think that the time she spent dealing with this 
matter and the stress she describes was Im afraid due to the actions of the fraudster.
I know she will be disappointed when I say that I wont be asking Barclays Partner Finance 
to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman