DRN-3251372
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Wesleyan Assurance Society mis-sold his business interruption 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C took out a business protection policy through Wesleyan in April 2019. Mr C claimed on 
his policy after his business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to 
the pandemic. The insurer turned down Mr Cs claim as it said the policy didnt provide cover 
for the circumstances of his claim. Mr C complained to Wesleyan as he thought the policy 
had been mis-sold. 
Wesleyan said it had established Mr Cs demands and needs and recommended a policy 
which was consistent with them. It said it wasnt able to go through all of the terms and 
conditions over the phone so sent the documents to Mr C to review. It said the policy clearly 
set out the terms and conditions of the cover. 
Unhappy with Wesleyans response, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He said 
Wesleyan had advised him that the policy would cover him for all business interruption and 
that that it also hadnt explained the details of the cover to him. Mr C said his previous policy 
would have covered his claim and he thought Wesleyan should have given him a more 
detailed explanation of the terms. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy had been mis-sold. 
Mr C asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Cs business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy, a firm
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy which is consistent
with those demands and needs. Wesleyan sold Mr Cs policy on an advised basis which 
means it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. It also had a
general duty to provide information that is clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive listened to a sales call between Wesleyan and Mr C. At the start of the call Mr C said he 
was calling to buy contents insurance. Wesleyans agent said they could go through a fact 
find over the phone to look for a package policy that would include cover such as business 
interruption insurance as well. The agent asked who provided Mr Cs current policy and said 
they would look for a competitive quote. They asked if there was anything other than the 
price that was important, Mr C said there wasnt. I havent heard anything in the call that 
indicated that either Mr C required a policy on exactly the same terms as his previous one or 
that this is what Wesleyan would offer. While Wesleyan didnt mention business interruption 
cover in detail, it also didnt say that the policy would cover closure for every eventuality.
I wouldnt expect Wesleyan to go through the policy term by term during the sale, but I would 
expect it to highlight anything significant or unusual. Given the nature of Mr Cs business, I 
do think some level of disease cover would have been useful for him and the policy did 
provide cover for a specified list of diseases. However, as I havent seen anything to indicate 
that Mr C let Wesleyan know that he had any specific requirements for business interruption 
and as the policy was sold in April 2019, before Covid-19 was known about, I wouldnt 
expect it to have specifically highlighted the terms in the policy which became relevant when 
he tried to claim. 
 
Im satisfied that Wesleyan clarified Mr Cs demands and needs and recommended a policy 
that was consistent with them. Wesleyan sent Mr C its recommendation which included a 
copy of the policy terms and conditions. Wesleyan also advised Mr C to check all of the 
documents to ensure the cover met his businesss needs. Im satisfied that Wesleyan 
provided information in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading and took reasonable 
steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. 
I appreciate Mr C feels that Wesleyan was negligent, but I dont think I can fairly conclude 
that the policy was mis-sold. 
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman