DRN-2205445
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain that Bank of Scotland plc failed to provide them with information 
about pending card transactions on their account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Q had a joint current account with Bank of Scotland. 
Mr Q says he received a text message from Bank of Scotland informing him the account was 
overdrawn by £44. He says he telephoned Bank of Scotland to enquire about this. It told him 
the account had gone overdrawn because a direct debit had been presented for payment.
Mr Q says he credited his account with £60. He was surprised when he received a further 
text message the next day to say that the direct debit hadnt been paid. He says Bank of 
Scotland told him the direct debit hadnt been paid because two debit card transactions had 
been paid out of his account. So, it said there wasnt enough money in the account to pay 
the direct debit.
Mr Q says Bank of Scotland shouldve told him about these debit card transactions when he 
telephoned it. He says he was in the process of moving home and he was very concerned 
that his mortgage offer would be withdrawn because of the unpaid direct debit. He 
complained to Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland investigated his complaint. It said it had no control over the date or time 
that debit card transactions would be debited from the account. The two debit card 
transactions had been taken from the account later on the same day as the direct debit had 
been presented. So, it didnt uphold his complaint. It offered to pay him £10 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr Q didnt agree with what Bank of Scotland said. He says he doesnt understand why a 
debit card transaction isnt taken from the account immediately. He says when he spoke to 
Bank of Scotland about the text message, it shouldve told him to think about debit card 
transactions hed done over the weekend. 
Mr Q says Bank of Scotlands staff wouldve had access to a list of his pending card 
transactions and shouldve told him what was on that list. He says if he had online banking, 
he wouldve had access to this list also. So, he thinks Bank of Scotland is treating customers 
who dont have online banking unfairly.
Mr and Mrs Q complained to our service. Our investigator looked into their complaint. He 
thought that Bank of Scotland hadnt made an error. He thought that its agent wouldnt have 
known about the pending debit card transactions when Mr Q spoke to it. He said the retailer 
chooses when to take the funds from the account. So, he wouldnt expect the banks staff to 
have to warn Mr and Mrs Q about this each time a payment was debited from their account. 
He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Q didnt agree. Mr Q said the bank staff could see pending card transactions and 
he reiterated how much stress hed been caused as a result of what happened. 
Because Mr and Mrs Q didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that after Mr Q received the text alert from Bank of Scotland he took. He put funds 
into the account. And, he telephoned Bank of Scotland. He says he believed, on the basis of 
what hed been told, hed done enough to keep his account in order. So, I can understand 
why he says he was surprised the next day to find out that the direct debit hadnt been paid. 
Bank of Scotland says that, because it holds his mobile telephone number, Mr Q was 
automatically enrolled for its text alert service. Ive looked at the wording of the text alert 
which was sent to Mr Q at around 09.10 hrs on 12 November 2019. It said
As you are on or over your limit please pay money in by 14.30 to cover any 
payments you may need to make today.
The alert didnt state how much Mr Q needed to pay into the account. And it didnt specify 
what payments he may need to cover.
Mr Q telephoned Bank of Scotland on 12 November 2019. The call log indicates the call took 
place at around 13.40 hrs. Ive listened to that telephone call. 
Mr Q said hed got the alert and had sorted his account. He enquired what transaction had 
put his account over. He was told about the direct debit transaction and he was told the 
balance on his account before that transaction was presented. He asked what date this 
direct debit was set up for. He was told it was set up for 12th of each month. He said he 
wasnt aware of this, but he could now budget for this in future months. He said he had no 
further questions.
During the call Mr Q didnt ask how much he needed to pay into the account. He said hed 
already sorted the account. Thats consistent with the timing of a credit of £60 which he 
made to his account at 13.38 hrs, just a few minutes before he phoned Bank of Scotland. 
So, the purpose of his call wasnt to ask Bank of Scotland about how much he needed to 
credit to his account or to enquire about pending transactions. In these circumstances, I 
wouldnt have expected Bank of Scotland to start talking about matters which it wasnt being 
asked about.
After the telephone call was made there were two debit card transactions which were 
presented for payment. These transactions had been authorised for payment over the 
previous weekend. Once authorised these payments were earmarked for payment which 
means they had to be paid. 
Card payments are presented for payment by the merchant and this can be several days 
after the date the payment was authorised. The date and time when debit card payments are 
presented for payment is not something Bank of Scotland has control over. I think Mr Q 
wouldve been aware of this since hed made debit card transactions on the account prior to 
this.After the card payments were debited to the account, despite the £60 credit earlier in the 
day, there were insufficient funds in the account at 14.30 hrs to make the direct debit 
payment. I can see that a further credit of £100 was made to the account at 16.35 hrs on 12 
November. But that was after the 14.30 hrs cut off time for payment of the direct debit. So, I 
dont think Bank of Scotland did anything wrong when it paid the card payments and 
returned the direct debit.
Ive also thought about what Mr Q has said about the information he thinks Bank of Scotland 
had access to and which it should have provided to him. 
It is the case that the debit card transactions wouldve shown as pending on Bank of 
Scotlands systems. That may have been a separate IT system to the one which the adviser 
was looking at when Mr Q phoned it. But I dont think that changes the position. As 
mentioned above Mr Q didnt ask any questions about pending transactions. And he didnt 
ask any questions about how much he needed to pay into his account to make sure the 
direct debit would be paid. He told Bank of Scotland hed sorted that matter. 
Mr Q says hes concerned that he wont be able to avoid the same thing happening again in 
the future. 
Bank of Scotland says Mr Q is registered for internet banking. Its not clear when he became 
registered for internet banking. But, the information about pending card transactions is 
available on internet banking. So, Mr Q can access this information in the future. And, I think 
he would also be provided with this information by telephone if he asks for it.
So, having considered everything here, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require 
Bank of Scotland to take any further action.  Its offered to pay £10, which has been 
declined. If Mr and Mrs Q want to pursue that offer with Bank of Scotland then they should 
contact it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman