DRN-3696643
The complaint
Mr R complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly 
granted him a catalogue shopping account he says he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2014 Mr R entered into an agreement with Shop Direct to have access to credit by 
way of a catalogue shopping account with an opening credit limit of £600. There followed a 
series of credit limit increases, beginning in December 2014 and ending in December 2015. 
The account went into default in June 2016 and was passed to a third party collection 
agency.
Mr R says that Shop Direct didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened the 
account. He says he was already struggling financially at the time.
Shop Direct has already refunded Mr R all the interest and charges he incurred as a result of 
his credit limit being increased from £600 to £700 and the further credit limit increases that 
followed. Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought the offer was fair. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this outcome and requested that his complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Before providing the credit, Shop Direct says it carried out a check using a credit 
reference agency, in addition to the information Mr R had provided in his application. Ive 
seen from the results of those checks that Mr Rs recent credit history didnt raise any 
particular concerns, with all accounts up to date and no current defaults, plus no other 
adverse account markers or court judgments against him. Whilst Mr R had has told us 
about several defaults hed previously had with other credit providers, the most recent 
prior to the account opening was around four years earlier so it would be reasonable to 
treat this as historic. And other defaults Mr R told us about were after the account had 
been opened and so are taken into consideration by the period for which Shop Direct has 
already paid compensation. 
Based on what Ive seen, I therefore wouldnt have expected Shop Direct not to have 
granted him an initial credit limit of £600. It is of course possible that Shop Directs checks 
at the time of the account opening werent as thorough or sufficient as they might have 
been. But even so, from what Ive seen, I dont think better enquiries would have caused 
Shop Direct to think the initial credit limit was unaffordable. I therefore dont think Shop 
Direct acted unfairly in opening this account. 
I see that our adjudicator asked Mr R to provide copies of his bank accounts from around 
the time the account was opened. Mr R has unfortunately not been able to obtain these 
from his bank. But based on the level of proportionate checks Ive seen Shop Direct 
carried out, a review of Mr Rs day-to-day financial situation isnt something I would 
necessarily have expected it to do in addition to those checks as well. 
It follows that I am not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Given that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has already paid appropriate 
compensation to Mr R, there is nothing more it needs to do. I therefore dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman