DRN-4127888
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr G bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2019. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations 
and/or breach of contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr G 
alleges that the supplier misled Mr G into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr G signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not 
be immediately self-funding in the way Mr G says he was led to believe. So, the investigator 
did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr G disagreed. He said (through his representatives) that the sale was conducted based on 
verbal representations and he should not be expected to check paperwork to ensure that 
verbal representations arent being contradicted in the paperwork 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr G could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr G and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano. And 
section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr G was provided with the sales documents and that he wouldve seen 
these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
next to the total estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel system. I think its clear 
that the cost of the system was £8,275. The finance type makes reference to Ikano and 
Mr Gs 120-month loan. 
Immediately next to this, Mr Gs first year benefit is set out as between £79.89 and £159.78. 
Normally the sales paperwork reflects the discussions consumers had with the sales advisor, 
so it looks like the sales advisor discussed both Mr Gs costs and estimated benefit with him. 
I think its apparent (without doing any calculations) that to repay a loan for £8,275 over 10 
years, Mr G would need at least £827.50 per year to cover the cost of just the credit element 
of the loan. And his maximum benefit of £159.78 falls significantly short of that. 
Separately, but on the same day, Mr G signed his credit agreement which shows his monthly 
payment was £99.08. Again, given the maximum benefit doesnt even cover two monthly 
payments, I think its clear that the system benefits wouldnt be sufficient to cover the cost of 
the loan. 
Ive thought about Mr Gs claim that he didnt (and shouldnt be expected to) check the 
paperwork to ensure the verbal representations he says the salesperson made were true. 
However, none of these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly 
visible. And Mr G has signed directly beneath this section  so, I think he wouldve, at the 
very least, seen this comparison when he signed the document (without needing to examine 
the paperwork). If Mr G had been told something different, on being asked to sign this 
document, I would have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen 
no evidence that he did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not 
contradict Mr Gs understanding, at that time. 
Overall, I think it would have been clear to him that the solar panels would not be self-
funding in the way he says he was told they would be. And I dont think its likely that he was 
led to believe the system would be self-funding, when the documents he signed, clearly 
display such a significant shortfall between the cost and the benefit. 
The document described above, in my view, clearly displays the expected first year benefit 
Mr G would receive against the cash price  which shows the solar panels would not be 
immediately self-funding. As mentioned above, Mr G then went on to take out finance to fund 
the purchase of the solar panel system, further increasing his cost, as he agreed to pay not 
only the cash price of the solar panels, but also interest on top of the amount borrowed. As it 
was clear the benefit provided by the system would not be sufficient to cover the cash price 
of the solar panels, I think he ought reasonably to have known that the benefit provided by 
the system, would also not be sufficient to fund the monthly finance payments which 
included finance charges on top of the cost of the solar panels. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Gs testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. I havent seen any evidence 
that Ikano paid any commission to the supplier and, considering that I havent found any 
misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship 
under section 140.
Other issues 
Mr G says he told the sales advisor that he couldnt afford credit. But Ikano says it carried 
out sufficient checks to assess his creditworthiness. We asked for more details and bank 
statements from around the time of sale to further assess Mr Gs claims, but Mr G was 
unable to provide this. It also looks like Mr G maintained his payments following the sale. So, 
I havent seen any evidence that the loan wasnt affordable when it was granted to him.  
Mr G also says that the sales advisor used pressure tactics to persuade him to agree to the 
sale. However, it looks like there were two weeks between Mr G agreeing to the purchase 
and the installation of the system. Mr G also had a cooling off period. If Mr G didnt want the 
system, I would have expected him to have cancelled within that period  and Ive seen no 
evidence that he tried to cancel. Pressure can also be subjective, and Mr G hasnt provided 
much detail as to what was said or done to pressure him specifically. So, I dont uphold his 
complaint on this basis. 
So, while Ive thought carefully about these concerns, I dont uphold his complaint for these 
reasons. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Mr G to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint. So, I dont think Ikano declining this claim was unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman