DRN-3042919
The complaint
 Ms Ps estate complain that withdrawals were made from her J.P. Morgan Europe Limited 
(trading as Post Office) account between June 2011 and November 2014 totalling 
approximately £44,000 that they say she didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision in June 2021 to explain why I thought Mr Ms complaint 
should not be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. This 
is an extract from my provisional decision: 
The nephew of Ms P initially bought this complaint to our service before Ms P passed away. 
It is now being considered on behalf of her estate. 
Ms Ps nephew told us that his sister, Ms Ps niece, had been making withdrawals from Ms 
Ps account for over three years without her permission. He said he discovered the 
transactions when Ms P was moved to a care home and he reviewed her account. All but 5 
of the withdrawals were for £600. The table below summarises the disputed transactions.
Year Number of withdrawals Total withdrawn
March 2010  alleged last 
genuine transaction made 
by Ms P 1 £600
June 2011 onwards 27 £15,900
2012 9 £5,300
2013 19 £10,800
2014 21 £12,300
Having noticed this and discussed it with his aunt before her passing, Ms Ps nephew said: 
Ms P didnt allow her niece to make these withdrawals, nor did she ever receive any 
of the money from her niece; 
he didnt know how his sister got the card or PIN; 
the withdrawals took place at a Post Office that was around 2 hours away from Ms 
Ps address but close to her nieces home address;  
he believed J.P. Morgan should have realised it wasnt Ms P completing the 
transactions and intervened. By way of example, he pointed to a 19 day period in 
2011 where 10 withdrawals were made totaling £7,800; and that between June and 
December 2011 27 cash withdrawals were made that totaled approximately 
£16,000;
his aunt had another account that covered her direct debits and day to day expenses 
 which was why this wasnt noticed sooner;
at the time Ms P was over 80 and not in the best of health; and
the matter had not been reported to the police as Ms P didnt want to do this, and he 
respected her wishes. 
Ms Ps niece denied the allegations that she had stolen money from her aunt. She agreed 
that she had withdrawn the cash, but said that she had done so at the request of Ms P. She 
said that her aunt had sent her card to her in the post with a letter, though she no longer had 
the letter due to the passage of time. Ms Ps niece gave a variety of explanations on the 
matter of what happened to the money once she had withdrawn it  some of which were 
contradictory. These included that she posted the sums to her aunt; that she didnt ever 
directly handle the cash as she got the Post Office to send it to Ms Ps bank account held 
with another business (there is no corroborative evidence for this); that she was permitted by 
Ms P to keep some to treat herself with; and that it was used to pay for various things for Ms 
P including stair lifts, trips to stay with relatives, plumbing, and Christmas monies over the 
years for relatives. 
J.P Morgan reviewed the complaint and it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that 
it was most likely Ms P who completed the transactions, or that she had allowed someone to 
do so on her behalf. This was because the transactions were made using Ms Ps card and 
PIN. It also said that shed been sent statements throughout this time, so it would have 
expected her to notice any suspicious transactions. It also raised that according to the 
relevant regulations, a service user would only be entitled to redress should they bring their 
complaint within 13 months  and that Ms Ps complaint was brought to them over 4 years 
after the disputed transactions had ended. 
Ms P wasnt happy with this answer, so they complained to our service. Our investigator 
reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. They felt it was most likely that 
Ms P consented to these transactions, even if she didnt physically make them herself. He 
said this was because: 
The disputed transactions were made using Ms Ps genuine card and PIN, but 
theres no convincing explanation for how a third party could have known Ms Ps PIN 
but for her giving it to them. They felt it seemed unlikely that Ms Ps niece would have 
taken note of it, waited for over a year, and then started making unauthorised 
transactions on Ms Ps account. 
The disputed transactions took place over a number of years. They felt it seemed 
unlikely that her niece would have been able to either keep the card throughout this 
time, or take and replace it on so many occasions without Ms P becoming aware of 
what she was doing. 
They said Ms P was also sent statements throughout the period of time the disputed 
transactions were taking place. And it seemed that she did receive these statements 
as Ms Ps nephew explained he discovered the disputed transactions from reviewing 
these statements. 
Our investigator felt it also seemed unlikely that Ms P wouldnt have noticed these 
transactions during this time and reported them herself. 
They accepted that for a period in 2014 Ms P was in hospital so couldnt have 
physically made the withdrawals herself. But they explained that Ms P didnt have to 
make the withdrawals personally in order to be liable for them under the relevant 
rules. She could still be held responsible for them if she authorised the use of her 
card. 
They also noted that Ms P hadnt reported the matter to the police, and felt this was 
strange given the scale of the disputed transactions. 
Ms Ps estate remain unhappy with this answer. Ms Ps nephew felt that it was clear these 
were fraudulent transactions and that J.P. Morgan should have recognised this. So, it has 
come to me to decide. In order to reach a decision on this case, I asked for further information from Ms Ps nephew 
and from J.P. Morgan. Ms Ps nephew got Ms Ps solicitor to share some attendance notes 
from meetings they had with her. The notes detail a meeting which took place in December 
2018. This meeting in part discussed actions to be taken after Ms P and her nephew had 
discovered the disputed transactions. The notes reflect that Ms P was upset about what had 
happened, and shocked that her niece had done this. She had relied on her niece and 
nephew for help with financial matters since she was in a nursing home, but this would 
change to only her nephew after what had happened. It is clear from the notes that Ms P 
clearly felt affection for her niece based on a strong connection from when her niece was 
younger, and was shocked to discover what had happened. 
J.P. Morgan also provided further information on the Post Office card account  the product 
Ms P had. It explained this is a simple method of distributing pension or benefit payments 
generally to those without other banking facilities  so they were designed with vulnerable 
consumers in mind. The facility doesnt offer features such as mobile or online banking, 
direct debits or in-store/online transactions. It can only be used to withdraw cash at a Post 
Office counter or a Post Office branded ATM. 
My provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am minded to reach a 
different conclusion to the one already set out by our investigator. Ill explain why. 
When it comes to unauthorised transactions the relevant regulations and J.P. Morgans 
terms and conditions say that any unauthorised transactions should be reported without 
undue delay, and no later than 13 months after the transaction. J.P. Morgan have suggested 
that this means that a refund would not be due in this case due to the transactions being 
reported more than 13 months after they took place. I have considered this argument, and 
based on my current thinking I am unlikely to agree with it in my final decision. As I will go on 
to explain, I do think that it is likely that these transactions could be considered authorised  
so my suggested redress is not based on those regulations. My current thinking is that J.P. 
Morgan failed in its duty to protect their customer, Ms P, from fraud  and that is the reason I 
am considering requiring them to make a partial refund here. So, if nothing changes, I wont 
find it reasonable to say that the delay in reporting these transactions should prevent any 
refund.
So, I will move on to considering my thoughts on authorisation. Generally, J.P. Morgan can 
hold Ms As estate liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that it is more 
likely than not that she authorised these payments or gave someone else consent to make 
them on her behalf. Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Ms Ps genuine 
card and PIN were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to 
this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable J.P. Morgan to hold her liable. So, I 
also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Ms 
P consented to the withdrawals being made.
Having done so, I think it is most likely that Ms P did consent to withdrawals being made, I 
say this because: Ive considered how Ms Ps niece could have obtained the card and PIN. I think its 
clear from the solicitors meeting notes that Ms Ps niece had abused her trust, and 
that she had not meant for her to make all of these transactions. I agree that I would 
expect most people to notice if their card was missing, or have noticed their 
transactions on their account due to the length of time the disputed transactions were 
made over. But I think that it is reasonable to conclude that Ms P didnt notice the 
transactions or the absence of her card due to the fact she didnt use this account for 
her everyday spending. I also feel that her age, vulnerability and trust in her niece 
also fed into the fact she didnt notice what was happening on her account.
Ms Ps nieces testimony is that her aunt allowed her to use the card and presumably 
therefore that she gave her the PIN. There were clear holes and inconsistencies in 
her story, and it was at odds with what Ms P and her nephew said happened. For 
example, she says that she didnt handle the money and simply put it straight into 
another account of her aunts  but the evidence doesnt support this version of 
events. She also then said she did handle the money as she kept some, sent some 
to her aunt and paid for things for her aunt. 
But Ms Ps estate dont have a clear answer about how Ms Ps niece obtained the 
card and PIN either. The last genuine transaction was over a year before the 
disputed transactions so it seems unlikely that Ms Ps niece was able to see her 
enter the PIN, as it would seem strange that if she had she would wait over a year to 
use the card and PIN. 
So considering everything, I think it is most likely that Ms P did allow her niece to use 
the card and PIN at some point, at least for the initial transaction, and that she didnt 
check that she had the card in her possession after this. 
The relevant regulations say that where this is the case, payments can be considered 
authorised by Ms P. This is because by informally asking someone to take cash out on your 
behalf, you are then bound by the acts of the third party. If Ms P had enabled her niece to 
appear as if she had her authority to make payment transactions, those transactions are 
considered authorised even where Ms P didnt ask her niece to make those payments, or 
didnt know that she had. So, as I am minded to say it is most likely that Ms P gave her niece 
her card and PIN for at least the first transaction, it follows that the disputed transactions can 
be considered authorised even though it seems clear Ms P didnt mean for her niece to take 
so much money from her account. 
Whilst Ms P was unaware of the transactions, under the Payment Regulations 2009 and the 
terms and conditions of the account, as the payments can be considered authorised Ms Ps 
estate is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good practice at the time, I think J.P. Morgan did 
have an obligation to be on the lookout for potential fraud or financial harm. I think it would 
be reasonable to expect them to have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions of other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average consumer. 
In this case, I need to decide whether J.P. Morgan acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Ms P when the transactions were made or whether it could and should have done more 
before processing all of them. That is a question of fact and degree depending on the 
circumstances of each individual case.J.P Morgans terms and conditions say:
3.2 If we suspect that your card has been lost or stolen or that a card or card number is 
liable to misuse, we will temporarily suspend your use of the card. We will also suspend or 
stop use of your card due to legal obligations we have to meet. We will notify you in advance 
using the most recent address you gave us or if we are unable to give you advance notice, 
immediately after we suspend use of your card explaining the reasons why your card was 
suspended or stopped, except where doing so would compromise reasonable security 
measures or otherwise be unlawful. We will lift the suspension on your card or issue you with 
a replacement card as soon as practicable after the reasons for stopping its use cease to 
exist.
So J.P. Morgan can block cards in certain circumstances and contact their consumers, 
including to prevent fraud. Taking all of this into account, in this case, I need to consider 
whether J.P. Morgan acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms P when her account 
usage increased from 2011 onwards.
Considerations:
I consider that as a matter of good practice, J.P. Morgan should have been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. Ive looked at the activity that 
took place on Ms Ps account during the disputed transactions and feel that these 
payments were unusual and out of character for this account. 
I also think that J.P. Morgan should have been on notice that Ms P was vulnerable. 
At the time she was over 80 which means the bank should have been on notice that 
Ms P was at increased risk of fraud or financial crime. 
The last transaction before those complained about was a single £600 withdrawal in 
March 2010  over a year prior to the first complained about in June 2011. It is clear 
from reviewing the account and testimony from Ms P and her estate that this was not 
her sole account and that she didnt use it for her every day spending. 
In June 2011, the disputed transactions began. There were then frequent, repeated 
cash withdrawals which escalated quickly. Ive summarised those made in the first 
month in the table below.  
Date Withdrawal 
26.06.2011 £600
30.06.2011 £600
01.07.2011 £600
04.07.2011 £600
07.07.2011 £600
08.07.2011 £600
09.07.2011 £600
11.07.2011 £600
12.07.2011 £600
13.07.2011 £600
14.07.2011 £600
15.07.2011 £600
16.07.2011 £600
I think its clear that the spending was unusual and out of character for Ms Ps 
account. Due to the unusual nature of her payments the relevant law, regulations and 
good industry practice, as well as the account terms and conditions, required J.P. 
Morgan to contact Ms P about the transactions on her account. I do accept it can be difficult to draw a proportionate line between preventing genuine 
transactions and preventing fraud occurring on an account, but I think by the 9 June 
2011 the bank should have been on notice that the activity on the account was 
unusual. I say this because having had no activity on the account for over a year, 
there were seven transactions in under two weeks totalling £4,200  including daily 
maximum withdrawals for three days in a row.  
Having reviewed the notes of the meeting Ms P had with her solicitor, it is clear that 
she was unaware these transactions were taking place and that she was incredibly 
upset when she found out that she had been taken advantage of by her niece. So, I 
think if J.P. Morgan had contacted her it would have made her aware what was 
taking place on her account and the appropriate steps could have been taken to 
block and replace the card, and ensure her niece did not have access to the new 
card and PIN. This would have likely prevented this substantial loss on her account. 
So based on the information I have at the moment, if nothing changes I will be asking J.P. 
Morgan to refund all the disputed transactions which took place on and after the 9 June 
2011. Ive considered whether interest should be paid for the deprivation of these funds from 
Ms P  but given that she didnt notice their absence until her nephew discovered them in 
2014 and the fact she had not been frequently using the account  I think it is fair to say the 
funds were likely to have remained in her account. So, I am minded to say that J.P. Morgan 
wont need to pay interest on the refunded amount. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons explained above I am minded to say that J.P. Morgan should refund the 
disputed transactions that took place between 9 July 2011 and 27 November 2014.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ps estate responded to say that they were happy with the provisional decision. They 
said again that they could not understand how this fraud was never flagged up at the time 
due to the suspicious activity on the account. They said they hoped lessons were learned to 
prevent this happening to other vulnerable account holders in the future. 
J.P. Morgan responded to my provisional decision and said that they did not challenge the 
overall conclusion, but had concerns about refunding the transactions. Their concerns are as 
follows: 
Whilst the year before Ms P had only withdrawn £600 from her account, she had 
used it more in the preceding five years (with an average of £4,500 per annum being 
withdrawn) and in the four years following the fraud (with an average of £8,560 per 
annum being withdrawn)  none of which has been disputed. They felt this showed 
she relied on the account for some element of her daily living costs. When 
considering this and the fact that she received regular statements, they found it 
strange that she hadnt noticed that large sums of money were being withdrawn from 
her account whilst she received nothing from her niece;
They said that it was difficult to see how Ms P went for three and a half years without 
noticing the transactions whilst not receiving any money from her niece  and felt it 
was more likely that she had been receiving some funds from her niece. So they felt 
it would be fair to refund the disputed transactions, minus the average spend in the 
preceding years which they calculated to be around £13,475. 
They were also concerned that Ms Ps niece may be a beneficiary on her will. They 
felt it would be entirely inappropriate to refund the full value of the disputed transactions and allow the perpetrator of an alleged fraud to benefit from it. So they 
felt it was material to any refund decision to determine the extent to which the niece 
may be a beneficiary of the estate. 
Ive carefully considered what J.P. Morgan have said, but I am not persuaded to change the 
outcome I explained in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
When the complaint came to us and Ms P was still alive the testimony from her (via her 
nephew) was that she hadnt asked her niece to make transactions on her behalf, nor had 
she allowed her to take the money from the account. I appreciate that I have found it most 
likely that she initially did give her card and PIN to her niece, but I am still of the opinion that 
she didnt realise her niece still had the card in order to complete the further transactions. I 
think the fact she didnt notice that her niece was doing this corroborates the idea that she 
wasnt using this account for some element of her daily living costs. If she had no need to 
use her account and believed she still had her card, then she would have no reason to 
review her statements. Whereas if she had required the funds in the J.P. Morgan account for 
daily living and had known her niece had the card and was making withdrawals, I would 
have expected her to review statements to keep track of her finances. So, I think it is more 
likely than not that Ms Ps testimony that she didnt allow her niece to transact on her behalf 
is broadly correct  though it is likely she forgot she had allowed an initial transaction. 
Further to this, whilst I appreciate that Ms P did use her account far more prior to 2010 and 
in the years after the disputed transactions, the fact that she did only withdraw £600 in 2010 
along with the testimony of Ms P and her nephew means I find it highly plausible that she 
didnt rely on this account for her daily living costs during the period of the disputed 
transactions. So, I am satisfied that the redress I suggested in my provisional decision 
remains fair and reasonable in this case. 
Ive also considered J.P. Morgans concern that Ms Ps niece may be a beneficiary on her 
will. I, along with Ms Ps estate, certainly agree that it would not be at all favourable for her 
niece to further profit from this refund. It is my understanding that the estate will do all that is 
within their legal power to prevent this. But, when considering my role and remit, I can only 
consider what refund is due from J.P. Morgan to the estate of Ms P  and I cant dictate what 
happens to the money next. Ms Ps passing should not alter J.P. Morgans liability for this 
loss. Had Ms P not passed away, she may still have had her niece on her will and it is 
unlikely this would have been raised  and I cannot consider the outcome differently simply 
due to the unfortunate passing of Ms P. So whilst Ms Ps niece may have appeared on the 
will  this doesnt change my finding that it is fair and reasonable for J.P. Morgan to refund 
the disputed transactions that occurred between 9 July 2011 and 27 November 2014. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that J.P. Morgan must refund the 
disputed transactions that took place between 9 July 2011 and 27 November 2017.Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman