DRN-2716152
The complaint
Miss F has complained that V5 Loans Limited (V5 or the lender) was irresponsible to 
have agreed credit for her. 
What happened
V5 provided Miss F with a loan of £400 in October 2016, through an intermediary. The total 
amount of £1,872, including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 104 weekly 
instalments of £18.
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Miss F provided 
V5 with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if she didnt make her loan repayments V5 
could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. 
I understand Miss F repaid her loan in October 2018. 
Miss F said that V5 was irresponsible to have agreed credit for her because at the time she 
was having problems managing her money and had difficulty maintaining her priority bills, 
including rent, council tax and utilities. She says that V5 should have known this from the 
negative information on her credit file and her use of short term loans. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Fs complaint and didnt recommend that it be 
upheld because, although they found the lender ought to have done more before lending to 
her, further checks wouldnt have shown the loan to be unaffordable. 
Miss F didnt accept this recommendation and asked for her complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
The facts of the case are known to both parties and are not in dispute, so I wont go into 
what happened in detail but will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Having 
considered everything carefully, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. I appreciate that this 
will be disappointing for her and I hope my explanation makes it clear how and why Ive 
come to this conclusion.
Before agreeing credit for Miss F, V5 needed to check that she could afford to meet her 
repayments sustainably, in other words out of her usual means without having to borrow 
further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The 
checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and Miss Fs circumstances, 
and V5 needed to take proper account of the information it gathered. 
The regulations in place at the time stated that a lender must not accept an application for 
credit where it suspects the consumer has not been truthful, and it needs to take steps to 
ensure that the information it relies on is complete and correct. Ultimately, V5 needed to 
treat Miss F fairly and take full account of her interests when making its lending decision.
V5 provided this Service with the information it relied on which included Miss Fs application 
form and bank statements covering the period from 11 August to 2 September 2016. Miss F 
declared a monthly income of £2,500 and expenses of £1,190, giving her a disposable 
income of over £1,300. Shed said her expenses included £10 a month repaying existing 
debt. 
I think its unlikely that Miss F had the level of disposable income shed declared as she was 
applying for an expensive loan for a third that amount. Furthermore, V5 could see from her 
bank statements that while Miss Fs income and benefits came to approximately the amount 
shed said, it seems she was paying more on repaying debt than the £10 shed declared.
Considering that Miss F would need to meet her repayments over the course of two years, 
its debateable for me whether V5 did enough here to assess the risk to her of not being able 
to sustainably meet these. On balance, I think it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate of the lender to have verified Miss Fs expenses, including her existing level of 
debt. 
Miss F has provided a recent copy of her credit file and I can see from this that shed taken 
out two credit cards in 2016, the most recent from the month before, and shed defaulted on 
a £700 loan in February 2015. Her credit file also shows that in later years she had difficulty 
repaying further credit card debt and at least six accounts are now in default. I appreciate 
that a recent report might not show all of the debts Miss F had at that time, however, I cant 
conclude from the information Ive seen that Miss Fs credit history alone would have caused 
V5 such concern that it would have declined to lend to her. 
Miss F has also provided more of her bank statements. I can see that her finances were 
pressured at times with two returned direct debit payments in early August, the day before a 
regular deposit came in. However, I can also see utility and council payments being made 
and no identifiable short term lending payments. Altogether, I cant say that the information 
Ive seen indicates that Miss F was in financial difficulty at that time such that further credit 
would have been unsustainable. 
I dont doubt that Miss F has had a difficult time with her finances and, as mentioned, she 
clearly struggled to make inroads into her increasing levels of debt in the years following this 
loan. However, I dont think further checks would or should have led V5 to decline her 
application for credit. So I dont find it lent irresponsibly on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint about V5 Loans Limited 
and so dont require it to pay compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman