DRN-1782256
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Go Car Credit 
Limited (GCCL) has not been of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then GCCL, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr R. The car here 
was around four years old and had already completed about 75,000 miles. So, I think its 
reasonable to suggest it would be showing some signs of wear and tear.
I think the clutch would be considered an item that would wear with use and I think its fair to 
say that it would not be surprising for a clutch to fail after about 79,000 miles.
That may mean, as was the case here, that Mr Rs warranty would cover a replacement. But 
I dont think it suggests the car was faulty at the point it was supplied to Mr R.  
But, it wouldnt be fair for the business to supply a car to Mr R that was already experiencing 
clutch failure. So, Ive considered Mr Rs suggestion that he reported the issue in the first few 
days.
Whilst Mr R clearly reported an issue with the clutch it is clear the business could find no 
fault with it. I think its likely the cost of a replacement would have been covered by the 
warranty at that point and the business would have been likely to have benefitted from being 
able to replace it. So, there would seem little sense in them reporting that they could find no 
fault with the clutch if there was a problem.
Mr R was able to drive a further 4,000 miles in the car before the clutch was replaced and I 
dont think that would have been likely had the clutch been failing at the point the car was 
supplied to him.
So, Im not persuaded to tell GCCL to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman