DRN-2819038
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (trading as More Th>n) declined to 
renew his motor insurance policy after he made a number of non-fault claims. 
What happened
In October 2020, Mr S was contacted by his motor insurers  More Th>n  who said that it 
would be unable to offer him a renewal of his policy. It said that Mr S no longer met its 
eligibility criteria due to the amount of claims hed made. 
Mr S felt this was unfair because he wasnt at fault for any of the accidents hed claimed for. 
So he didnt think he should be penalised for something that was out of his control. Since 
More Th>ns decision not to offer insurance, Mr S has struggled to find insurance elsewhere, 
and the quotes hes received are substantial. Hes brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He reviewed More Th>ns underwriting 
guidelines for offering insurance which showed that it didnt offer policies to customers whod 
made as many claims as Mr S had. As the guidelines had been applied correctly, our 
investigator didnt think More Th>n had done anything wrong.
As Mr S didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
An insurer is entitled to decide which risks it wants to cover and which it doesnt, along with 
what information it takes into account in making those decisions. These criteria is set out in 
an insurers underwriting guidelines and it isnt something our service would usually involve 
itself in. But we can ensure that the criteria are applied fairly and consistently to all 
customers, and that Mr S hasnt been treated differently to any other customer in the same 
circumstances. 
Ive been provided with More Th>ns underwriting guidelines. And whilst I cant share this 
with Mr S, because its commercially sensitive, I can assure him that Ive thought carefully 
about how theyve been applied. 
When Mr S policy renewed with More Th>n in 2019, hed had four claims within the last five 
years. Looking at the underwriting guidelines, Mr S met the criteria at that time and I 
understand that he was offered a renewal. But by the following year, hed had a further two 
claims. As this was above the maximum number of claims More Th>n was prepared to 
accept in its underwriting guidelines, it was unable to offer Mr S a renewal.
Mr S feels that because his claims were recorded as non-fault, he shouldnt be penalised 
for the amount hed had. But More Th>ns underwriting guidelines dont differentiate between 
fault and non-fault claims once the total has exceeded a certain amount. And as Ive said 
above, its More Th>ns decision what risks its prepared to accept and what information it 
takes into account.  
Im satisfied More Th>n has applied its underwriting guidelines fairly and consistently to 
Mr S circumstances, and he hasnt been treated differently. And whilst I sympathise with the 
situation this leaves him in, I cant fairly ask More Th>n to take on a risk that it isnt prepared 
to accept. 
I understand Mr S is struggling to find insurance elsewhere. But I cant see that this is 
because of anything More Th>n has done. I say this because Mr S will be subjected to a 
higher premium due to the amount of claims hes made, and that isnt something More Th>n 
is responsible for. 
Ive asked More Th>n whether Mr S needs to declare that hes been refused insurance or 
had a policy cancelled. But its confirmed that he doesnt. This is because the only reason 
More Th>n has been unable to offer a policy renewal is because Mr S no longer meets its 
underwriting guidelines. Had Mr S met the criteria, he wouldve been offered a renewal.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman