DRN-2673950
The complaint
Mr O complains that a business which ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) is now responsible for 
gave him unsuitable advice in 1993 to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) into 
a Personal Pension.
What happened
Mr O was advised by ReAssure to transfer his OPS benefits into a Personal Pension with it 
in 1993.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up an 
industrywide review of certain types of advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 30 
June 1994. It was generally known as the "Pension Review". It aimed to address concerns 
about the possible widespread mis-selling of Personal Pension Plans between these dates. 
Where mis-selling was identified, the regulator set out the method and assumptions that 
firms had to use to determine the level of any redress due. 
The review was intended to be a one-off exercise to put right any damage caused by poor 
advice. Where compensation was offered, it was calculated based on the methodology and 
assumptions about what would happen between the review and retirement age. The 
assumptions and methodology were set by the regulator and businesses were required to 
follow them.
ReAssure carried out a Pension Review for Mr O in 1999, which it said was carried out in 
line with the guidelines set by the regulator. The review concluded that Mr O had suffered a 
loss due to the advice to transfer out of his OPS. It offered Mr O just under £8,000 to put 
things right and he accepted this in full and final settlement some months later.
More recently Mr O enquired with ReAssure about whether it could compare the benefits he 
had now in the Personal Pension to what he wouldve had in the OPS. ReAssure responded 
to say an exact comparison wasnt possible but it was clear there was a very large shortfall 
compared to the OPS.
Following this, Mr O complained that he should be put back in the position he wouldve been 
in had he remained in the OPS. But ReAssure responded to say that this transfer had 
already been considered and it wouldnt look at it again.
Our investigator looked into matters but he agreed that ReAssure didnt need to do anything 
further to put things right. However, Mr O feels that as the loss is so extreme, his case 
should be seen as an exception.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding Mr Os complaint, I know this will be disappointing for 
him but Ill explain why.
The essence of Mr Os complaint is that he was given bad advice by ReAssure and he will 
be worse off, for having left his OPS. However, this has already been considered under the 
Pension Review. Mr O accepted this in full and final settlement of any claim against the 
business. And this is how the regulator directed businesses to look at mis-selling under the 
Pension Review. 
ReAssure accepted in 1999 that the advice Mr O received may have been unsuitable and so 
calculated whether a loss had occurred. The intention was that the Pension Review would 
compensate Mr O for the losses he would later experience when he came to retire. The 
regulator provided assumptions for firms to use when carrying out the loss calculations. 
These assumptions attempted to predict future loss by determining things like future 
investment returns. 
At the time most pension providers got specialist agencies to do much of the reviews. And 
businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to internal and external quality checks by 
the regulator. So, Im satisfied that the review was likely carried out correctly.
Unfortunately, the assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations havent in hindsight 
turned out as expected. Investment returns were much lower than predicted and annuity 
rates have fallen. This has meant many people have ended up with a shortfall in their 
Personal Pensions compared to what they wouldve got within the OPS.
 
As the investigator explained, the Pension Review was designed to be a one-off process 
which was based on what the regulator at the time considered to be a fair methodology, 
using reasonable assumptions for future growth rates. Its unfortunate that the expected 
growth rates havent come to realisation, and I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr Os 
position here. But this isnt a reason to undertake the Pension Review once again. It was 
designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a business such as ReAssure was able to 
provide redress for instances of mis-selling, but also so that it knew that it wouldnt have 
additional unknown liabilities in the future. This was important for the stability of the industry 
and consumer confidence in financial services more generally. But it was also designed to 
reassure consumers such as Mr O that the error had been recognised and addressed at that 
point in time  as Ive said above, using what were considered to be reasonable 
assumptions - without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
I understand why Mr O feels so aggrieved by the situation. Even with the redress paid he 
has ended up in a much worse position due to the advice he received. But this is an issue 
with the review process set out by the regulator  which at the time was considered fair. 
Unfortunately it has meant in a lot of cases customers will still receive much less from their 
Personal Pensions than they wouldve done from the OPS. But the businesses who carried 
out the reviews did so as required at the time and there is no requirement for them to 
continue to re-review the loss calculations.
I am sorry to hear of the position Mr O finds himself in because of the advice he received to 
transfer his OPS. But as the transfer has been reviewed as it was required to be by the 
regulator at the time  which I think represented a fair and reasonable resolution to the issue 
then  I wont be asking ReAssure to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman