DRN-3068228
The complaint
Mrs Y is unhappy with Shawbrook Bank Limiteds response to her complaint, following its 
refusal to pay her claim against it for some mis-sold solar panels under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mrs Y was contacted by a company, Ill refer to as P, that supplied and installed solar panel 
systems. Following a meeting, Mrs Y agreed to enter into a contract with P for it to supply 
and install a solar panel system at her home. To fund this, Mrs Y also agreed to enter into a 
15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mrs Y made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA through her representative. The 
representative said that P had told Mrs Y that the solar panels would be self-funded and 
that the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) 
income. But that hasnt happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments have been much 
higher than the income.
In its final response letter to this complaint, Shawbrook said that it didnt think the benefits of 
the solar panels had been misrepresented to Mrs Y. But it did make an offer to reimburse 
her for around £700 in lost FIT, export revenue and electricity savings during a period where 
the panels werent performing at the expected level. Unhappy with this response, Mrs Y 
referred her complaint to our service.
During our investigation, Shawbrook made an offer to resolve the complaint. Shawbrook 
offered to calculate the potential savings and income to Mrs Y over the term of the loan. It 
then said it would restructure the loan so that she didnt pay any more than this over the 15-
year term of the loan. It also offered to pay Mrs Y £200 to recognise the trouble and upset 
caused.
Shawbrook gave Mrs Y four options as to how shed like her loan restructured, although the 
last two would not be appropriate in her circumstances, which Ill explain below:
(a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new, lower, monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
(c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs Y and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
(d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs Y and she pays a new, lower monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
Shawbrook explained that, due to how the loan was restructured, if all the overpayments 
were returned, as described in options (c) and (d) above, the overall loan balance would 
increase. So, it proposed that the overpayment be used to ensure the outstanding balance, 
and therefore the amount that Mrs Y had to pay, wouldnt increase. This would be financially 
more beneficial to her.
Our investigator felt that the offer amounted to fair compensation. Mrs Y, through her 
representative, didnt. In summary, the representative said that Mrs Y wanted to receive an 
offer with a choice that all her overpayments were given back, even if that meant the loan 
balance increased. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Shawbrook, nor Mrs Y, dispute that the benefits of the solar panel system were 
misrepresented. And Ive also noted that neither party disagrees with the proposed redress 
to put things right. So, the only remaining question for consideration is whether Mrs Y should 
be allowed to receive the full refund of her overpayments with her loan balance increasing. 
Shawbrook has explained that when it has restructured the loan to ensure that the total 
amount payable over the term matches the expected benefits, if it were to refund all 
overpayments made, this would cause the outstanding loan balance to be higher than it 
currently is.
My understanding is that this is because, under the original loan terms, the monthly 
payments Mrs Y made were mostly paying off the interest that was accruing, as opposed to 
reducing the outstanding capital for the earlier period of the loan. This means that when 
Shawbrook has restructured the loan, if it were to return all the overpayments made, the 
outstanding loan balance would increase significantly.
Shawbrook has said it doesnt think its appropriate to do this as it would, in effect, increase 
the debt that Mrs Y still needs to pay. The representative hasnt said why Mrs Y should be 
given this option, other than that she should be given the choice.
Ive carefully considered the views put forward by the parties. Having done so, I dont think it 
would be fair compensation for Mrs Ys outstanding loan balance to be increased beyond 
what it currently is.
I say this for broadly the same reasons that have already been given by Shawbrook. If all the 
overpayments were returned, this would increase the overall amount owed and so increase 
the level of debt that Mrs Y is in. And I dont think that would give a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint for either party. Mrs Y would owe more, and this would take much 
longer for her to pay off. 
So, whilst Im satisfied that the four options discussed above are fair, in Mrs Ys case, 
options c) and d) will not result in a repayment to Mrs Y. The effect is to reduce what would 
otherwise be a restructured loan of around £8,000 to one of just over £5,200.
In terms of how Shawbrooks actions have affected Mrs Y, Im satisfied that there was 
enough information available at the time that she first contacted Shawbrook that means that 
her claim should have been upheld. The fact that this didnt happen undoubtedly caused her 
trouble and upset. So, I agree that the offer of £200 compensation that Shawbrook has 
made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case for how its actions will have 
affected Mrs Y. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that Mrs Ys complaint should be upheld. Shawbrook has made an offer 
to settle this complaint and I consider that this amounts to fair compensation. I require that 
Shawbrook Bank Limited must:
allow Mrs Y to keep the solar panels;estimate the potential savings and income to Mrs Y from the panels over the 15-year 
term of the loan and rework it as it has suggested, so she pays no more than this. 
Where possible, it should use Mrs Ys electricity bills and FIT statements to do this, 
noting in particular that the panels werent performing at the expected output level for 
a period after they were fitted. That performance deficit should be considered in the 
calculations;
add 8% simple interest* a year to any overpayment made from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement;
allow Mrs Y to decide how shed like her overpayments to be used, using options a) 
and b) described above; and
pay Mrs Y £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
income tax off that interest, it should tell Mrs Y how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs Y a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman