DRN-3288065
The complaint
Mr T complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited mishandled his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to One Call, I include employees and others insofar as I hold One Call 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
One Call acted as an intermediary between Mr T and an insurance company.
For the year from December 2020, Mr T paid £208.52 to insure his old car (a hatchback 
made in about 2003). He was the policyholder. The policy also covered a named driver.
In May 2021, Mr T intended to scrap his old car and get a newer one (made in about 2009).
After he tried to put the new car on the policy, One Call told Mr T he couldnt. When he 
asked about cancelling, One Call said its charges would mean he wouldnt get any refund. 
Mr T complained to One Call about that. By a final response dated early July 2021, One Call 
turned down the complaint, but offered to waive its fee for cancellation.
Mr T brought his complaint to us without delay. He told us that hed got a new policy from 
another provider for a year from 30 June 2021 at a cost of £291.00.
At first our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that One Call hadnt explained why Mr T had been unable to change the vehicle on 
the policy. The investigator recommended that One Call should pay Mr T £50,00 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused as a result.
But, after further information from One Call, the investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. The investigator thought that One Cal had given Mr T sufficient 
explanation that he didnt meet the insurance companys criteria.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
One Call shouldve mentioned before that no changes could be made.
One Call waived the admin fee so he could get a refund of about £36.00. He didnt 
accept that because he wanted to pursue his complaint.
He wants to understand the criteria and how to meet them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said, One Call was acting as an intermediary. The insurance company, rather than 
One Call, set the criteria for who and what it would insure. I would expect the insurance 
company to regard its criteria as confidential.
I accept that One Call would only have access to a system that would either quote a 
premium or decline to quote. I dont consider that One Call ought to have known, or couldve 
told Mr T, at an earlier stage that he wouldnt be able to make the change he was going to 
want.
From a webchat on 24 May 2021, I see that One Call said that Mr T didnt meet the criteria 
set by the underwriter of the policy. Im satisfied that this was a sufficient explanation. I 
wouldnt expect One Call to ask the insurer to explain or justify its criteria. And I wouldnt 
expect One Call to give Mr T details of the insurers criteria.
One Calls final response included the following:
I cannot conclude we have acted in error, however as a gesture of goodwill I have 
authorised for our cancellation fee not to be charged should you wish to cancel the 
cover, any refund will be based on the return premium received by the insurance 
provider at the time
The final response included a form to accept this resolution. But Mr T couldve cancelled the 
policy and still pursued his complaint with us.
In the event, Mr T didnt cancel the policy, so it continued until December 2021. As he didnt 
cancel, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct One Call to make any refund.
Overall I dont consider that One Call treated Mr T unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct one Call to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct One Call Insurance Services Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman