DRN-3540543
The complaint
Mr C complains about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds (Skyfire) valuation of his car 
following a claim under his car insurance. And that he wasnt told the excess would be 
deducted from any settlement.
What happened
Mr C had motor insurance with Skyfire from October 2020. In July 2021 the vehicle was 
stolen and so a claim was made under the insurance policy. 
Mr C isnt happy the amount Skyfire paid him for his car hasnt enabled him to purchase a 
similar car to the one he had previously. He says his car had very low mileage and he has 
been unable to find a car of the same year with similarly low mileage within the settlement 
value received from Skyfire. 
Skyfire said its valuation was based on three industry guides; Glasses, Parkers, and CAPS. 
The average of those was £43,064. Skyfire told Mr C if he didnt think the valuation would be 
enough to replace his vehicle in the marketplace he would need to provide evidence such as 
copies of car adverts. Mr C sent the adverts he had seen to Skyfire. Following a further 
telephone call Skyfire agreed to increase the settlement to £44,541 and confirmed it would 
be unable to increase the valuation above this. 
Mr C says when Skyfire offered £44,541 he agreed to it. Mr C says when the payment was 
transferred to his account £1,250 was deducted for the excess, which he wasnt told about. 
When he complained to Skyfire about this it paid him £75 to apologise for the error. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the response from Skyfire and so referred the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things and said he thought Skyfire had been fair and 
reasonable in its approach since the settlement offer was more than the valuations it had 
sourced. He also said the excess of £1,250 had been applied correctly and whilst the 
business didnt explain the excess deduction, the £75 compensation was fair to reflect the 
shortcoming in service. 
Mr C remained dissatisfied and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valuation of the vehicle 
Mr Cs policy says, the insurer will not pay more than the market value of your car at the 
time of the loss or damage, less the total excess and any unpaid premium.. The policy 
defines market value as, the cost of replacing your car with one of a similar make, model, 
age, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the accident or loss.
I need to consider whether Skyfire used the right market value for the car under the terms of 
the policy. Standard practice is to use industry accepted trade guides which are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices by reputable dealers. I have seen 
copies of the valuations and am satisfied the correct vehicle details were used to obtain 
them.
Skyfires notes say its approach to the valuation is to reflect accurately the market value of 
the vehicle prior to the incident. Its starting point is the available guides referred to above. 
AXA reviewed its initial valuation and agreed to increase it to the highest valuation from all 
four standard trade guides.  Im satisfied this figure fairly reflects the price Mr C would have 
had to pay for a comparable car at the time his was stolen.  
Mr C complains that Skyfires figure is lower than the prices he was able to find online and 
that he hasnt seen a comparable car for the price of the settlement value. Mr C provided a 
number of adverts for similar cars to his own which showed a variance in price. But the 
variance in price demonstrates that valuing a car isnt an exact science. 
As mentioned above the guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling 
prices. So while individual cars may be advertised at a higher or lower price, the guides give 
an average value of a car with its specific characteristics. Its for that reason I feel that the 
valuation of £44,541 is reasonable. Im therefore not upholding this aspect of the complaint. 
Deduction of excess 
As detailed above the policy says when settling a claim the payment will be less the total 
excesses. The policy goes on to confirm excesses arent covered under the policy, and all 
excesses are cumulative. 
And so at the point the claim was settled Skyfire deducted the excess from the settlement. 
Mr C isnt happy about this since it wasnt explained to him during the call with Skyfire 
regarding settlement. 
Skyfire paid Mr C £75 compensation for the poor communication in the agent failing to 
explain the excess would be deducted. I think it would have been preferable had the agent 
pointed out the policy excess would be deducted from the settlement. Although I dont think 
this made a difference to the valuation offered. The policy makes it clear the excess is 
payable on every claim so I think it was fair for Mr C to pay it.  
Skyfire accepted it didnt communicate the excess deduction properly and I think the £75 
paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be asking it to pay anything 
more. 
Taking this all into account I cant say Skyfire has acted unreasonably. The terms and 
conditions set out how it will settle a claim. The guides it has used refer to advertised and 
auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This 
takes into account the specifications of the vehicle as well as the mileage. The valuation 
report shows it has factored in material details relating to Mr Cs car. And in line with the 
terms and conditions the valuation report shows it has considered the market value at the 
time of the loss. On this basis I cant say Skyfire has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
arriving at its valuation. I appreciate Mr Cs concern with the amount he was offered, and he feels it falls short of 
allowing him to buy a like for like car in a similar condition. And I understand this situation is 
more frustrating considering it arises out of an incident which isnt Mr Cs fault. However I 
cant say the offer Skyfire made is unreasonable so Im not directing it to pay anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Skyfire Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman