DRN-4274463
The complaint
Mr F complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) incorrectly applied a default on his credit file relating to 
a bank account he had closed over twenty years ago, which led to a mortgage application 
being declined.
What happened
Mr F says he held a bank account with TSB which was closed over 20 years ago. Mr F says 
in 2017 TSB reopened the account and began to apply charges, but as hed moved home 
over ten years ago he never received any correspondence from TSB. Mr F says in October 
2020 he received a letter from a debt collection agency stating he owed in excess of £700 
and was advised to visit a local branch to deal with the issue, at which point in December 
2020 TSB admitted it was a mistake and it would deal with the matter. Mr F says he 
assumed at this point everything was settled but in late September 2022 he had applied for a 
mortgage via his broker and was informed it had been declined because of a default 
registered on his credit file. 
Mr F says he went into his local branch again in early October 2022 and a complaint was set 
up, but even knowing of the urgency of the situation, TSB didnt remove the default until 
November 2022 following a letter of complaint hed sent the TSBs CEO. 
Mr F says TSBs initial error and the delays in amending his credit file has led to him having 
to take a mortgage with another provider at a higher interest rate and the extra cost to him 
over the fixed period term, will be in the region of £3,800. 
Mr F says TSB should reimburse him for the extra interest costs he will have to pay, in 
addition to the £500 it has already offered him. 
TSB says its records suggest Mr Fs bank account wasnt ever closed in 2002 as hed 
thought, and a small overdrawn balance was recorded in April 2001. TSB accept it agreed to 
put matters right in March 2021 and it should  have checked the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) had correctly reported this at the time. TSB says Mr Fs mortgage application in 
September 2022 wasnt declined solely for the default as another reason was also stated 
and in any event this wasnt a formal offer but an agreement in principle  so it wasnt certain 
Mr F would have secured the interest rate he applied for. 
TSB says it offered to increase the level of compensation from £250 to £500.  
Mr F wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says there wasnt sufficient evidence to show the reason for Mr Fs mortgage 
application being declined, was solely due to the default registered with the CRAs as 
another reason was also stated for its refusal. The investigator says the lender also 
confirmed it hadnt got to the stage of underwriting an application, as it stalled at the brokers 
stage of the process and so it couldnt comment if any application would have been 
approved. 
The investigator says there was no evidence to show Mr Fs bank account was ever closed 
and the bank account was sent to a debt collection agent as part of its process. The 
investigator says the compensation TSB offered Mr F of £500 was because it accepted it 
should have checked that the CRAs had correctly amended his credit file as it has 
requested in March 2021  which the investigator felt was fair. The investigator says Mr F 
raised other issues, but these couldnt be considered as they didnt form part of Mr Fs 
original complaint. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can see Mr F has made additional points to his complaint but as these werent part of his 
original complaint to TSB to answer, I cant consider these points, and these will need to 
form part of a separate complaint if he so wishes.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr F to learn his mortgage application had 
been declined for what he believed was solely due to a default on his credit file that TSB 
should have corrected in late 2020, when he informed them of its mistake. When looking at 
this complaint I will consider if TSB are responsible for the fact Mr F had to take out a new 
mortgage at a higher interest rate as a result of his credit file not being amended, and if that 
difference in cost should be refunded to him. 
The first thing to say here is both Mr F and TSB have provided comprehensive commentary 
and information relating to this complaint and while that has proved helpful, I wont be 
commenting on every point made as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and 
impartial decision here. Thats not to say I havent considered everything  I have. 
Its fair to say the facts of this case are well known to both parties and have been described 
earlier in this decision so I wont repeat everything thats already been said here. The centre 
of Mr Fs complaint is that TSB re-opened a bank account he closed over 20 years ago and 
as a result it  incurred bank charges over many years, leading to it being defaulted and 
passed to a debt collection agent. Mr F maintains that despite this matter being discussed 
and resolved as an error by TSB in late 2020, it failed to remove the default notice registered 
with the CRAs. Mr F says this led to him being declined for a mortgage in late September 
2022 at a preferential rate of interest, which will now cost him additional interest in the region 
of £3,800 with another mortgage provider. 
Its worth saying here from the information provided to this service theres no evidence to 
suggest TSB ever re-opened Mr Fs bank account, he believes he closed many years earlier. 
This seems more of a case the bank account Mr F held wasnt ever closed, as from the 
information I have seen a statement suggests as far back as April 2001 the account existed 
and was approximately £30 overdrawn. Its not clear given the time that has passed why the 
account was still open and overdrawn when Mr F thought it had been closed and not 
unexpectedly neither Mr F nor TSB have any records going back that far. As part of TSBs 
process Mr Fs bank account was defaulted and passed to a debt collection agent. That said 
TSB did agree having heard Mr Fs explanation of events back in late 2020, it would agree to 
refund the interest and charges totalling around £700 and settle matters with the debt collection agents. 
While Mr F may not agree, from what I can understand TSB did inform the CRAs in March 
2021 to remove the default notices from his file, but it seems the various agencies recorded 
this in different ways. Here, TSB have accepted perhaps it should have checked back then, 
the agencies carried out what it had instructed them to do, and this is why it offered an 
increased offer of compensation of £500 to Mr F. 
Mr F believes the sole reason why his mortgage application was declined was due to the 
default still remaining on his credit file and his broker provided him with details of this. While I 
understand the point Mr F makes here Im not fully persuaded by his argument that this is 
solely why he will need to pay more interest with another lender, during the fixed term of 
around £3,800. I say this because firstly, it is clear in the brokers document the default 
wasnt the only reason why the mortgage was declined, there was also an issue regarding 
his employment.
While Mr F has challenged this point referring to the mortgage providers website terms, I 
cant ignore the fact it was raised as a reason for the decline. So, its not possible to know 
even if the default hadnt been registered, whether this would have affected the outcome of 
his application, or any interest rate the lender may have been prepared to offer. Afterall, the 
mortgage provider informed this service that the application never got to the point of 
underwriting, as it stalled at the brokers stage. With that in mind its not possible for me to 
say with any certainty the mortgage would have been approved or not or at the rate of 
interest Mr F was looking for. 
Mr F has pointed out that TSB once it had learned his credit file hadnt been corrected 
properly in October 2022, took too long to correct this and simply put this amendment with a 
bulk credit update which took some weeks to register, delaying matters further during a 
rising interest rate period. All I can say here is TSB will have a set process in place for 
dealing with updates to customers credit files and it would also be reliant on those CRAs to 
process these in a timely manner. Its not the role of this service to tell banks like TSB how 
its processes must operate in these circumstances. 
So, although I have some sympathy with Mr F here given the sequence of events that 
happened, I cant hold TSB solely responsible for the reason he has been put in a position 
where he will now need to pay more interest on his mortgage  for the reasons I have 
already explained. 
Mr F has been offered £500 by way of compensation from TSB relating to the fact it should 
have checked the CRAs had applied the amendments correctly back in March 2021, and I 
am satisfied that is a fair sum for that. I will leave it with Mr F if he now wishes to accept the 
offer. 
While Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of TSB here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman