DRN-3457279
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as 
Cashplus) closed their accounts without giving a reason or explanation. Theyd like the 
account to be reopened and compensation to the paid for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
What happened
T is represented by the director, Mr O. The company held an account with Cashplus. In 
October 2020 Cashplus let T know that theyd be closing the account in 60 days time, but 
they didnt provide a reason why.
Mr O complained to Cashplus about this. Cashplus responded to say they didnt feel theyd 
done anything wrong. They referred Mr O to their terms and conditions, which they said 
allowed them to close an account with 60 days notice. They said it was a business decision 
but wouldnt elaborate further. But they confirmed the account would be operational until the 
closure date. The account was closed in December 2020.
Mr O referred Ts complaint to our service, saying it had caused him significant anxiety and 
distress. He explained he had several disabilities and medical conditions, and that by closing 
the account Cashplus had discriminated against him because of his disabilities, which was 
against the Equality Act 2010. Because the account had been closed T had been unable to 
trade. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened but didnt feel Cashplus had done 
anything wrong. They said financial businesses can review accounts and close them at any 
time. They said that the terms of the Cashplus account allow them to close the account for 
any reason so long as they gave 60 days notice, and theyre not obliged to give a reason. 
They felt Cashplus have acted in line with these terms and hadnt treated T unfairly. 
The investigator also explained that T and Mr O were legally distinct entities. As the 
complaint here arises out of Ts relationship with Cashplus, we couldnt consider any distress 
or upset caused to Mr O personally. They also said they couldnt make a finding on whether 
the Equality Act had been breached, but they didnt feel Cashplus had treated T unfairly.
Mr O disagreed, saying that he was owed an explanation of why Cashpluss terms allowed 
them to close Ts accounts in the circumstances that existed. He said Cashplus had 
discriminated against him and not taken in to account reasonable adjustments for his 
disabilities. But the investigator didnt feel this changed their mind. As no agreement could 
be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The eligible complainant here is T  the limited company who held the account with 
Cashplus. I can only consider the impact of Cashplus actions on T itself. As Mr O as an 
individual is not the account holder, he isnt a consumer of Cashplus. Under our rules he isnt 
an eligible complainant, I cant consider any personal distress or inconvenience to him.
T have complained that Cashplus has failed in their duty to make reasonable adjustments 
under the Equality Act 2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this 
complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on 
whats fair and reasonable. If T want a decision that Cashplus has breached the Equality Act 
2010, then theyd need to go Court.
I think its important to point out that financial businesses have legal and regulatory 
obligations to review and monitor the accounts of their consumers. And its also important to 
note that its generally for businesses to decide whether they want to provide accounts to 
consumers. They can withdraw their facilities if they choose to do so, and dont have to 
provide a reason for doing so. What I have to consider is whether Cashplus acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the terms of Ts account.
The terms of the Cashplus account state that under certain circumstances they have the 
right to terminate a card that has been issued and/or close an account so long as they 
provide 60 days notice. This is in line with the regulations for payment accounts, and 
general industry practice. Its usually to allow a consumer to make alternative banking 
arrangements, and ensure no important payments were missed. 
I can see Cashplus did give 60 days notice. Im satisfied theyve acted in accordance with 
their terms and it isnt unreasonable for them to have done so. I can also see that T had 
raised a complaint with Cashplus about the impending closure before the expected closure 
date. This tells me the notice of closure had been received and understood. Im satisfied 
there was no detriment to T in the manner or format it was delivered.
Cashplus terms dont say they have to give a reason when they decide to close an account, 
so this isnt something they are obliged to tell T. Just as if a consumer wants to close their 
account, they dont have to provide the business with a reason. 
In general, financial businesses can make the commercial decision that they no longer want 
to provide financial services for any reasonable reason. It also doesnt have to be one 
specific reason  it could be for a confluence of a number of issues or decisions. In this case 
Cashplus havent given T a specific reason for the account closure and declined to discuss 
this further. Theyre under no obligation to give any further details. While I understand T 
would like to know more, Cashplus arent being unreasonable here.
Ive also seen nothing to suggest Cashplus have reported anything externally that would 
prevent T from getting an account elsewhere, should they choose to do so. And T had 
access to the account up until the closure date  although I note it wasnt used and wasnt 
holding a balance at the time.
Overall, Ive not seen anything to suggest Cashplus behaved unfairly or unreasonably in 
deciding to close Ts account. On that basis Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman