DRN-2416116
The complaint
Mr I complains that Equifax Limited failed to update his credit file with his electoral roll 
details. And that it also mistakenly recorded a default. He wants compensation.
What happened
Mr I complains that Equifax took too long to update his credit file with details of his electoral 
roll registration. He said this had led to an application for credit being declined. And that it 
had also mistakenly recorded a default against one of his accounts. 
Equifax told us that it has upheld Mr Is complaint about the electoral roll entry. And said that 
it had experienced a technical issue which had delayed his credit file being updated. It said 
this had been corrected in February 2020. It said it had offered £100 to Mr I by way of 
compensation.
But it hadnt upheld his complaint in relation to the recorded default. It said that a business 
which Ill refer to as O had supplied the information and that Equifax had raised a dispute 
with O upon receiving Mr Is complaint. It said that O had confirmed that Mr I was in arrears 
on the account and that no amendments were required. 
Our investigator thought that Equifax offer of £100 in relation to the electoral roll entry was 
fair and reasonable. But he didnt think it had done anything wrong in recording the default. 
He said that Equifax had recorded information supplied by O. And that it had raised a 
dispute with O when Mr I complained. But as O had confirmed the entry was correct, he said 
that Equifax hadnt done anything wrong in not removing the record.
Mr I didnt agree with this. He felt it was the fault of Equifax  not O  that the default had 
been recorded. And that its offer of £100 wasnt enough. As its not been possible to resolve 
this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr I would be upset if his credit file contained inaccurate entries and 
that this had affected his ability to obtain credit.
Mr Is complaint comprises of two main elements. He feels that Equifax took too long to 
update his credit file so that it reflected his registration on the electoral roll. And that it 
mistakenly recorded a default in relation to an account with O and showed an incorrect debit 
balance.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ill first deal with the electoral roll issue. Details of electoral roll registrations are published 
annually. And are compiled by local authorities. It might usually be expected for this to be 
issued in January each year, but Equifax explained it had encountered some technical 
issues which meant a delay in correcting the entry until the following month. Mr I has 
suggested that this caused an application for credit to be declined. But Ive seen nothing to 
show that the reason for any application being declined was due to this factor. I find that 
Equifax offer of £100 was fair and reasonable.
Equifax, as a credit reference agency, records information that is supplied by financial 
businesses. And it cant alter the entries without the agreement of the relevant business.  
After receiving Mr Is complaint, Equifax raised a dispute with O  which is what wed expect. 
And when O replied and said the record neednt be amended - and provided an explanation 
about account arrears - it was fair and reasonable for Equifax to accept this and not alter the 
record at that time. 
Ive seen a more recent screenshot of Mr Is Equifax credit file. This appears to show the 
default has now been removed from Os account. And the account shows a payment 
arrangement from March 2020 and an amended debit balance. This indicates that Equifax 
has recorded some amended details supplied by O. And the delay that occurred is due to it 
having to wait until it received these amended entry details from O.
Our investigator correctly stated in his view that if Mr I was dissatisfied with the way in which 
O had recorded his account history and balance, he would have to take it up with O. And it is 
my understanding that Mr I has now done so.
In summary, I find that Equifax has dealt with this complaint fairly. It gave reasonable 
explanations for its actions. And it offered what I consider to be a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation for the minor delay relating to the electoral roll.
Putting things right
Equifax should pay £100 to Mr I.
My final decision
Equifax has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Equifax Limited should pay £100 to Mr I.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman