DRN-2294387
The complaint
Mr Z has complained NewDay Ltd, trading as Debenhams Store Card, did little to help after 
he complained about a payment hed made under duress for £1,000 whilst overseas.
What happened
Mr Z was on holiday in April 2019 with family. They hired a couple of jet skis. After a small 
collision their hire period was brought to an end. The people whod hired the jet skis asked 
Mr Z to pay £1,450 in compensation. Mr Z disputed there was any damage but felt 
threatened enough to pay the money. He did this by using a debit card and his Debenhams 
store card. This was debited for £998.45.
He complained to NewDay practically immediately and told them what had happened. In 
mid-May after the return of paperwork, NewDay processed this transaction as a chargeback. 
This was done on the basis Mr Z had been debited an unreasonable amount. As Mr Z had 
used his own card and entered his PIN, this claim proved invalid.
NewDay said there was nothing else they could do to assist. They offered Mr Z £25 
compensation for not processing his subject access request appropriately.
Mr Z brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator felt NewDay could 
have processed the chargeback under different grounds  for example no goods or services 
received. This specifically would deal with the fact that the merchant that processed this 
transaction deals in the wholesale trade of liquid fuels. He asked NewDay to refund the 
disputed transaction in full and repay the additional exchange costs that occurred when 
NewDay re-debited this amount from Mr Zs account in August 2019.
NewDay didnt agree with this outcome. They continued to believe that as Mr Z was 
threatened to make this transaction, he should have managed this by reporting the matter to 
the police.
This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. That 
includes the card schemes chargeback rules.
The Payment Services Regulations are also relevant here. These primarily require banks to 
refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances can apply. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the disputed 
transaction, as well as what NewDay and Mr Z have told us. I can see the timeline of events 
and each partys testimony were covered in detail in our investigators view of 17 July 2020. I 
dont intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects 
which form the basis of my decision.
Firstly its clear to me that Mr Z authorised the transaction. I appreciate he did this under 
duress  and I dont dispute his testimony about this  but that unfortunately means in law he 
authorised the payment.
However that doesnt mean there were no grounds for NewDay to assist Mr Z. NewDay 
could raise a chargeback or they could consider Mr Zs rights under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
NewDay has taken the stance that because Mr Z authorised the transaction, they had no 
wiggle room under the chargeback rules. But I disagree. It seems clear to me that if Mr Z 
made a transaction for £1,000 or thereabouts to a wholesaler of liquid fuels, Id expect to see 
some goods or services in return. Theres no evidence Mr Z received anything. This would 
mean that this claim would have been successful for the reason of goods or services not 
provided under the chargeback rules. I also suspect there would have been sufficient 
grounds for a successful claim under section 75.
Putting things right
As I believe this claim would have been successful under the correct chargeback rules, I 
think its fair and reasonable that NewDay reimburse Mr Z.
They will need to reimburse the amount Mr Z was re-debited (which include additional costs 
as the exchange rate had changed in the interim) to ensure that Mr Z is not out of pocket for 
this transaction. 
I think Mr Z has repaid his NewDay account in full so when NewDay reimburse him, theyll 
need to add 8% simple interest to the refund.
NewDay paid Mr Z £25 compensation for delays in processing his subject access request. 
Im increasing the compensation payable to a total of £125 so NewDay will need to pay Mr Z 
a further £100. I say this because of the errors they made and the impact these had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct NewDay Ltd, trading as 
Debenhams Store Card, to:
Reimburse the money debited to Mr Zs account for the disputed transaction, 
including the fees and additional costs due to exchange rate fluctuation;
Add 8% simple interest to that refund from the date Mr Z paid his account in full until 
the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr Z an additional £100 for trouble caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman