DRN-4051950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined their buildings 
insurance claim for storm damage.
What happened
In autumn 2022, Mr and Mrs J suffered multiple leaks in the top floor of their home.  These 
had started during what they describe as a terrible storm.  So they made a claim to Aviva to 
have the damage repaired under their home insurance policy.
Aviva had the claim assessed and declined it.  They said that there had been no storm (as 
defined by the policy terms) in the area on the day in question.  Mr and Mrs J complained 
about Avivas decision.  Aviva reviewed their decision but didnt change their position.  So Mr 
and Mrs J brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded Aviva didnt need to do anything more 
to resolve Mr and Mrs Js complaint.  She was satisfied they had considered the claim fairly 
and in line with the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with the investigators view and sent us more evidence which they 
said showed there had been a storm in their area.  Ive now been asked to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint.  Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained, insurers have a duty to handle claims fairly, in line with the 
policy terms.  So, in order to say Aviva should do more than they have done, Id need to be 
satisfied they havent done that.
Ive started by studying the policy terms.  They dont provide cover for everything that may 
happen to a property  rather, they cover a range of specified risks.  Mr and Mrs Js policy 
does provide cover for storm damage.
But the policy gives storm a specific definition.  That is:
A period of violent weather which may incorporate:
 wind speeds of at least 48 knots (55mph)
 torrential rain, falling at a rate of at least 25mm an hour
 snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 centimetres) in a 24 hour period
 hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hardened surfaces or breaks glass.
Avivas investigations  and those of our investigator  found the highest wind speed in the 
week Mr and Mrs J say their property was damaged was 36 mph and the heaviest hourly 
rainfall was 4.2 mm.  So the weather at the time didnt meet the policy definition of a storm.
I appreciate the efforts Mr and Mrs J have made to provide evidence of the weather 
conditions at the relevant time  which included photos, videos, and testimony of other local 
residents.  Avivas records show they reviewed all the information provided to them when Mr 
and Mrs J challenged their decision, but it didnt change their view there had been no storm 
as defined by the policy.
Ive looked at the evidence Mr and Mrs J have sent.  Nothing Ive seen persuades me that 
either the wind or rainfall at the time met the policy definition of a storm.  So I cant say 
Avivas decision was unfair.  And I dont think they need to do anything else to resolve Mr 
and Mrs Js complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint about Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman