DRN-3568510
The complaint
Mrs F complains Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse her in full for money she lost when falling 
victim to a bank impersonation scam.
What happened
In March 2021, Mrs F received texts purportedly from another bank she is a customer of, 
which Ill call B, to ask if she had made a payment of £253.99. When she replied N she 
was told shed be contacted. It transpires this text and the following calls were actually from 
scammers pretending to be Bs fraud department.
Mrs F says the callers knew her bank details, personal information and had seen fraudulent 
activity including payments to Deliveroo and Mercedes. She says they explained her two 
current accounts with B had been compromised and they would need to set up two new 
accounts for her. It isnt entirely clear how the scammers had access to Mrs Fs accounts 
with B. But she reports she was told fraudsters had taken out overdrafts  totalling £2,000 - 
on her accounts and everything needed to be transferred to Monzo to prevent loss. Mrs F 
agreed to the transfer into her Monzo account.
She says she was then notified two new accounts had been set up with B and account 
details were provided for her to move her money back to it. When she attempted it initially, 
she received a message that the payee  her  didnt match the account destination. So she 
was given another name to use, and was told it was the name of a branch manager for B. 
She then received a further warning, in which Mrs F confirmed she was transferring money 
to a safe account. Mrs F not only sent back the £2,000, she also sent an additional £2,958 
that had been held in her Monzo account  this was done in two payments. It isnt entirely 
clear why this was done but it appears Mrs F was told the fraudsters had access to her 
Monzo account also. During this time, Mrs F says she searched the number she was called 
from and realised it was a scam.
Mrs F reported the matter to Monzo. It refunded £2,958 that she had lost from her Monzo 
account. But it refused to reimburse the £2,000 as it said that had been unauthorised lending 
and so should be the responsibility of B. Not happy with that, Mrs F asked us to look into her 
complaint.  Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that, under the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM), Monzo should reimburse 
customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited 
circumstances; and she didnt think those circumstances applied here. (Although not a 
signatory of the CRM, Monzo has agreed to adhere to it). The investigator upheld the 
complaint as:
She wasnt persuaded Monzo had provided an effective warning when the 
payments were requested.
She was satisfied Mrs F had a reasonable basis for belief that her account 
with B was compromised and that she needed to take action.
As Mrs F had selected safe account it ought to have known she was risk of 
losing money and paused the payment to ask further questions.
Monzo asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, it says:
It doesnt believe it should be reimbursing the £2,000 that was unauthorised 
lending from B. It believes B should be responsible for reimbursing this.
It provided an extract from some guidance where it suggests the loan provider 
will be liable for making good an unauthorised loan and so it doesnt believe it is 
responsible for this.
On 24 May 2022, I issued my provisional decision explaining why I wasnt going to ask 
Monzo to pay any more compensation than it already has. Monzo has confirmed it agrees 
with the outcome reached. We havent heard from Mrs F, despite following the matter up 
and providing extra time for a response. It is now appropriate to move the complaint to 
this final stage and in doing so, I have assumed Mrs F has nothing further to add.
As neither party has provided any further submissions for me to consider, I see no reason to 
alter my provisional findings. I therefore make them final below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment service provider is expected to 
process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which apply to this complaint, and account terms and conditions. 
But where a customer made a payment as a result of the actions of a scammer, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment service provider to reimburse its customer, 
even though the payment was authorised.
In considering this, I have taken account of whether Monzo ought to have reimbursed Mrs F 
under the provisions of the CRM code, and whether it ought to have done more to protect 
her from potential financial harm from fraud. The Code also places a level of care on Mrs F, 
and so I have considered whether she met this.
The CRM Code
The CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse customers who have been 
the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this, in all but limited 
circumstances. It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of 
care under one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
o
There are other exceptions which arent applicable here. So I need to consider whether any 
exceptions apply to Mrs Fs case.
Was there an effective warning?The CRM Code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand 
what actions they need to take to address risk and the consequences of not doing so. As a 
minimum the CRM Code sets out that an effect warning should be understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific.
Monzo has provided a copy of the warning that was provided to Mrs F. Initially the customer 
is asked what the payment is for  amongst a number of options is Transfer to a safe 
account. Once that option is selected the customer is taken to an additional screen which 
has a warning triangle, and underneath says:
Stop, dont pay
Its very likely this is a scam
Remember
X Monzo will never call you 
without arranging by email or in-
app chat first
X Other banks will never ask you to 
move money out of your Monzo 
account.
I have considered the warning carefully. And although I accept this is written in clear 
language and is provided at a timely place within the payment journey, Im not persuaded its 
impactful or specific. Although it tells the customer not to pay, it doesnt set out the 
consequences of proceeding; Monzo has said in its submissions that the warning clearly 
states that it is almost impossible to reclaim money, but this doesnt feature in the warning 
information it says Mrs F saw. And although it says other banks will never ask you to move 
money out of Monzo, there is nothing about scammers pretending to be banks within the 
warning.
Overall, Im not minded to find the warning was effective. I do, however, think it relevant to 
take into account when deciding if Mrs F had a reasonable basis for belief, which I come on 
to below.
Should Monzo have intervened?
I have taken account of section SF1(5) of the CRM which says:
Where a Firm has sufficient concern that a payment may be an APP scam, it should 
take appropriate action to delay the payment while it investigates.
Where Firms have concerns, Firms should intervene on a risk-based approach to 
delay execution of the payment authorisation to the extent possible within the limits of 
the law and regulation, taking reasonable steps to communicate with the originating 
customer.
I think it fair to say, at the point Mrs F selected transfer to a safe account when indicating 
the purpose of the transfers, Monzo was on notice that she was more likely than not falling 
victim to a scam; Im not aware of any legitimate scenario involving a safe account. It 
therefore should have had sufficient concern that she was at risk of financial harm such that 
it ought to have delayed the payments and spoke to Mrs F before allowing them. Im 
satisfied an intervention of the type set out in the CRM would have been sufficient to stop 
Mrs F in her tracks and so Monzo could have prevented her loss.Should Monzo be liable for the £2,000 transferred from B?
The scammers had access to Mrs Fs accounts with B. And as part of the scam was able to 
effect two overdrafts, one on each of the accounts held with B. Mrs F says she was told the 
fraudsters who had access to her accounts had taken out the overdrafts and she needed to 
move the funds in order stop the fraudsters having access to them. As a result she 
authorised the moving of the funds from B to Monzo in order to protect them.
I do take Monzos point that the lending here was unauthorised; Mrs F hadnt taken out the 
overdrafts nor agreed to them being taken out. But the transfer from B to Monzo was in fact 
authorised  she agreed for the transfer to take place to protect the funds. Im satisfied that 
once the funds were within Mrs Fs account with Monzo, they became its responsibility to 
safeguard from the risk of fraud and scams, in line with its duties and obligations.
I have considered the information provided by Monzo, which appears to be a form of 
guidance in relation to reimbursement of funds if unauthorised lending has occurred. It goes 
on further to say any unauthorised lending should be referred back to the lender. However, 
this doesnt appear to be part of the official CRM nor its accompanying practitioners guide. I 
have therefore placed little weight on this in reaching my conclusion in the paragraph above.
Did Mrs F have a reasonable basis for belief?
Under the CRM Code Monzo can choose not to reimburse Mrs F if it doesnt believe she 
took the requisite level of care to ensure she had a reasonable basis for belief that the 
person/business she was paying was legitimate and for genuine goods or services. It isnt 
enough for Mrs F to believe that she was paying a legitimate business for genuine goods or 
services, she had to have a reasonable basis for belief. And its here that I disagree with 
some of the investigators findings.
I accept that Mrs F was under the impression that her accounts with B had been 
compromised. I also accept the scammers were very convincing  they knew personal 
details about her and seemingly wanted to help her keep her money safe. However, it isnt 
clear why Mrs F accepted the texts that started the scam process as legitimate. They werent 
sent from a number spoofed to look like Bs, nor did it enter into any previous chat or text line 
that Mrs F had had with B previously. Rather the text came from a mobile number which isnt 
how a bank would usually contact its customer.
Further, its unclear why, having been told two new accounts had been opened with B that 
Mrs F sent not only the £2,000 back, but also the money she had held in her Monzo account. 
There is some indication in Monzos file that she was told the scammers were in contact with 
Monzo as well, but its unclear why Mrs F believed B would have had access to Monzos 
systems in order to know that.
But more important, is that Mrs F was told by Monzo not to pay, and that she was likely 
falling victim to a scam. Further, the warning also said that other banks would never ask her 
to move money out of her account. Whilst I didnt find the warning effective, once Mrs F saw 
this, Im satisfied she no longer had a reasonable basis for belief that the payment was for 
genuine goods or services, or that the person or business with whom she was transacting 
was legitimate.
Under the CRM Code where a business has failed to provide an effective warning, but the 
customer hasnt met the requisite level of care, each party will accept equal responsibility. In 
these situations the CRM Code requires the payment service provider/bank to reimburse 
50% of the losses. Although I have found Monzo could have done more, I find that a fair way 
to resolve this complaint  as I have found Monzo didnt provide an effective warning, but that Mrs F hadnt met the requisite level of care to ensure she was paying a legitimate 
person or business or for genuine goods or services.
Monzo has already reimbursed Mrs F £2,958 which is over 50% of the total losses Mrs F 
incurred. Im therefore dont require it to reimburse anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman