DRN-3477121
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) didnt automatically renew his 
debit card. And he is unhappy with some of RBSs policies and processes. He would like 
compensation for the time taken in pursuing his complaint and for loss of interest in not 
being able to move funds to accounts with higher interest. He would also like RBS to 
change its policies on card renewal and complaint handling.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Ws frustration that as RBS didnt automatically renew his debit 
card he found himself without online access for a time. RBS has explained that 
its policy, for security reasons , is not to renew cards that havent been used 
either at a cash machine or for a purchase for some time  according to their 
records Mr W hadnt used his for 13 months prior to expiry. Security measures 
are there to protect both consumers and the bank. And as RBS followed its 
policy I cant say it was wrong not to automatically renew Mr Ws card. I have 
noted Mr Ws comments on card renewal and other RBS polices and processes 
but its not for us to tell a business what policies and processes to use.
I understand RBS credited Mr Ws account with £5 to cover the cost of a call he 
made. And has offered Mr W £100 compensation for the inconvenience of not 
having access to his card during the time it took to order one manually for him. I 
have noted Mr Ws comments that lost the opportunity to move money to a higher 
interest account, but he hasnt evidenced this . But even if he had, as I dont 
believe RBS did anything wrong in not automatically renewing Mr Ws debit card 
,this isnt something I can consider when looking at compensation.
I have also noted Mr Ws comments about compensation for his time in dealing 
with this complaint. Unfortunately, when complaints are made this can be time 
consumingfor both parties but that doesnt automatically mean compensation is 
awarded for this. I am not aware of any specific actions by RBS that caused 
any undue delay to Mr Ws complaint being dealt with that would warrant 
compensation.
Having carefully considered all the facts in this case I think the £100 
compensation RBS has offered for the inconvenience of the short time Mr W was 
without the use of his debit card is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC should pay Mr W 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience,if it has not done so already
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman