DRN-2641178
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont provide a further 
extension of their interest only mortgage after the term had been extended already for three 
years
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have an interest only mortgage with an outstanding balance of £207,000. 
Their house has been valued at about £468,000. The mortgage term was due to expire in 
2018, so in 2017 Mr and Mrs M asked, through their financial adviser, for an extension of the 
mortgage term and a product transfer. At that stage their plan was to sell and relocate 
abroad and they needed three years to organise that. Halifax approved the term extension 
until August 2020. Mr and Mrs M also switched to a fixed interest rate product of 1.54% until 
31 October 2019. That meant that for part of the extended period Mr and Mrs M would be on 
Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR) but Halifax says that they were content with that as 
they hoped to be in a more secure financial position then and capable of paying the higher 
payments.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs M approached Halifax again looking a further extension. At that stage 
they were going on the SVR and wanted a further extension and a new mortgage product to 
lower the monthly payments. Halifax was unwilling to give a further term extension. It said 
that Mr and Mrs M didnt have an acceptable repayment vehicle in place and that it would be 
irresponsible to provide a further extension. It said that it looked at alternative mortgages 
with an element of repayment and at a retirement interest only mortgage. But it says that 
these were deemed unsuitable or unavailable as options. Halifax says that Mr and Mrs M 
own a property overseas and this could be used to pay off the mortgage. 
Our investigator was of the view that Mr and Mrs M had got a three-year extension but had 
taken no reasonable steps during that period to repay their mortgage and didnt believe that 
a further extension would bring any resolution. On that basis she didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed saying in summary that they had 
several options to repay the mortgage, but they would rather do this in three years time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems that at one time Mr and Mrs M had an endowment policy as an intended repayment 
vehicle, but this was cashed in to pay other debts. So, in 2017 Mr and Mrs M werent in a 
position to pay off the capital balance on the mortgage and asked for an extension. The 
notes on Halifaxs file at that stage say that Mrs M had an income from her part time 
employment of about £11,000 per year although Mr M who was setting up a business had no 
income. There were no financial dependants. The notes also say that they wanted an 
extension to see if Mr Ms business would generate income to repay the mortgage or 
alternatively, they would sell their house and move abroad. Halifax granted an extension, but 
it was clearly on the basis to allow Mr and Mrs M time to address the issue of repaying the 
loan. I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Ms belief that it was reasonable to assume that they 
would subsequently get a further term extension.
 
Mr and Mrs M have a difficulty. Mr and Mrs M owe Halifax about £207,000 which was to be 
repaid in 2018 but that hasnt happened yet. In 2017 they got an interest only mortgage 
extension which I understand was to give them some breathing space to address that issue. 
But things remain much as they were then although I note that Mr M is now able to get a 
state pension. However, Mr and Mrs M wont be able to pay the capital balance off through 
their pension and other income. I note that Halifax looked at repayment options for the 
mortgage, but Mr and Mrs Ms income wont allow a realistic repayment option. I understand 
that they have a property abroad but that this is a property that they might want to move to 
eventually and not sell. In any case, from what Mr and Mrs M tell me, it isnt readily saleable.
Recently, Mr and Mrs M seem to be exploring the option of refinancing the property, I 
assume through an equity release scheme. But they also have the option to sell and 
downsize. They are clearly not without options. I appreciate that they would prefer to remain 
in the property. On the other hand, under the terms of the mortgage, they agreed to repay 
the money to Halifax in 2018 and Halifax should expect to get paid. 
Although Mr and Mrs M dont have a repayment vehicle in place which formed the basis of 
Halifaxs refusal of a further extension, Ive considered whether it would be in Mr and Mrs 
Ms best interests for Halifax to provide such an extension. But I dont believe it would be. 
Presently there is equity in their property and the issues that they referred to that overhung 
the property market in 2019 are no longer there.
 
Mr and Mrs M have the prospect of obtaining an equity release product or alternatively the 
ability to sell and downsize. In their email to us in February of this year Mr and Mrs M say 
that after a recent valuation that they have equity of £245,000-£275,000 in the property. 
Given that Mr and Mrs M should be able to pay off this mortgage now I dont see how either 
of the above strategies benefit from a further delay with Mr and Mrs M exposing themselves 
to various financial risks including the risks of changes to the housing market. So, I dont 
believe that Halifax was acting unfairly when it refused their request for a term extension and 
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Ive also looked at the issue of Mr and Mrs M going onto the SVR after two years of the 
previous extension. This resulted from the mortgage product only covering two rather than 
three years of that extension. But that seems to have suited Mr and Mrs Ms expressed 
plans at the time as there was an expectation that in the final year, they would be selling 
their property. If they had been recommended a three-year mortgage product that would 
have generated a further charge - an early repayment charge - if their plans to sell had 
worked out so I cant say that Halifaxs recommendation of a two-year mortgage product was 
inappropriate.
I note that presently Mr and Mrs M are looking at the option of refinancing. I would ask 
Halifax to allow them a short period to see if this is feasible. If it is not, and Mr and Mrs M 
decide to sell the property, I would ask Halifax to give them a reasonable period to market 
and sell the property.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman