DRN-2498973
The complaint
Mr T complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) failed to start his car 
insurance cover from the correct date. Mr T feels the compensation Admiral have offered 
isnt enough to recognise the impact this has had on him.   
What happened
Mr T renewed his car insurance with Admiral to start in April 2020. In July, he was stopped 
by the police who explained his car wasnt insured. Mr T complained to Admiral who 
accepted there had been an error. They said the call handler dealing with Mr Ts renewal 
had incorrectly entered the renewal start date as September instead of April. Admiral 
apologised for their error and offered £250 compensation and for the £25 Stay at Home fee 
to be refunded. Admiral said £275 had been sent to Mr Ts account. Admiral also explained 
they had written off £118.31 which was going to be due on the policy in September. So, this 
meant Mr T didnt owe Admiral anything to insure his car for the policy term.        
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. She thought Admirals offer to put things right 
was reasonable and wouldnt be asking them to do anything further. Mr T disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the steps Admiral have taken are a fair way to resolve matters 
and so I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint in this matter. I understand Mr T will be disappointed 
by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr T. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Admiral have admitted they got things wrong when they incorrectly entered the start 
date of the policy as September instead of April. The only issue I have to decide is whether 
the steps theyve taken to put things right are fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Admiral should compensate Mr T for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. Mr T has told us the situation with Admiral caused him anxiety 
and left him feeling very worried. Mr T says the police told him he would get six points and a 
fine. He says he was left road side while the police made enquiries with Admiral. Its 
understandable Mr T was caused confusion and worry when told by the police his car wasnt 
insured. I feel its reasonable for Admiral to pay compensation to reflect the distress to Mr T 
as well as the inconvenience in being stopped by the police and having to wait road side.  
I can see that, once Admiral were told about the issue in July, they did deal with the matter 
promptly. They immediately brought forward the start date of the policy and agreed to 
honour cover from the start date in April. That would give Mr T an assurance that the cover 
does include the period between April to July. Admiral have written off the additional cost of 
£53.83 to bring forward the start date of the insurance as well as the cost of £118.31 they 
initially quoted to insure the car. Therefore, Mr T hasnt been charged to insure the car over 
the policy period. And, theyve also paid compensation of £250 and refunded £25. 
So, while there has been distress and inconvenience to Mr T, this has been over a limited 
period. The insurance should have started in April but Mr T wasnt aware of the problem until 
he was stopped by the police in July, so I cant say this had an impact on him over this 
period of time. Also, while I understand it will be worrying to be stopped by the police, I 
havent seen any evidence this resulted in a fine or other penalty. Taking everything into 
account, I feel the £275 compensation already paid by Admiral is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and reflects the distress, worry, confusion and inconvenience caused to Mr T. 
I have noted Mr Ts concerns and understand hes worried about what wouldve happened 
had he made a claim during the period his car wasnt insured. He feels there wouldve been 
delay and confusion in dealing with any claim. I do understand Mr Ts concern about this but 
I can only look at what has happened and what Admiral should do to put things right.   
In summary, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint in this matter and agree the steps taken by 
Admiral are a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman