DRN-3896317
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC when closing two 
accounts. 
What happened
Mr H had two accounts with Barclays, one of which had been transferred into his name 
following the death of his mother. At the end of June 2021 Mr H visited a branch of Barclays 
and advised he wanted to close his account. Branch staff say they offered to send a transfer 
but Mr T requested the funds via cheque. A closure process was completed and branch staff 
arranged for a cheque to be sent out centrally. But Mr T was expecting to receive the cheque 
during his visit. 
Mr H has told us branch staff refused to reverse the process and ultimately asked him to 
leave the branch. 
Mr H went back to the branch around 10 days later as he hadnt received the cheque. Mr H 
has told us he asked branch staff to cancel any cheques that had been issued and process 
transfers that day. Mr H says he was embarrassed by branch staff during the visit and that 
they unnecessarily called the Police. Barclays says Mr H refused to leave without his funds 
despite being advised they couldnt be provided that day. Barclays says it ultimately had to 
call the Police before Mr H would leave. Before Mr H left a County Court claim form was 
given to branch staff. 
Later that day, Barclays called Mr H to advise a transfer to his new bank would be made. 
Mr H says he wanted the funds from each account to be sent separately but Barclays 
advised it could only complete one transfer. The funds were received by Mr Hs new bank a 
few days later. Mr H went on to issue legal demands to Barclays around the same time. 
Mr H complained about the way his branch visits had been handled and problems receiving 
the funds from his closed accounts. 
Barclays sent Mr H a final response and apologised that branch staff hadnt explained that 
issuing a cheque when closing an account could take up to 10 working days. Barclays 
agreed a settlement of £100 to apologise for the inconvenience caused. Mr H went back to 
Barclays with further comment but it didnt change its view of how to resolve his complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs complaint. They thought Barclays had dealt 
with Mr Hs case fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr H asked to appeal and said 
Barclays settlement didnt reflect the way his branch visits were handled, the decision to 
send funds via cheque without checking or distress and inconvenience caused. As Mr G 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I also need to explain that Im aware Mr H referred another complaint to us that was subject 
to an ombudsmans decision. As that case related to another complainant and has already 
been the subject of an ombudsmans decision Im not going to comment on it here. My 
decision is focused on the circumstances under which Mr Hs accounts were closed and 
funds paid by Barclays. 
Mr H has given us a lot of detail concerning his visits to Barclays and the service provided by 
branch staff. I understand why Mr H wanted to close his accounts and withdraw his funds 
and its clear it was important for him to have some resolution when he visited the branch at 
the end of June 2021. At this point, Mr Hs replacement account hadnt been opened so 
Barclays couldnt make a transfer. As a result, when the accounts were closed branch staff 
used the option to send the funds by cheque.
Barclays has explained the process of closing accounts and issuing funds isnt completed in 
branch, its done centrally. So there was never an option for Mr H to close his accounts in 
branch and receive a cheque on the day of his visit. But I can see this is very much what 
Mr H was expecting to receive. And I agree that Barclays made a mistake by not telling him 
about the process to close accounts or that it would take around ten working days to 
complete. 
When Mr H visited the branch again around 10 days later, things became more strained. 
After waiting a reasonable period for his cheque to arrive, Mr H went back to the branch for 
an update and with the intention of obtaining his funds. I understand why Mr H wanted to 
resolve matters on that day. And I agree it wouldve been better for all parties if hed been 
given the information about how long it took to issue cheque payments before the process 
started. But by this point, Barclays had closed Mr Hs account and made arrangements to 
send the funds on. There was no open account for Barclays branch staff to make a transfer 
from at this point. 
I can understand why Mr H is upset at how the branch visit went and ended. I can see Mr H 
was intent on obtaining his money  he ended the visit by giving branch staff a County Court 
claims form advising he intended to take legal action. But Im satisfied that at this stage there 
was nothing branch staff could do to enable Mr H to leave with his funds. Mr H has explained 
he told branch staff he wouldnt leave without his funds which is something branch staff said 
they were unable to do. Ultimately, the Police were called and spoke with Mr H over the 
phone. Mr H agreed to leave but its clear that matters became strained and the visit didnt 
end well. 
Whilst I understand Mr H feels he was treated unfairly, I havent been persuaded that the 
branch staffs actions were unreasonable. From what Ive seen, the decision to call the 
Police was taken after Mr H confirmed he was unwilling to accept funds wouldnt be provided 
or leave the branch. In my view, it was reasonable for branch staff to bring the matter to a 
conclusion by seeking assistance. Ive read and considered everything Mr H has sent us when bringing his complaint. Whilst I 
agree Barclays ought to have made its processing times clear, Im satisfied the settlement of 
£100 it paid fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Mr H as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter, but I havent been 
persuaded to increase the award. As Im satisfied Barclays dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman