DRN-2452133
The complaint
Mr A complains about the performance of the pension plan he has with Scottish Friendly 
Assurance Society Limited.
What happened
In 1997 Mr A took out a pension plan with Canada Life. The plan has since been taken over 
by Scottish Friendly. Mr A invested £600 and then made monthly contributions of £50. He 
stopped paying into the plan in 2004.
Mr A reviewed the value of his pension plan in 2019 and was disappointed with its 
performance. He said the stock market was high, so he couldnt understand why his pension 
wasnt worth more.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr As pension 
plan hadnt grown as much as it might have done because he stopped making contributions 
in 2004. But even if hed continued contributing, there was no guarantee that his fund 
wouldve grown as much as he was expecting. The investigator was satisfied that the 
amounts set out in the illustrations provided by Scottish Friendly werent guaranteed. He 
wasnt persuaded that Scottish Friendly had done anything wrong. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator.
Scottish Friendly provided two illustrations of what Mr As pension might be worth when he 
retired. The first was in connection with the initial £600 contribution he made. The illustration 
used three different assumed rates of growth. They were reflective of general conditions in 
financial markets at the time, including interest rates, but actual growth rates have, in fact, 
been much lower. That would explain why the value of Mr As pension plan is lower than he 
was expecting.
But Im satisfied that Scottish Friendly made Mr A aware this was a possibility. Its illustration 
said:
These figures are only examples and are not guaranteed  they are not minimum or 
maximum amounts. What you get back depends on how your investments grow.
Your pension income will depend on how your investments grow and interest rates at the 
time you retire.
The other illustration was produced on the basis that Mr A would continue making regular 
contributions to his pension plan until he retired. But the contributions stopped in 2004. So 
the amount of money that Scottish Friendly had to invest (and potentially grow Mr As fund) 
was smaller than it might have been.
The illustration carried the same warnings as set out above.
I can understand why Mr A is disappointed that his pension fund isnt worth more, but from 
what Ive seen Im not persuaded that Scottish Friendly has done anything wrong, either in 
the illustrations it produced, or in the way it has invested Mr As pension funds. Mr As plan 
was invested primarily in equities  or stocks and shares. And whilst the stock markets have 
more recently performed well, there have been many years since 1997 when this wasnt the 
case.  
For example, there was over a decade, since the previous FTSE 100 peak in 1999, before 
that index again exceeded that value, in no small part due to the financial downturn in the 
early 2000s and then the financial crisis of 2008/09. Both events had a significant impact on 
the value of equities, which have taken time to recover.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman