DRN-3200278
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about credit granted to her by Startline Motor Finance Limited 
(Startline). She says she was in financial difficulty at the time and Startline didnt carry 
out adequate checks before lending to her.
What happened
Startline agreed credit for Mrs M on 7 June 2019 via an intermediary in order for her 
to acquire a car. The cash price of the car, as per the agreement, was £12,248. The 
total amount owing under the agreement, including £4,724 interest and charges, 
came to £16,972. I understand that Mrs M paid a £300 deposit and the remainder 
was to be repaid by 59 instalments of £278 and a final payment of £288 (all figures 
rounded).
The credit was granted under a hire purchase agreement meaning Mrs M would own the 
car when the credit had been repaid. Startline was the owner until that point and Mrs M 
was, in essence, paying for the use of it.
I can see from the account history that Mrs M made her first payment but further direct 
debits were returned. By December 2019, Startline had recovered and sold the car. It 
credited the proceeds to Mrs Ms account, leaving an outstanding balance of over £8,700 
owing.
Mrs M says that Startline should not have agreed to lend to her because she couldnt 
afford to meet the repayments. She says Startline would have declined her application if 
it had carried out further checks, given her existing debt. Furthermore, Mrs M says that 
she was vulnerable at the time she entered into the agreement due to her mental health.
Startline says that it carried out the necessary checks before entering into the agreement 
with Mrs M and that she didnt disclose any vulnerability at the time. Nevertheless, 
Startline says that its recovery team offered to reduce the outstanding balance she owed 
to £4,100 as a full and final settlement of her complaint.
Our investigator looked into what happened when Mrs Ms finance was agreed and 
found that Startline had been irresponsible to enter into an agreement with her. They 
recommended that Mrs Ms complaint be upheld and proposed that Startline refund 
Miss Ms deposit and interest payments and waive the outstanding balance.
Startline didnt agree with this recommendation. It says its checks showed that the 
agreement would be affordable for Mrs M and her credit file didnt show shed had 
problems managing her existing debt. It asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve. 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October 2021 explaining why I planned to uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint. I allowed some time for both parties to respond. Mrs M said she 
agreed with my conclusions but Startline did not agree. Both parties provided further 
points for me to consider when making my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having carefully considered what both parties have said in 
response to my provisional decision, I remain of the view that Mrs Ms complaint should 
be upheld. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Startline and Ive set out below 
the reasons Ive come to this final conclusion. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the 
regulator when Startline lent to Mrs M. Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend 
responsibly. As set out in its rules and guidance, Startline needed to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (PRIN 2.2.1R-6) and it would not be 
doing so if it targeted customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable 
for them, by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or 
any other reason. (CONC 2.2.2G).
Startline needed to check that Mrs M could afford to meet her repayments without 
difficulty before agreeing credit for her. In other words, it needed to check she could 
meet her repayments out of her usual income without having to borrow to meet them, 
while meeting any existing obligations and without the payments having a significant 
adverse impact on her financial situation. The checks needed to be proportionate to 
the nature of the credit and Mrs Ms circumstances, and Startline needed to take 
proper regard to the outcome of that assessment in respect of affordability risk.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Startline complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Ms application to satisfy itself that she would 
be able to make her repayments wihout experiencing adverse consequences? If not, 
what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? Did Startline make a fair 
lending decision?
Startline says it asked Mrs M for her net monthly income which she gave as £835, and it 
estimated from this that she had a salary of £10,209. It used a credit reference agency 
report to cross-check this income figure. It also checked Mrs Ms credit file and noted that 
shed paid a similar hire purchase agreement relatively well and that there was no other 
adverse information showing. Startline says that as Mrs Ms husband was living at the 
same address, her household would have additional income and that shed been in 
employent for over two and a half years.
Startline says that its checks were proportionate and it did not consider it was necessary 
to request further information from Mrs M about her income and expenditure. It says that 
there were no indicators in the information obtained to point towards the need for a more 
rigorous assessment. Startline says that this point demonstrates compliance with CONC 
5.2A.21G.
CONC 5.2A.21G states that certain factors might point to a more rigorous assessment 
and others towards a less rigorous one and lenders need to weigh up the factors before 
deciding what type of assessment is required. CONC 5.2A.24G follows and states that the 
exact steps taken depend on the affordability risk arising out of the agreement. CONC 
5.2A.25G then states that potential indicators that the affordability risk may be high 
include circumstances where the total value of the consumers outstanding debts relative 
to their income is high.I provisionally upheld Mrs Ms complaint because I found that Startline didnt carry out 
appropriate checks and, had it done so, it was likely to have learned that Mrs M wouldnt 
be able to meet her repayments without difficulty. Ahead of this final decision, I shared 
summary figures from Mrs Ms bank statements with Startline which show that Mrs M 
didnt have a surplus (or enough of a surplus) each month to meet these loan 
repayments.
In response to my provisional decision and information Startline said:
Mrs Ms previous hire purchase agreement was showing as settled three months 
prior to Startline accepting her application. This settled finance agreement was for 
£271.00 per month and Mrs Ms payment history demonstrated an ability to repay 
the new finance application made to Startline which was for a similar monthly rental 
amount of £277.70. It was reasonable to assume that if Mrs M could afford her 
previous finance arrangement, then she could do so with the new arrangement she 
had applied for with Startline.
Mrs Ms credit history fell in line with its risk appetite, and it evaluated her 
application in accordance with the information provided by her at the time.
Startline assessed Mrs Ms income using an industry standard proven affordability 
tool, where it could see and evaluate the income, exclusive of inter-account 
transfers. 
The funds paid into Mrs Ms account for March, April and May 2019 were 
significantly higher than the maternity pay she was receiving, which would indicate 
that she was in receipt of other forms of income. 
Mrs Ms declared expenditure within the finance application was £150.00 per 
month, which is different to the expenditure of £550 that Mrs M advised to this 
Service. Mrs M admitted to Startline that she purposely excluded information from 
her application in the attempt to obtain credit. Startline said that this deliberate 
manipulation of information reassured it that Mrs M was fully aware of the decision 
she was making in entering into the agreement. 
Four days prior to accepting and paying the agreement, a separate application was 
received by Startline for Mrs M via a different introducer (online). This application 
was declined on the basis it was not affordable for Mrs M, being a rental of £414.34 
per month. This demonstrates the effectiveness of Startlines affordability 
evaluation process and assessment criteria.
Whwn making my provisional decision, I began by reviewing the information provided by 
Startline. Mrs Ms credit file report from the time showed that she had missed payments 
on her previous hire purchase agreement and one of her existing credit cards. The two 
credit cards showing are near their limits and I can see a two year old credit card default 
with over £600 outstanding. 
I note that Startline said Mrs Ms credit history fell within its risk appetite but this doesnt 
automatically mean that her credit history didnt reveal any affordability risk to her. 
Nevertheless, Id provisionally concluded that Mrs Ms credit file information alone 
wouldnt have raised concerns for Startline to the extent it should have declined to lend to 
her and I remain of this view.
Startline highlighted that Mrs Ms credit file showed a recently settled hire purchase 
agreement which had a similar monthly repayment amount to its agreement. I had 
considered whether or not it was reasonable to lend to Mrs M on the basis that shed 
recently had a similar agreement. However, as I said in my provisional decision, Startline also needed to consider Mrs Ms circumstances when making this lending decision. Mrs M 
would be required to pay over a third of her (declared) wages each month for, potentially, 
five years to meet her repayments under the agreement. Entering into this agreement with 
Mrs M meant increasing her overall debt (as seen on her credit report) to almost twice her 
estimated salary. 
In this case, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think Startline should have 
agreed to lend to Mrs M without seeking reassurance through further checks that she 
would be able to meet her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences 
because the affordability risk to her was demonstrably high. I appreciate that Startline 
checked what Mrs M said about her income using a credit reference agency tool to 
analyse deposits into her bank account. However, I think it needed to do more in this 
case, given the risk, to check that Mrs M was actually in receipt of the income shed 
declared. 
Furthermore, I dont think it was reasonable or proportionate for Startline to have 
assumed anything about how household income or expenses were shared. Startline says 
that Mrs M wasnt truthful in what shed said at the time about her expenses  shed 
declared a total monthly expenditure of £150. I dont think it was proportionate of Startline 
to have relied on what Mrs M said about her expenses, given that the repayments would 
have a significant impact on her monthly wages. And I dont think that the information 
Mrs M declared at the time negates the requirement for Startline to have assessed the 
risk to her of not managing to meet her repayments.
Altogether, I remain of the view that Startlines checks werent proportionate on this 
occasion. 
Ive reviewed information provided by Mrs M including what shes told us about her 
circumstances to understand what proportionate checks would likely have revealed about 
her ability to meet her repayments. Mrs M explained that shed just returned to work from 
maternity leave and her first months pay was in July 2019. Shes provided her July payslip 
which confirms this and shows her basic pay as £857 before tax. Mrs M also provided her 
bank statements for the three months preceding the agreement, March to May 2019. These 
confirm that Mrs M was in receipt of statutory maternity pay of less than £600 a month.
The bank statements also show that Mrs M spent an average of over £150 a month over 
this period repaying credit and store cards and buy-now-pay-later purchases. There are 
other identifiable costs such as gym membership, petrol and food, along with payments to 
her partner which Mrs M says were contributions to rent, food and purchases for their 
child. There are also what appear to be clothes purchases and cash withdrawals. In 
summary, I can see that Mrs M was spending what she earned and I dont think further 
checks would have provided any reassurance to Startline that she would be able to meet 
her repayments without difficulty. 
As mentioned, ahead of this final decision, I shared monthly summary figures from 
Mrs Ms bank statements with Startline which shows that Mrs M didnt have a surplus (or 
enough of a surplus) each month to meet these loan repayments. Startline says that the 
funds paid into Mrs Ms account for March, April and May 2019 were significantly higher 
than the maternity pay the customer was receiving, which would indicate that she was in 
receipt of other forms of income. 
Ive looked again at Mrs Ms bank statements from the months before the agreement 
began and can see that the deposits into her account comprised her maternity pay, 
transfers in from two people and ad-hoc Paypal payments. Mrs M says the transfers were 
loans from her husband and her mother, and I can see that she returns this money each month, usually in a lump sum following her maternity pay deposit. There are two 
anomalous cash withdrawals in these months following transfers, which Mrs M said was 
paid towards rent or household costs. Mrs M explained that she sold her clothes and other 
possessions through various online sites and was paid through Paypal. She said I was 
selling my clothes, bags, gifts I had off people in the past on these accounts to make any 
money I could.
Mrs M has been consistent in what shes said about her circumstances at the time and her 
mental health issues, and I am persuaded that she didnt have another source of income. It 
seems to me she borrowed money and sold items, but this doesnt mean she had additional 
income available to meet her loan repayments and, from the information available, I cant 
see that Mrs M clearly indicated that she would utilise assets to meet her repayments. (see 
CONC 5.2A.12R).  Mrs M was the sole borrower and responsible for her loan payments and 
I remain of the view that the loan was not sustainable for her. 
Ive noted what Startline said about declining a previous application from Mrs M where the 
repayments would have been £414 a month  I dont know the details of that application 
so I dont know what factors influenced that decline. As Ive explained, I think  
proportionate checks would likely have shown that Mrs M would potentially be spending 
half her basic monthly pay on repaying existing debt plus this agreement, and would be 
taking on the additional cost of running a car alongside her other costs which Ive 
mentioned above. I dont think Startline would have agreed credit for her under these 
circumstances, and so I find it was irresponsible to have done so
As explained above, Mrs M fell into arrears almost immediately and within six months the 
agreement was cancelled and the car was repossessed. Mrs M has been left owing a 
significant sum having had the use of the car for a short time, and her credit file is likely to 
have been adversely impacted. I think these consequences for Mrs M were foreseeable, 
and Startline needs to take steps to put things right for her.
Putting things right
Startline says that the car was recovered on 24 October 2019 and had been driven over 
5,200 miles since the agreement began. The account history shows that Mrs M paid a 
deposit of £300, a monthly payment of £278 and a card payment of £40, which amounts 
to £618 in total. 
Mrs M had the use of the car for almost five months and I currently think that the amount 
shes paid, about £124 a month, is a fair charge for her use of the car. So I dont think its fair 
that Startline refunds anything to Mrs M as I think she would have incurred some costs to 
stay mobile.
In summary, to put things right for Mrs M Startline should:
a) Remove the outstanding balance owing and consider the debt settled; and
b) Remove any adverse information about this finance agreement from Mrs Ms 
credit file.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint about Startline Motor 
Finance Limited and require that it put things right for her as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman