DRN-3309144
The complaint
Ms A, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
Ms A also says that she often had more than one loan running at the same time which 
meant she had to keep borrowing money to repay the loans.
 
What happened
Ms A was advanced eight home collected loans between May 2017 and February 2020. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 09/05/2017 29/09/2017 33 £5.00
2 £100.00 16/06/2017 12/01/2018 33 £5.00
3 £100.00 29/09/2017 20/04/2018 33 £5.00
4 £200.00 12/01/2018 23/11/2018 33 £10.00
5 £100.00 20/04/2018 30/11/2018 33 £5.00
6 £150.00 14/03/2019 25/10/2019 33 £7.50
7 £100.00 14/06/2019 13/12/2019 33 £5.00
8 £150.00 07/02/2020 28/08/2020 34 £7.50
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where 
loans overlapped the cost per week was increased, for example when loans 1 and 2 were 
running at the same time Ms As weekly commitment to Morses was £10. 
Following Ms As complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold her complaint. Ms As representative didnt accept the outcome and referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he didnt uphold it. He said, Morses made a 
reasonable decision to provide loans 1  4. However, he thought from loan 5 Morses needed 
to have carried out more in-depth-checks but he hadnt seen anything to suggest these later 
loans were unaffordable for her. Finally, he didnt think the pattern of lending was harmful for 
Ms A. 
Morses didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Ms As representative didnt agree with the outcome and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
The adjudicator went back to Ms As representative and again asked for copies of
Ms As bank statements. But Ms As representative told us no further information could be 
provided. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms A could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms As 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms A. These factors include:
Ms A having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms A having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms A coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms A.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms A could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms A was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms As complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan, Ms A declared she had a weekly income of £164 and she declared weekly 
outgoings of £130. This left, Ms A £34 per week in disposable income to be able to afford the 
contractual repayment of £5 per week. 
Based solely, on the income and expenditure it was reasonable for Morses to have believed 
that Ms A would be able to afford the repayments. Morses has also said for the first loan only, it carried out a credit search and it has provided 
the Financial Ombudsman Service with the results that it received from the credit reference 
agency. 
It is worth saying that there is no requirement within the regulations at the time to have 
carried out a credit search let alone one to a specific standard. But what Morses couldnt do 
is carry out a credit search and then not react to any concerning information that it may have 
seen. 
Looking at the credit file data provided by Morses Im satisfied that while it was aware of 
some adverse information it wasnt, in my view sufficient for Morses to either decline the 
application or to have prompted it to have carried out further, more in-depth checks. The 
results showed the following;
Ms A had 10 active accounts. 
Just under £4,000 of other debt.
Two new credit accounts had been opened within the last six months.
Zero defaults and no other evidence of insolvency.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable to have provided this loan based on the information 
that Ms A declared as well as the information within the credit report. 
Im therefore not upholding Ms As complaint about this loan. 
Loans 2 - 4
For these loans Morses carried out similar checks as it did for loan 1. It asked 
Ms A for her income which she declared to be between £164 and £171 per week. 
She also declared weekly outgoings of between £85 and £135. This left Ms A with 
disposable weekly income of between £40 and £80 per week. Which was sufficient to be 
able to afford the largest combined weekly repayment due to Morses of £10. 
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship and there didnt appear to have 
been any repayment problems to date, I think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on 
the information Ms A provided which showed the loan repayments were affordable. 
Importantly, Morses didnt carry out a credit check before these loans were approved. But as 
Ive said above, Morses wasnt required to carry out such a search before each loan, so the 
fact one wasnt carried out here isnt something I can say is an error. 
As a credit search wasnt carried out, I think the checks for these loans were proportionate 
and showed Ms A was able to afford the loan repayments.
Ive also thought about the fact that some of these loans overlapped, but even taking into 
account the higher weekly repayments as a result of this these loans, they still looked 
affordable for Ms A. So, this doesnt change my mind about the checks that Morses carried 
out. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms As complaint about loans 2 - 4.
Loans 5 - 8It is worth noting for these loans, there is a break in lending of around four months between 
Ms A repaying loan 5 and taking out loan 6. Ive thought about this in the overall context of 
the borrowing, but whether this gap was there (or not) doesnt make any difference to the 
findings that Ive made about these loans. 
For loan 5, Ms A declared she had a weekly income of £176 with outgoings of £113 which 
gave Ms A disposal weekly amount of around £115 to meet her repayment of £15 per week. 
Miss B also declared the same income for loans 6  8 and a similar amount of weekly 
outgoings of between £92 to £119.  This may have then led Morses to believe that Ms A had 
sufficient disposable income and could afford the loan repayments she was committed to 
making.  
Given what we know, it looks like for these loans Ms As income was checked with a credit 
reference agency. But no other credit searches were carried out when these loans were 
approved. 
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. Given by loan 5 it was 
now the second time that Ms A had taken a new loan on the same date that a previous loan 
had been repaid. As well, as her overall indebtedness and weekly commitments increasing, 
her weekly repayments at this point were now £15 per week. 
In addition, Ms A had now been continuously indebted to Morses with no break for almost a 
year, so I think by now Morses needed to go beyond the checks it had carried out for loan 5 
 as well as the later loans. 
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have solely relied on what Ms A 
declared to it about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Ms 
A could afford the loan repayments. 
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms As actual financial position to 
ensure loan 5 and all later loans were affordable for her. This couldve been done in several 
ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements.
The further checks mightve helped verify Ms As declared income and expenditure and 
possibly revealed whether there was any other information that Morses mightve needed to 
consider about Ms As general financial position. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the complaint about 
these loans, I would have to be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it 
wouldve likely discovered that Ms A couldnt afford the loans. 
Ms As representative was asked to provide copies of Ms As bank statements, but the 
representative informed us that no further information or evidence could be supplied to 
support the complaint.  
Without the further information the adjudicator requested, Ive been unable to build a 
complete and accurate picture of what Ms As financial position may have been at the time 
these loans were provided. 
So, in the absences of the information about Ms As living costs and income, its difficult for 
me to conclude what Morses wouldve likely seen had it made better checks. Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further 
checks wouldve led it to conclude this loan was unaffordable for Ms A. 
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest 
Morses shouldnt have lent loans 5  8, even considering what Ms A declared to Morses for 
her income and expenditure. Im therefore concluding it was reasonable of Morses to provide 
this lending. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman