DRN-2693402
The complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan granted to him by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn). He says that the loan was unaffordable for him and Moneybarn would have 
known this had it carried out adequate checks beforehand. 
What happened
Moneybarn agreed credit for Mr M on 27 May 2019 via an intermediary in order for him to 
acquire a car. The cash price of the car, as per the agreement, was £10,970. I understand 
that Mr M didnt pay a deposit or an advance payment. The total amount owing under the 
agreement, including £9,646 interest and charges, came to £20,616. This was to be repaid 
by 59 instalments of £349 (all figures rounded). 
The credit was granted under a conditional sale agreement meaning Mr M would own the 
car when the credit had been repaid. Moneybarn was the owner until that point and Mr M 
was, in essence, paying for the use of it. 
I can see from the account history that Mr M made his first eleven payments on time. 
Moneybarn agreed a payment holiday for him in mid-2020 for a few months, and again in 
November, after which Mr M resumed his payments. I understand these payment breaks 
were in response to Mr M losing income during the pandemic. 
Mr M says that Moneybarn should not have agreed to lend to him because he couldnt afford 
to meet the repayments. He says that he was dependent on credit at that time and 
Moneybarn wouldnt have agreed to lend to him if it had carried out further checks, given his 
perilous financial situation. Moneybarn says that it undertook suitable checks to ensure the 
loan was affordable for Mr M and that it wasnt irresponsible to have agreed it.
Our investigator looked into what happened when Mr Ms loan was agreed and found that 
Moneybarn had been irresponsible to enter into an agreement with him. They recommended 
that Mr Ms complaint be upheld and proposed that Moneybarn end the agreement, take 
back the car and pay him some compensation. 
While Mr M agreed with the assessment he didnt agree with our investigators proposals for 
putting things right for him. Mr M would like to retain the car and reduce the amount he owes 
under the agreement to the capital borrowed, in other words the cash price of the car. This 
would mean a new arrangement with Moneybarn to repay the capital balance outstanding. 
Mr M says that he cannot be without the car but he is sinking further into debt trying to meet 
his repayments. He asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and 
resolve and so it has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time and, having considered everything carefully, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Moneybarn and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why I have 
come to this conclusion.
Moneybarn needed to check that Mr M could afford to meet his repayments without 
difficulty before agreeing credit for him. In other words, it needed to check he could repay 
the credit out of his usual income without having to borrow further, while meeting his 
existing obligations and without the payments having a significant adverse impact on his 
financial situation. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and 
Mr Ms circumstances, and Moneybarn needed to take proper account of the information it 
gathered. The overarching requirement for Moneybarn is that it needed to pay due regard 
to Mr Ms interests and treat him fairly.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Moneybarn complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms application to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments wihout experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Moneybarn says that its creditworthiness assessment requires a consumer to provide either 
recent payslips or recent bank statements spanning a two-month period to evidence
their income. It says that, alternatively, it uses an income valiation tool provided by a Credit 
Reference Agency (CRA) which I understand happened in this case. Moneybarn says that it 
checked Mr Ms credit file for indebtedness and existing financial commitments, though it 
wasnt able to provide either the results or a summary of them. And it relied on statistical 
datasets to estimate Mr Ms expenses. Moneybarn says that after reviewing the information 
it concluded that the credit would be affordable for Mr M.
Let me start by saying that this approach might constitute a proportionate check in some 
circumstances. In this case, Im afraid I dont consider it did. While I appreciate that 
Moneybarn may have used a CRA report to cross-check Mr Ms income level, I cant see 
that it took steps to verify that he was in receipt of such an income each month. Ive 
reviewed a copy of Mr Ms credit file which shows he was repaying a large loan from a high 
cost credit company at £400 a month. He had defaulted on seven running accounts in the 
previous six months which ought to have alerted Moneybarn to the possibility that Mr M was 
having problems managing his existing debts. And, altogether, Im not sure statistical data 
was likely to have been representative of Mr Ms circumstances. Given the level of 
repayment required over five years, I think Moneybarn needed to do more here to 
adequately assess the risk to Mr M of not being able to meet his repayments over the term.
Mr M has provided statements for his joint bank account, a sole bank account and a savings 
account and, as mentioned, his credit file. Our investigator reviewed these and concluded 
that he would not be able to afford this credit without getting into difficulty. Moneybarn had 
also looked at Mr Ms joint account statements in response to his complaint and said that it 
was reasonable to assume that some of his expenses were his wifes and it noted transfers 
to and from other accounts. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ms bank statements for his joint account. His income was approximately 
£2,000 a month, his wifes income was less than this and they received child benefit 
allowance. It seems to me the transfers between accounts were a way of managing money 
and I havent seen indications of any other income. Taking into account all of the expenses 
(except Mr Ms sole debts) and assuming these were split evenly between the couple, I can 
see that it wasnt likely Mr M would have enough money to meet repayments on this new 
agreement each month without running into problems. As mentioned, I think the number of recent defaults Mr M had indicted wider financial problems. I dont think Moneybarn would 
have agreed credit for him at this point, had it carried out a proportionate check, and so Ive 
found that it was irresponsible to have entered into this agreement with him.
I appreciate that Mr M managed to meet his payments for almost a year before raising 
concerns about being able to pay during the pandemic. However, in this case I dont think its 
reasonable to conclude that successfully meeting repayments meant that Mr M was able to 
do so without undue difficulty and having returned to his normal monthly payments, Mr Ms 
difficulties have continued. Mr M says I am struggling to make repayments every month and 
I am getting further in debt with the fear if I lose the car I will lose my job as I cannot get to 
work without it. I am so stressed by all of this I cannot sleep at night with worry.
In summary, Ive found that Moneybarn was irresponsible when it entered into this 
agreement with Mr M and it needs to take steps to put things right for him. 
Putting things right
The credit agreement has been running for over two years and I understand from Mr M that 
hes kept up his payments, apart from the payment holidays I mentioned. Mr M says that 
hes paid over £7,000 so far. 
Mr M has explained that he is struggling to meet his repayments but that he needs to have a 
car for work and wishes to retain this one, due to its reliability. As mentioned, he would like 
to repay the capital amount only and hold on to the car. I can understand Mr Ms wishes and 
let me say at this point that I am sorry hes having such a difficult time. My decision deals 
with whats gone wrong regarding the current agreement so Ive set out below what I think 
needs to happen to put this right. Mr M doesnt have to accept this decision and it would then 
be up to him and Moneybarn to come to a mutually agreeable resolution. 
In order to redress Moneybarns error and put Mr M back into the position he would have 
been in prior to the agreement, Moneybarn first needs to cancel it. Moneybarn remains the 
owner of the vehicle, but because I dont think the agreement should have been set up it 
needs to refund the payments Mr M made under it. I think its fair that Moneybarn retains a 
portion of Mr Ms payments because he has had the use of the car for about 27 months and 
its likely he would have incurred costs to stay mobile.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair proportion of Mr Ms payment might 
reflect his usage of the car. Ive noted that there havent been any problems with the car 
which might have impaired Mr Ms use of it. Ive considered the cash price of the car, the 
amount of interest charged on the agreement, how the agreement was structured and the 
likelihood of the car having decreased in value since the agreements inception.  
Our investigator recommended a fair usage charge of £150 per month, which amounts to 
just over £4,000 for 27 months usage. Mr M feels this amount should be £100 at most to 
reflect what he considers to be the true depreciation of the car considering current prices for 
comparable vehicles. However, as Ive explained above this isnt the only thing Ive taken 
into account when considering what a fair usage charge would be. Having carefully thought 
about everything, I think £150 per month is a fair and reasonable proportion of Mr Ms 
payments for Moneybarn to retain. 
In summary, to put things right for Mr M Moneybarn should:a) End the agreement with nothing further for Mr M to pay; and
b) Refund any payments Mr M has made minus a fair usage charge of £150 a month for 
the months Mr Ms had the use of the car; and
c) Remove all adverse information about this finance agreement from Mr Ms credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
This is my final decision on this complaint. It will be legally binding on both parties if 
Mr M chooses to accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
and require it to put things right for him as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman