DRN-2037952
The complaint
This complaint is about the compensation offered by Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as 
Halifax, for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) policies attached to two credit 
card accounts.
What happened
The executors of Mr Hs estate complained to BoS about the sale of two PPI policies 
attached to credit card accounts. BoS agreed to uphold the complaint and offered to pay 
compensation totalling £26,681.62 for the mis-sales.  The executors of Mr Hs estate werent 
happy with the offer made by BoS and complained to BoS about this. But BoS didnt uphold 
the complaint  it thought the offer had been calculated fairly. 
The executors of Mr Hs estate then referred their complaint to this service. Our adjudicator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought BoS offer was fair and had been 
calculated in the way wed expect. 
The executors of Mr Hs estate didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS has already agreed to uphold the complaint and pay compensation for the mis-sale of 
the PPI policies to Mr H. So I havent looked into how the PPI policies came to be sold. Ive 
only looked at what BoS has done to put things right. 
In doing this, Ive considered the specific reasons that the executors of Mr Hs estate have 
given for still having concerns about BoS compensation offer following the adjudicators 
view. But I wont repeat the answers given by the adjudicator to all the specific points the 
executors raised in originally referring their complaint to us. I say this because many of these 
points simply needed clarification on how the card accounts operated - including how 
interest was applied and which card numbers were associated with them. And I think the 
adjudicator has already given an adequate explanation in relation to these.
For BoS to adequately compensate Mr Hs estate for these mis-sales Id expect it, as far as 
is possible, to put the estate in the position it would have been in if the sales hadnt taken 
place. To do this Id expect BoS to refund the full cost of these policies, including any 
additional interest or fees incurred by Mr H because of them. Id also expect BoS to pay 
simple interest for any times when this cost caused Mr H or his estate to be out of pocket (at 
15% for the period up to 1 April 1993 and 8% thereafter). 
For credit card mis-sales like these ones, this requires the business to undertake a notional 
reconstruction of the consumers card account(s) on the assumption that the PPI hadnt 
been added.  And where, as is the case here, the business doesnt have all the information it 
needs to undertake the necessary detailed calculations, we expect it to make reasonable 
assumptions to estimate any missing data - based on what is known about how the account 
was normally conducted by the consumer. 
Credit card account ending 2411 (including replaced cards ending 9918 and 5399)
This card account and related PPI policy were opened in 1988. The account was charged 
off shortly after Mr Hs death in 2011, following which no further interest, fees or PPI 
premiums were applied to it. At that point, there was a balance still outstanding on the 
account of £9,776.20. From the statements Ive seen since then, this outstanding balance 
does not appear to have been subsequently cleared or used to offset the compensation offer 
made by BoS.
BoS has provided us with all the statement information which it says it still retains for this 
account. The earliest available statement is for January 1993 and there are some more 
minor gaps in statement data thereafter. But this isnt that surprising given how long ago the 
account was opened. Businesses arent required to keep this sort of information for such a 
long time.
In order to estimate the monthly balances and related PPI premiums on Mr Hs account from 
1988 to 1993 (with and without PPI), BoS has assumed that the monthly balances gradually 
built up over this period of time. This methodology takes account of the fact that, from the 
information we do have, Mr H doesnt appear to have consistently made maximum or 
minimum monthly repayments on this account. 
The methodology BoS has applied is what this service would expect BoS to use in these 
circumstances. Ive reviewed the detailed calculations which BoS has provided using this 
methodology. Having done so, Im satisfied that it has calculated the compensation offer its 
made fairly. So I dont think it needs to do any more.
In requesting an ombudsmans decision on this complaint, the executors of Mr Hs estate 
have said they still think 15% simple interest should have been added to the refund due for 
the period to 1 April 1993. But Ive already concluded that reasonable assumptions were 
used by BoS to calculate the estimated monthly balances on Mr Hs account where these 
arent known. And had he not been sold the PPI policy, these calculations show that Mr Hs 
account would have remained with a balance owing from its commencement in 1988 to April 
1993. So I dont think Mr Hs estate needs to be compensated by the application of 15% 
simple interest because, on the assumptions used by BoS, he still  wouldnt have been in 
credit on his account at any before 1993 if he hadnt been mis-sold PPI. 
Credit card account ending 0395 (including replacement card ending 3930)
This card account and related PPI policy were opened in 2001. The account was charged 
off shortly after Mr Hs death in 2011, following which no further interest, fees or PPI 
premiums were applied to it. At that point, there was a balance still outstanding on the 
account of £10,464.85. This outstanding balance does not appear to have been 
subsequently cleared or used to offset the compensation offer made by BoS.
BoS has provided us with all the statement information which it says it still retains for this 
account. In this case, monthly statements are available from March 2002, with only the first 
four statements missing.
In order to estimate the monthly balances and related PPI premiums on Mr Hs account from 
November 2001 until February 2002 (with and without PPI), BoS has, once again, assumed that the monthly balances gradually built up over this relatively short period of time. And, as 
before, this methodology takes account of the fact that, from the information we do have, 
Mr H doesnt appear to have consistently made maximum or minimum monthly repayments 
on this account. 
The methodology BoS has applied is what this service would expect BoS to use in these 
circumstances. Ive reviewed the detailed calculations which BoS has provided using this 
methodology. Having done so, Im satisfied that it has calculated the compensation offer its 
made fairly. So I dont think it needs to do any more.
Finally, Ive considered whether the mis-sale of the PPI policies can be said to have resulted 
in additional costs to Mr H, which the methodology used by BoS does not take account of. 
This might be the case, for example, if what Mr H paid for the PPI resulted in him incurring 
additional costs on other borrowings hed taken out. But excluding the simple interest which 
BoS added to its compensation offer, the total amount outstanding on Mr Hs credit card 
accounts when they were charged off in 2011 appears to have been significantly higher than 
the total cost of the PPI policies to that point. So I dont think it would be reasonable to 
conclude on the available information that the mis-sale of these policies resulted in Mr H 
incurring additional borrowing costs on other lending products he may have held during this 
time.
 
In summary, from what Ive seen I think that the total compensation offer from BoS had been 
calculated fairly using methodologies which we would expect in these circumstances. This 
means that I wont be asking BoS to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and the 
estate of Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman