DRN-4197994
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Sky UK Limited is reporting a fixed sum loan agreement 
on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Sky in October 2022 to purchase a 
device. Mr M noticed the loan was showing as a telecommunications account on his credit 
file. He thinks this is causing a negative impact on his credit score which has meant hes 
been unable to obtain credit at a preferential rate. 
After receiving a complaint from Mr M, Sky responded to say it was satisfied with the way it 
reported the credit agreement. Mr M didnt agree, so he referred his complaint to our service 
to consider. Sky said that as the credit could only be used to purchase a device it wouldnt 
amend the information. 
One of our investigators looked into things and said the agreement was a fixed sum loan and 
not a telecommunications agreement. So he said Sky should report it as a loan agreement. 
Mr M accepted the recommendations. But highlighted hed lost out as a result of the error 
through higher interest rates when taking out credit. Our investigator said hed not seen 
evidence thered been a negative impact on Mr Ms credit file or that the reporting had 
caused any detriment. So he didnt make any recommendations for that part of the 
complaint. Mr M accepted what our investigator said but reiterated he could have obtained a 
better interest rate. 
Sky said it was working through a resolution with one of the credit reference agencies. But 
weve not received an update since. As things couldnt be resolved the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has complained about the way Sky is reporting a fixed sum loan on his credit file. This 
is a regulated consumer credit agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints 
relating to these sorts of agreements. 
As a starting point, I agree that, in the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, the fixed sum 
loan agreement should be reported to the credit reference agencies as a loan. I dont think it 
matters whether it is restricted credit or not. Its a credit agreement, and not a 
telecommunications account. Sky is required to report accurate information to the credit 
reference agencies, so I think it needs to amend what its reporting. And it should do this in a 
timely manner. 
Ive also thought about what Mr M said in relation to losing out on a better rate when 
borrowing as a result of Skys reporting. While I can understand why hes concerned, like our 
investigator pointed out, Ive not seen enough to show that the way Sky reported the 
agreement has directly caused a financial loss for him. So I dont have the grounds to direct 
Sky to reimburse Mr M for extra interest he says hes lost out on. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Sky UK Limited to amend the 
reporting on Mr Ms fixed sum loan agreement with the credit reference agencies from a 
telecommunications account to a loan agreement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman