DRN-1226143
 
The complaint
 Mr K complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold him a payment protection insurance ("PPI") 
policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management company.
Although the policy was sold by another business, the complaint was set up initially against 
Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") as they were the underwriters of the policy 
and had accepted responsibility for these sorts of sales. So the adjudicator sent out her view 
with the complaint set up against FICL. However, FICL has now transferred its insurance 
business to AXA France IARD ("AXA"). Therefore, the complaint has now been set up 
against AXA.
So I'll only refer to AXA in the rest of my decision. 
What happened 
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mr K took out in October 
1995. It was sold in store and covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr K didn't agree 
saying, in summary, that:
When he took out the store card, PPI wasn't mentioned and no features were 
discussed. If he ticked the box, it was because the salesperson told him to - and he 
was young and naive at the time so would have done as he was asked to make sure 
he got the store card.
He has had two other PPI complaints upheld. The PPI here was also mis-sold. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mr K aware that the PPI was optional and get his consent before adding 
PPI. Mr K says nothing was discussed and he was probably just told to tick the box and sign. 
As this happened many years ago, I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The credit card application form included a separate section headed Payment Protection" 
and included equally clear options to accept or decline the PPI. Mr K ticked the "Yes" box to 
confirm that he wanted it. I cant say what was discussed, if anything, at the time of the application, but I think the paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional and I think it 
wouldve been reasonable to expect Mr K to check over the document he was signing - even 
though he was quite young at the time. The section about PPI was relatively brief, so I think 
Mr K would have still been able to do this even though the card and PPI were taken out in a 
store. So, overall, I think AXA made Mr K aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to 
take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr K got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ks circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As he couldve benefited 
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about these things 
wouldve affected his decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI was affordable and he 
couldve cancelled it at any time. 
Overall, I dont think Mr K has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done wrong.
I've taken into account what Mr K has said about two of his other PPI complaints being 
upheld. But I've looked into the circumstances when he took out this policy with this business 
- and the outcome of his other complaints does not change my conclusion here.
 My final decision
 For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman