DRN-3099510
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K  Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with his building society.
On 27 February 2020, Mr S travelled abroad to a country Ill call P. He travelled by car and 
ferry and he was towing a caravan. Mr S intended to return to the UK on 27 April 2020 and 
he had extended travel insurance cover.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 14 March 2020, Ps government placed the country into lockdown, which 
included restrictions on movement. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised UK 
nationals against all but essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised 
all UK nationals who were abroad to return to the UK.
Mr S said that due to the strict lockdown in P, he remained where he was. He booked a ferry 
to return to the UK in July 2020. However, while driving through P, he had a car accident and 
therefore couldnt make the ferry. He also wasnt able to hire a new car. So a relative 
travelled to P to collect Mr S and his travelling party. Mr S made a claim on his policy for the 
costs associated with his return to the UK. He told us these included his relatives travel 
expenses and hotel costs.
UKI turned down Mr S claim. It said that as Mr S hadnt attempted to return to the UK 
following the FCDOs advice on 23 March 2020 and he hadnt called its assistance line or 
contacted the British Embassy, there was no cover under the policy. However, it 
acknowledged that it hasnt handled the claim as well as it couldve done and so it paid Mr S 
£250 compensation to recognise its poor claims handling.
Mr S was unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She noted that Mr S trip 
extension had ended on 5 May 2020, so there was no cover in place in July 2020. And she 
didnt think there was any evidence to show Mr S had tried to return prior to that date. So 
she felt itd been fair for UKI to turn down his claim.
Mr S disagreed. In summary, he said the border between P and its neighbouring countries 
had been closed on 14 March 2020, so if he had travelled, he mightve got stuck in another 
country. The lockdown in P had been very strict and breaches of the restrictions couldve led 
to arrest, especially as he was travelling with pets. Hed researched the situation as a result 
of the claim and hed found online information from the British Ambassador which said a) the 
UK citizens in P had to follow local restrictions and b) that UK citizens who resided in P for 
part of the year should remain there. He said hed booked the earliest ferry he could. And he 
wouldnt have put in a claim if UKI hadnt told him to do so.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down his 
claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
circumstances of Mr S claim and the terms of his policy to decide whether UKI treated him 
fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr S 
contract with UKI. In this case, theres no dispute that Mr S didnt cancel or cut short his trip 
 instead, it was extended because of Covid-19. Theres no section of the policy which 
provides cover for a policyholders additional costs if their trip has to be extended because of 
lockdown restrictions being imposed by a national government.
In this case, I understand Mr S had taken a travel extension and the cover length had been 
extended until 5 May 2020. Ive also thought about what hes told us about the strict 
restrictions which applied in P and the practical reasons why he chose not to try and return 
to the UK early. But after the FCDO advice changed on 23 March 2020, I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for Mr S to contact UKI to discuss his situation and whether or not he would 
be covered if he chose to remain in P until travel restarted. If hed done so, I think UKI 
wouldve told Mr S that he wouldnt be covered if he decided against at least attempting to 
return. It also mightve been in a position to provide Mr S with information about making 
return travel arrangements or to look into them for him. And while Mr S has provided internet 
information from the British Ambassador, theres no evidence that he contacted the 
Embassy at the relevant time to see if it could provide any suggestions or means of transport 
for Mr S and his party. Again, I think this wouldve been a reasonable step for him to take.
On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for UKI to conclude that Mr S didnt have any 
insurance cover in place at the time of his claim.
Ive also considered the fact that Mr S claim seems to actually flow from the accident he had 
in July 2020 which meant he missed his booked return ferry. Mr Ss cover for this trip under 
this policy actually ended in May 2020. And, even if Mr Ss policy had run until July 2020, 
when the accident occurred, I dont think many of the costs he is claiming for would be 
covered under the terms and conditions of his policy anyway. The missed departure section 
of Mr Ss policy provides cover in the following situations:
We will pay up to £1,000 (£500 for trips inside your home area) for each insured person for 
reasonable extra accommodation and travel costs if you fail to arrive at your point of 
departure or connection in time to board your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train.
Reasons for missed departure or connection
1. Public transport delay: the delay of scheduled public transport (not taxis) in which 
you are travelling to your departure point.
2. Car accident or breakdown: the vehicle in which you are travelling being involved 
in an accident or breaking down.3. Traffic delay: the vehicle in which you are travelling being delayed by heavy traffic 
or road closures severe enough to be reported through a
recognised media channel.
This cover applies to your outward and return journeys and any pre-booked transport during 
your trip. (Bold is my emphasis).
An insured person is defined as: The account holder their partner, any dependent child and 
any guest. A guest is defined as a: UK resident who is travelling with the account holder on 
a trip, but is not the account holders partner or a dependent child and a Guest Upgrade has 
been paid for.
As Ive set out above, much of Mr S claim appears to have been for his relatives costs after 
they travelled out to P in July 2020 to help Mr S get back to the UK following the accident. As 
such, I dont think they could fairly be considered to be travelling with Mr S on his trip. And 
neither party has indicated that a guest upgrade was paid for. So even if Id concluded UKI 
ought to look at the claim, while missed departure due to a car accident is covered, I dont 
find that Mr S relatives costs wouldve been covered under this section of the policy. 
Overall then, in these circumstances, I dont think UKI acted unfairly when it concluded Mr S 
claim wasnt covered.
It's clear though that UKI didnt handle the claim as well as it couldve. It accepts that it 
shouldve told Mr S upfront that a claim wouldnt be payable. Instead, it put Mr S to time and 
trouble in submitting his claim documents and in then needing to chase up the progress of 
the claim. I dont doubt how frustrating this mustve been for Mr S. So I think it was 
appropriate for UKI to acknowledge the inconvenience and trouble it caused Mr S and to pay 
him compensation. Based on all Ive seen, Im satisfied £250 compensation was a fair 
amount to recognise the upset UKIs handling of the claim had caused Mr S. So I was 
pleased to see that UKI has already paid Mr S this amount.
All in all then, I dont find that UKI needs to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman