DRN-4329288
The complaint
Mr G complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) didnt reimburse him for 
the cost of repairs to his damaged drain.
What happened
Mr G had home emergency cover, underwritten by RSA. He claimed under the policy for a 
blocked external drain. Mr G arranged for the drain to be cleared, and then he contacted 
RSA to authorise more extensive repairs. RSA agreed to review the additional costs on 
receipt of confirmation of the charges. 
RSA agreed to pay for Mr Gs contractors cost of clearing the drain, but it declined his 
request for payment of the more extensive work, including further drain unblocking, removing 
tree roots and repairing/replacing the broken drain. RSA declined the rest of the claim, 
stating that the policy didnt provide cover for permanent repairs.
Mr G was unhappy with RSAs response. He said RSA had agreed to reimburse the cost of 
unblocking the drain when he called for authorisation. Mr G said that was confirmed in its 
email to him asking for proof of the costs. Further, he said his policy covered both 
emergency and non-emergency repairs, so RSA should pay for the replacement drain. Mr G 
complained to RSA.
RSA looked into Mr Gs complaint and issued a final response declining the claim. It offered 
£100 for the full cost of clearing the initial blockage, and £150 by way of apology for the 
delay of five months from claim to decision. But RSA didnt agree that there was cover under 
the policy for the permanent repair. Mr G brought his complaint to us.
To begin with, our investigator thought RSA should pay more compensation for the delays. 
However, on reconsideration following comments from both RSA and Mr G, she decided that 
RSA had responded to Mr Gs claim fairly. Our investigator didnt think RSA needed to do 
any more.
Mr G disagreed. He repeated the key pieces of evidence which he thought supported his 
claim, and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint, and Ill explain why.
Ive summarised Mr Gs complaint, above, without repeating all the detail. Thats because 
both parties are aware of the circumstances. Here, Ill focus on the key issues of complaint 
and refer to the evidence which best helps me explain the reasons for my decision.
First blockage removal
RSA offered to reimburse Mr G for the cost of the first blockage removal. Its offer is for the 
full amount and in line with the policy. Therefore, Im satisfied that this cost is not in dispute. 
Ill address the issue of whether the blockage was cleared in my next point.
Reimbursement of expenses
Mr G complains that RSA declined his claim after already agreeing to reimburse his second 
blockage removal expenses. RSA denies agreeing to cover the cost because the drain was 
cleared on the first occasion. Mr G doesnt agree that it was cleared.
In Mr Gs own submission, he states, [the contractor] managed to rupture the blockage so 
that the water started seeping slowly and the flooding stopped.
The contractors invoice for the work states: 
used high pressure water to clear a blocked drain
Mr G went on to say the contractor recommended flushing away the blockage material with a 
larger nozzle.
Im satisfied that RSA fairly relied on this evidence to conclude that the initial blockage was 
cleared sufficiently to allow water to drain. Turning to the policy, I note it doesnt provide 
cover for permanent repairs where a temporary fix has been made:
Where a repair has been carried out, the onus will be upon you to carry out repairs or 
work to permanently resolve the reason for the emergency occurring. Should you fail 
to carry out the permanent repair a contractor will not be appointed to undertake any 
further repairs.
Therefore, RSA had no further liability under the home emergency policy.
Moving on, Ive considered the phone call between RSA and Mr G, and the email 
confirmation of what was discussed, regarding the expenses. While Mr G thinks RSA agreed 
to pay the expenses, I dont agree. RSA committed to reviewing the expenses for 
reimbursement, which is not the same as agreeing to pay them. It asked for Mr Gs bank 
details to speed up the process should it accept his request for payment.
While I accept that there may have been a misunderstanding regarding what RSA meant by 
agreeing to review the expenses, I dont consider it reasonable to expect payment when the 
repair isnt covered under the policy.
I also note that Mr G said RSA authorised the work, but I dont think thats the case. In the phone call, I heard RSA explain that the permanent repair would need doing anyway so Mr 
G should go ahead. That would be regardless of whether it accepted liability for the costs on 
review. 
As the evidence doesnt show that RSA authorised the work or agreed to pay the costs, I 
dont find that RSA did anything wrong by declining cover for the further blockage removal 
costs.
Authorisation for drain replacement
The drain was broken in several places and needed replacing. Mr G obtained a quote and 
submitted it to RSA for authorisation to proceed. Mr G chased responses on a number of 
occasions but had little response.
The evidence confirms that the drain was blocked and/or damaged by large tree roots. Mr G 
looked into claiming under his home insurance, but he said it declined cover under the policy 
exclusion of wear and tear/gradual damage. RSA declined cover because the home 
emergency policy does not provide cover for lasting repairs:
Additional repair work, for example a blocked drain will be left running clear
but if the drain needs to be realigned to avoid the problem recurring this will not
be covered
or for:
Any costs that would be more appropriately recovered under any other
insurance. 
Mr G said his policy provides cover for non-emergencies. While that may be the case, the 
policy exclusions still apply. In the circumstances of Mr Gs claim, his drain was cleared 
enough to allow water to drain away, and he was advised to seek a permanent repair. Once 
hed been advised of that, responsibility lay with him to mitigate further damage. Im satisfied 
that RSA reasonably relied on the policy exclusions to decline cover for the drain 
replacement.
Compensation
RSA offered Mr G £150 compensation for the delay in reaching the decision stage of his 
claim. Ive thought about the impact on Mr G, as he described, and whether the delay 
caused him any financial loss. RSA had declined cover for repairs beyond the initial 
blockage removal. But I can understand that RSAs delays wouldve caused Mr G the 
inconvenience and distress he described. That said, the outcome was always going to be 
the same regardless of how long RSA took to reach the decision, so I cant see that it 
caused any financial loss. Therefore, in consideration of the actual delay, Im satisfied that 
RSAs offer of £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
In summary, the available evidence persuades me that, more likely than not, the drain was 
cleared sufficiently to stop the initial emergency, and the responsibility then fell to Mr G to 
arrange for a permanent repair. Im satisfied that RSA settled the cost of repair covered 
under the policy, and it fairly declined the remaining parts of Mr Gs claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. I see no reason to ask RSA to do any more than it has already 
offered.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman