DRN-4175332
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly provided him with an 
overdraft which it then unfairly added interest, fees and charges to when it ought to have 
realised that he was experiencing financial difficulty.
Background
Lloyds told us that we could only look at events that had happened in the six years prior to 
Mr Ws complaint, as three years from when he ought reasonably to have been aware of his 
cause to complain didnt provide him with more time. Weve already explained to Mr W why 
Lloyds is correct on this matter and so this decision is only looking at events from         
November 2016.
Two of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ws concerns and thought that what Lloyds had already 
done to put things right for Mr W was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint. They also thought that Lloyds decision to remove Mr Ws overdraft and record a 
default on Mr Ws credit file wasnt unfair either.
Mr W disagreed with our adjudicators views. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Weve already explained why were unable to look at Lloyds decision to initially provide     
Mr W with his overdraft. So I dont propose to offer any further comment on that matter here.
Lloyds has agreed that it ought to have realised that Mr W was struggling and that it 
shouldnt have added any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ws account from           
November 2016. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges added it to  
Mr Ws account from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Lloyds has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Mr W was left with an outstanding balance even after the credits he made to his 
account were factored in and he was refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied 
from November 2016. But while Mr W was left with an outstanding balance to repay and he 
might be unhappy with this, Lloyds has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr W believes that Lloyds should do more. As I understand it, hes unhappy at being left with 
a balance and the default thats been registered on his credit file.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr W has said. But all the interest, fees and charges Lloyds 
shouldnt have added have been removed from the overdraft. So all Mr W will be left with to 
repay are the funds which he used and benefitted from and crucially I dont agree that the 
interest, fees and charges have left him with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left 
with. 
I now turn to Mr Ws credit file. Mr W is unhappy at the default Lloyds has recorded on his 
credit file. However, all parties are in agreement that Lloyds ought to have taken corrective 
action on Mr Ws overdraft because it was unsustainable for him. I appreciate Mr W says 
that he was within his overdraft limit and was in a decent financial position while this was the 
case. But Im satisfied that his account conduct suggests otherwise.
So I think that by going further than what Id normally do here and asking Lloyds to remove 
any adverse information and Lloyds to reinstate Mr Ws overdraft, would result in me 
agreeing that Lloyds needed to take corrective action in relation to the overdraft because it 
should have known Mr W was unable to repay his overdraft but not reflect this going forward. 
And I think that it would be unfair to Lloyds and Mr W, unreasonable its logic and inaccurate 
if I asked Lloyds to reinstate Mr Ws overdraft and amend his credit file in this way  as that 
doesnt reflect what would more likely that not have, or did actually, happen here.
By asking Lloyds to remove any adverse information here, Id be asking it to record 
inaccurate information and telling it to record that Mr W was (and even now is) in a position 
to pay his overdraft balance in accordance with the terms and conditions, which for the 
reasons the complaint has been upheld, simply wasnt the case. 
I think that requiring Lloyds to amend Mr Ws credit file in the way hes suggested would be 
counterproductive and arguably not in Mr Ws best interests, or those of any potential lender. 
This is especially the case as Mr W was served with numerous letters before a final demand 
for payment and he was unable to repay or reach an arrangement to repay, what he owed, 
before the account was defaulted. I know Mr W believes he wasnt given sufficient time to repay but he was in arrears for some time by this stage. And the time he was given was in 
line with the terms and conditions of his account and good industry practice. 
Having carefully thought about everything, including everything Mr W has told us, Im 
satisfied that removing Mr Ws overdraft and then defaulting the account wasnt 
unreasonable given the circumstances here. So while I can understand why Mr W is 
disappointed to have been left with a balance to repay and a default on his credit file, Im not 
satisfied that these are compelling reasons for me to depart from our usual approach here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already done to 
put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So Im not upholding 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman