DRN-3805791
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined a claim on her travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs S has a home in America. She took out an annual travel insurance policy with Aviva in 
October 2021 as she planned to visit her home following the easing of Covid-19 restrictions. 
When she did visit, the following year, she became unwell and was hospitalised. Mrs S tried 
to claim on her policy for her medical expenses. The claim was declined because Aviva said 
the policy didnt include cover for America. Mrs S said, in summary, this could not be right as 
the quote she obtained referred to worldwide cover. She made a complaint to Aviva, but they 
maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought that Mrs S had obtained a number of quotes, none of which included cover for 
America. So, she was satisfied Aviva had fairly declined the claim. 
Mrs S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, she said 
she didnt get a number of quotes from Aviva and took it out via a price comparison website. 
She said that the quotation she had had the reference QTE9947 and this didnt match the 
reference on the policy documents that were issued to her. Mrs S says the quote refers to 
24/7 worldwide medical assistance with no exceptions. 
She went on to say that she travels regularly to America and is very aware of the potential 
medical costs which is why she checked the cover was worldwide. She said she would like 
to see the policy documents for the policy she was quoted for. Finally, she explained that 
she had been forced to settle the outstanding debt for medical expenses which would 
potentially impact their property and possessions in America. Mrs S also asked to see some 
of the information that the investigator had relied on when reaching her conclusion. The 
complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
Having reviewed Mrs Ss complaint I asked our investigator to obtain more information from 
Aviva about the quotations that were appearing on their system. Our investigator also shared 
a summary of this information, and the information Mrs S had asked to see, with her. She 
clarified that Aviva had provided information from their systems which showed that several 
quotes had been generated in Mrs Ss name and that each of those quotes had excluded 
cover for America. Aviva said that the reason there was a difference between the quotation 
reference and the policy documents was because the policy that was purchased was 
generated from a different quote. They also provided evidence that information about the 
policy had been emailed to Mrs Ss email address on the day of purchase and that shed 
since logged in to the Aviva portal, where the policy documents were available. 
I asked Mrs S to comment on this information. Mrs S said: 
It would be perverse for her to have purchased insurance that wouldnt cover her trip.
Shed accepted the quote carrying the reference QTE9947 and that was the basis 
of the contract. That policy including 24/7 worldwide assistance. 
She never saw or received multiple quotes from Aviva and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service had refused to supply that information to her. 
She didnt know that Aviva Travel Insurance used the same portal as her health 
insurance. She didnt recall using the portal but may have done so to check on the 
status of a private medical insurance claim. 
So, I now need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Mrs S bought the policy online and so she wasnt given any advice about the suitability of the 
policy for her. So, Aviva had a responsibility to ensure that Mrs S had enough information to 
decide if the policy was right for her. That information should be clear, fair and non-
misleading.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
I think its most likely that Mrs S took out the policy with Aviva directly. Theyve 
explained this particular policy isnt sold via a price comparison website. I also note 
that Mrs S told us that she already had health insurance with Aviva. And the quote 
she provided us with indicates that she received a 10% discount because she was an 
existing customer. So, based on the available information, I think it was most likely 
sold via Avivas website. 
Aviva has provided evidence from its systems which shows that several quotes were 
generated for Mrs S on the 18 October 2021. They were all generated within a period 
of around half an hour. Each one has Mrs Ss personal details  including her name 
and address. So, I think its most likely Mrs S did generate more than one quote 
rather than just one. 
Each quote has the area of travel recorded as Worldwide excluding USA, Canada & 
all Caribbean Islands. That includes the quote carrying the reference QTE9947. 
Ive taken into account the relevant sales process from the time Mrs S purchased the 
policy. It shows that Mrs S would have been presented with three options when 
selecting the area of travel. Those were, Europe, Worldwide including USA, 
Canada, Caribbean Islands and Worldwide excluding USA, Canada, Caribbean 
Islands. As all the quotes show the area of travel as Worldwide excluding USA, 
Canada, Caribbean Islands I think it is most likely thats the option Mrs S selected. When Aviva generates a policy from a quote the reference changes from QTE to 
MTV. The available evidence demonstrates that Mrs S didnt proceed with QTE 
QTE9947. She generated a different quote QTE0003 and proceeded with that 
one. It became policy reference MTV0003 which is why her policy documents carry 
that number. And, in any event, as Ive outlined above her quote carrying the 
reference QTE9947 didnt cover the USA. 
Mrs S says that her quote referred to 24/7 worldwide assistance. But thats not the 
same as the area of travel that the policy covers. I think its sufficiently clear that 
24/7 worldwide assistance is referring in general terms to the assistance provided by 
the policy. The policy schedule clearly sets out that America is excluded from cover.  
I think Aviva did send Mrs S an email with the details of the policy that shed 
purchased and detailed information about it. Im satisfied that the information was 
sent to the correct email address on the day of purchase. Aviva has provided 
evidence from its system that the email was sent a few minutes after the purchase of 
policy reference MTV0003 was completed. Mrs S says she didnt receive this but 
the evidence suggests it was sent. 
If Mrs Ss software blocked the email, thats not something I can hold Aviva 
responsible for. The documents were available via the Aviva portal and it was also 
open to Mrs S to chase Aviva for a copy of the policy shed purchased. 
Ive seen a copy of the cover letter for the policy documents which remind Mrs S to 
check the details of the policy and read the documents. It also reminds her of her 
right to cancel the policy within 14 days. Mrs S said that she was able to access this 
via an application in June 2022. She also logged on to the Aviva portal in December 
2021. So, Im satisfied its most likely that this information was accessible to her prior 
to travelling. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs S said she may have accessed the portal about her 
private medical insurance claim. But this doesnt change my thoughts about the 
overall outcome of the complaint. The information was available via the portal. And, 
in any event, if she had concerns about not having received the documents following 
the sale (as opposed to the quote she had retained) then this was her responsibility 
to do so. Thats because it was for Mrs S to ensure that the policy was right for her. 
The policy Mrs S purchased didnt cover claims in America. So, it wasnt 
unreasonable for Aviva to decline her claim. I appreciate that Mrs S says it would be 
perverse for her to purchase a policy without cover for America. However, the 
evidence available to me suggests it is most likely thats what happened. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S and I have a lot of empathy with her circumstances as the 
medical bills were substantial. But based on the available Im not upholding this complaint
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman