DRN-3688684
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account without notice. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr S opened an account with a Tech Pack feature. That provides 
insurance for items such as mobile phones and costs £14.50 a month. The account was 
credited with £20. 
The following day, Barclays wrote to Mr S to say that it was closing the account with 
immediate effect. It did not give a reason for the closure. The closure letter explained that Mr 
S could attend a branch to withdraw any funds in the account. 
The bank had already made a deduction from the account balance of £11.69 in respect of 
the Tech Pack, covering the period to the end of the month. Mr S was able to withdraw the 
balance of £8.31. He complained about the account closure and the banks retention of the 
Tech Pack fee. Barclays said however that it had acted in line with its own terms and 
conditions and that its decision to close the account was correct. It later reviewed Mr Ss 
concerns and agreed to refund the Tech Pack fee; it maintained however that it had acted 
fairly in closing the account. 
Mr S referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He agreed with Barclays that it had not acted unfairly. Mr S indicated that he 
would accept the banks offer to return the Tech Pack fee but said nevertheless that he 
wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A bank is generally under no obligation to offer to provide an individual with banking 
services, or to continue to do so. It is primarily for banks to decide whether to accept or keep 
a customer. This service wont generally interfere with a banks exercise of its discretion in 
such matters, as long as that discretion is exercised fairly. I dont believe that Barclays 
exercised its discretion unfairly in this case. Its terms and conditions allowed it to close the 
account in certain circumstances, and that is what it did.
We will however consider how a bank has acted in closing an account. The closure notice 
which Barclays sent to Mr S explained what the bank was doing and the effect of the 
closure. It later agreed to refund the Tech Pack fee, so Mr S has not lost out financially as a 
result of the account closure. I appreciate of course that the account closure may have been 
inconvenient for Mr S, but I do not believe that the bank acted unfairly.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman