DRN-3173387
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim under their home 
insurance for damage to a boundary wall during a storm.
Both Mr and Mrs P are named policyholders on their Aviva policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr P, Ill refer mainly to Mr P from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had an Aviva home insurance policy. In February 2020, part of their boundary 
wall collapsed during Storm Jorge. Mr P  through his insurance broker  made a claim on 
his insurance. 
Avivas surveyor and building contractors inspected the damage in March and April 2020 
respectively, and Mr P believed Aviva had accepted his claim. Avivas contractor estimated 
the repair costs at £28,000. Aviva later accepted that it had wrongly given Mr P the 
impression that the delay was due to delays signing off the repair costs. Despite Mr Ps 
broker asking for updates, Aviva didnt contact Mr P again until July 2020.
Avivas surveyors inspected the wall again in July 2020. Following this third inspection, it 
rejected Mr Ps claim. It said the wall collapsed not as a result of storm, but due to a 
combination of lack of maintenance / gradual deterioration accompanied by moderate 
winds.
Mr P challenged this. He asked to see Avivas reports and appointed his own expert to 
inspect the damage in September 2020. Mr Ps surveyor (referred to in my decision as L) 
concluded that the wall collapsed as a consequence of storm conditions occurring on or 
around 29 February 2020. Mr P asked a builder to quote for repairs. His quote was £23,602, 
plus VAT. This was very close to Avivas contractors original estimate in April 2020.
Mr P sent Ls report to Aviva. He said this confirmed the damage was due to the storms so 
should be covered under his policy. He asked Aviva to settle his claim.
Aviva wouldnt reverse its decision. However, it offered Mr P £600 to apologise for failings in 
its handling of his claim. Specifically, it accepted that it gave Mr P the wrong impression it 
had accepted liability then took too long to decline the claim. Mr P didnt accept this so 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. While he agreed 
there were storm force winds immediately before the walls collapse, he didnt think these 
would have been strong enough to cause the damage. He thought Avivas decision to reject 
the claim was fair. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
Mr provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 October 2021. I said:
Mr Ps policy booklet lists Loss of or damage to the buildings caused by Storm or flood 
as an insured event. The policy definition of Buildings includes walls. So Im satisfied storm 
damage to a boundary wall is covered by Mr Ps policy. I now need to decide whether 
Avivas decision to decline the claim was fair. 
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage typical of storm damage? 
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed. Ill consider each in 
turn.
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
Some buildings and contents policies define a storm. Mr Ps policy doesnt. So Ive 
considered the weather conditions in the days leading up to the walls collapse. 
Avivas internal note on 17 September 2020 said: No storm level conditions at [time of 
claim] (36MPH winds) and really should not have progressed beyond this point without 
further info being provided. I dont think thats right.
Ive looked at the Met Offices website and its information for the 2019/2020 storm season. It 
shows three storms hit the UK over a three-week period in February 2020:
Storm Ciara, 8-9 February. in terms of gust speeds this was the most significant 
storm across England and Wales overall since 12 February 2014.1
Storm Dennis, 15-16 February. In terms of wind speeds, this was a notable although 
not exceptional storm for the time of year. However, one feature of storm Dennis 
was the persistence of the strong winds across the UK for several days.2
Storm Jorge, 29 February-1 March.
The data from the weather station closest to Mr Ps home shows strong gale force winds on 
seven days during this period: on February 9th (maximum gusts of 60mph), 10th (56mph), 
11th (47mph), 15th (47mph), 16th (54mph), 23rd (49mph), and 29th (49mph). On five other 
days during this period, winds exceeded 40mph. 
Having reviewed the weather data, Im satisfied that there were storm conditions in the area 
of the country where Mr P lives in the three weeks before his wall collapsed.
2. Is the damage typical of storm damage?
As our investigator explained, logic dictates that storm force winds have the potential to blow 
a wall over. So Im satisfied that the damage to Mr Ps wall is consistent with storm damage.
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
This is the key question.
1 https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/binaries/content/assets/metofficegovuk/pdf/weather/learn-about/uk-
past-events/interesting/2020/2020_02_storm_ciara.pdf 
2 https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/binaries/content/assets/metofficegovuk/pdf/weather/learn-about/uk-
past-events/interesting/2020/2020_03_storm_dennis.pdf Aviva has been unable to provide any of the reports by its surveyors or contractors from 
March, April, and July 2020 that it relied on to decline the claim. Thats incredibly frustrating 
and difficult to understand. 
However, its letter to Mr P on 24 July 2020 included four paragraphs that set out its 
surveyors findings following the July 2020 inspection. In summary:
The winds werent strong enough to cause structural damage to a double skinned 
brick wall with supporting buttresses.
The wall was protected by a log cabin which was completely unaffected.
Other boundary walls were suffering from historical cracking and gradual 
deterioration. Given these walls werent damaged, Aviva believed the failed section 
of wall was in a weaker condition and had lost its structural integrity prior to the 
recent events.
Aviva said the wall should have been able to withstand the winds and its failure was 
inevitable. It concluded: the moderate winds have only assisted with the failure rather than 
being the proximate cause of the loss.
Conversely, Ls report is detailed and comprehensive. He covered:
The general maintenance of the wall  Overall, bearing in mind the age of the wall, 
the wall is in good condition. While he noted two cracks in the left wall, he found this 
was remote to the current area of damage.
Evidence of pre-existing damage  he found no cracking or any other potential 
causes of failure to the damaged section of wall. L included a photo showing the wall 
pre-collapse: No cracking, lean or other distortion or failure is evident.
Other damage  he found no evidence of subsidence, and no damage caused by 
tree roots.
Weather  he noted the February 2020 storm conditions.
Vegetation  he said laurel trees that werent on Mr Ps property had grown against 
the rear (damaged) wall. These trees would likely have swayed excessively during 
the storm, and may be contributory towards the collapse of the wall. Photos clearly 
show damage to the trees where theyve hit the wall.
L concluded: Considering all surface evidence available my opinion is that the wall has 
collapsed as a consequence of storm conditions occurring on or around 29 February 2020 
during Storm Jose [sic] and the two previous storms, Ciara and Dennis.
On balance, Im more persuaded by Ls evidence. Avivas report is, effectively, just four 
paragraphs; Ls is 13 pages, provides a full picture of the damage, and includes supporting 
photos. 
I also think Avivas summary findings are questionable. For example:
As Ive said above, the winds werent moderate  they were strong gale force 
winds3. This makes me question whether Avivas surveyors were aware of the true 
wind strength when they reached their conclusions in July 2020.
I think Avivas argument that the damaged section of wall must have been weaker is 
a stretch. By that logic, it believes the whole of Mr Ps 45m rear wall should have 
collapsed if the storm was to blame. I dont think thats reasonable. If the whole wall 
3 as per the Beaufort Wind Scalehad collapsed one might argue that this was stronger evidence that the wall was 
weak.
In any case, L explained that laurel trees swaying in the storm against the damaged 
section of wall were likely to have been a factor in the collapse.
L found no evidence of pre-existing cracking or deterioration to the boundary walls, 
apart from a small section of the left-hand wall. Id expect Aviva to be able to provide 
evidence (such as photos) showing the historical cracking. It hasnt done so.
Aviva asked its surveyor to comment on Ls findings. The surveyor made four points:
The surrounding walls were in good condition. If these exposed sections of wall 
withstood the storm, the damaged section of the wall  which were sheltered behind 
a large shed  must have been in poor condition.
The need for buttress supports shows there was an existing issue with the wall.
The natural drainage to that low part of the garden might have caused a problem.
A photo of the wall in Ls report shows a bow in an undamaged section of the wall. 
This shows the extent of the pre-existing damage.
L responded to these comments. He said:
The location of the shed was irrelevant given the damage was the result of the 
storm plus swaying laurel trees. Mr P also told us the shed was set an angle to the 
wall, creating a funnel which concentrated gusts on the point where the wall 
collapsed.
He didnt access the rear side of the wall apart from at the damaged section. So 
there may be other buttresses at other points of the wall further away from the 
damage. Mr P rejected Avivas statement that the wall was buttressed at the 
damaged section. 
Drainage wasnt a factor given failure is above ground and therefore not necessarily 
drainage related.
The bow in the wall is the consequence of the collapse rather than the cause of 
collapse.
Again, Im more persuaded by L here. Photos in his report show buttresses either side of the 
collapsed section, not at the collapsed section, and that the collapse was several rows 
above ground. They also show the shed was set at an angle to the wall, although I cant 
comment on Mr Ps statement about this creating a funnel of wind and Ls report doesnt 
consider this. I might reasonably have expected Ls report to comment on the bow if he 
believed this indicated pre-existing damage. Instead, I think his explanation that this is a 
consequence of the collapse is reasonable.
Given the damage occurred in an area where laurel trees grew against the wall, and no 
other areas of the wall showed deterioration, Im satisfied by Ls expert conclusion that the 
storm was the main cause of the damage.
In summary, Im persuaded that:
There were storm force winds at Mr Ps home between 9 and 29 February 2020.
These storm winds caused part of Mr Ps boundary wall to collapse.
The storm winds were the main cause of damage.
This means I think Avivas decision to decline Mr Ps claim was unfair. It follows that I think it 
should settle the claim.Finally, I agree with Aviva that its handling of the claim was poor, and Im glad it 
acknowledged this. I see from its internal notes on 26 June, 8 July, and 13 July 2020 that 
Aviva told Mr Ps broker it was waiting for costs to be approved. Its internal note on 17 
September 2020 said: 
Claim was not accepted but since [the April 2020 quote for repairs] both the PH and 
broker have been advised that we were just waiting on costs being approved before 
we can move ahead, did not indicate to them that claim had not been accepted yet or 
that this was a possibility. From reviewing the file I can certainly understand why the 
PH was under the impression that claim was proceeding.
I think its offer of £600 to apologise for this, and for the delays in deciding the claim, is fair. If 
it hasnt already done so, it should pay this in addition to settling Mr Ps claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs P were happy with my provisional decision and had nothing to add.
Aviva told us it had no further comments or any new information to offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party challenged my provisional findings or provided any new information for 
me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mr and Mrs Ps claim in line with the remaining policy terms; and 
If it hasnt already done so, pay Mr and Mrs P £600 to reflect failings in its handling of 
their claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman