DRN-3276124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that a Business Manager from Barclays Bank UK PLC forced them 
into utilising personal protection cover that they did not want or need, by making it a 
requirement of their business lending. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R first transferred their business accounts to Barclays in 1991 from a different 
bank. In 1994, after meeting with a Business Manager, it was requested that their existing 
Clerical Medical policy should be assigned to their business accounts. 
When the term on that policy ended the following year, Mr and Mrs R took out a second 
protection policy with General Accident and assigned this to their business lending until 
2004.  
In 2019, Mr and Mrs R complained to Barclays. They said that being made to assign 
protection policies to their business lending was unfair. They also complained about various 
payment protection insurances (PPI) that had been mis-sold to them.  
In late 2020, Mr and Mrs R referred their concerns to this service, noting that Barclays had 
not replied with a final response to all matters. It had only addressed PPI on one of four 
accounts, for example. It also hadnt replied to the point about life cover at all. They also 
clarified that whilst they appreciated that life policies and PPI were different products, from 
their point of view Barclays demanded security across the board; the matters were 
inextricably linked  so all their complaints should be heard collectively.
In February 2021, Barclays rejected the complaint. It said that in 1991 and 1995 it had been 
a condition of residential lending to require appropriate protection in the form of life 
assurance cover, and the Business Manager had the discretion to require it for business 
lending. It did, however, pay Mr and Mrs R £200 for the delay in responding to the complaint. 
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt succeed. She didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays Business Manager to ask Mr and Mrs R to take out additional 
security on their borrowing. She said if they didnt want to agree to those terms, they could 
have decided to undertake their business banking elsewhere. Overall, she did not think it 
was an unreasonable provision for Barclays to require protection against business lending.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed. They made a number of further comments in various exchanges 
with the investigator. I have read these in full, though I will not set them out verbatim here. 
The key points of their further comments were:
during Barclayss restructuring in 1993/1994 all of their accounts had approved 
overdrafts and protection insurance for those;
but no other security was sought for the business lending by Barclays or themselves;
Barclays then decided to impose the additional burden of protection for debt from 
1994 onwards;
the debt created by this imposed insurance was totally unnecessary for their 
requirements;
it placed additional interest charges onto them, because their current accounts with 
overdrafts also carried interest payment;
it is an insult for Barclays to suggest they could have sought their business accounts 
elsewhere;
as it was they had other issues with Barclays operation of their accounts and they 
did not need additional hassle of yet another switch;
for this reason they conceded to the cover being assigned for their business 
accounts but they never agreed or accepted that it was fair to do so;
they disagree with the investigators conclusions that it was fair for Barclays to 
unilaterally impose additional debt and restrictions on them, without question;
considering their various complaints separately at this service means that the 
complete scenario may not be considered;
they do not dispute that Barclays had the right to expect security for the lending, but 
they had enough already from existing sources;
if Barclays hadnt insisted on the imposition of an executive loan in the first place, 
they wouldnt have been required to assign their policies;
on that basis, Mrs R made further submissions on all of the complaints about 
Barclays as they wanted the matter to be read in context across all of the complaints; 
they want this specific complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I recognise that this complaint solely concerns the matter of assignment of life assurance 
policies for Mr and Mrs Rs business accounts with Barclays. But the other matters pursued 
to this service - the overdraft protection insurance and now recently the ten-year executive 
loan - are being dealt with as separate complaints for the reasons already explain by our 
investigator(s). 
I do not agree with the contention that I cannot reach a fair or reasonable outcome to this 
complaint merely because the complaints arent combined. I have read all of the 
submissions Mr R has made in respect of the complaints and I am able to consider this 
complaint with reference to the comments both Mr and Mrs R and Barclays have made.  
I recognise that when the business accounts were transferred to Barclays in 1991, overdraft 
protection was required and it was consolidation of the overdraft facility into a single joint 
account which led to Barclays requirement for Mr and Mrs R to take out the ten-year 
executive loan  from 1994 onwards.  
They say that if this hadnt happened then assigning the existing Clerical Medical policy and 
taking out the further General Accident policy for life cover would never have been required. 
Mr and Mrs R also contend that if they had died, become ill or disabled or lost their sources 
of income, their business debt could be covered by the sale of their additional property, 
which was not resided in and was owned outright - as the property had a value exceeding 
their total liabilities with Barclays.  
However, this requirement was a matter for Barclays; its Business Managers were able to decide whether life assurance policies were a requirement of business lending, based on the 
circumstances. And it was a general provision at that time for residential mortgages.  
I can see that this was made clear to Mr and Mrs R at the relevant times. For example, in the 
letter of 23 November 1995 which discussed the requirement for a replacement policy, the 
Business Manager set out that he enclosed with [his] letter of the 20th November a copy of 
the Loan facility letter that you signed, confirming that the Bank could hold assigned life 
cover in support of your Loan borrowing, and therefore it would seem that a new life policy 
needs to be arranged.
I do not believe this to be an unfair provision. This service does not make findings on what 
may be a legitimate exercise of commercial judgement of the part of a business and it was 
for Barclays to decide what level of risk it was prepared to accept in respect of its business 
lending, and whether a condition of that lending was the holding of appropriate insurance. In 
this case the loan was provided on the basis that appropriate life assurance was held by Mr 
and Mrs R. I note that Barclays did not insist on its own insurance, but cover must be held.  
I know Mr and Mrs R feel that having equity in another property meant they had assets 
which exceeded their debts; but this was not freely accessible if either one of them were to 
pass away  that property would need to be sold. A life assurance policy is designed to meet 
a specified sum assured in the event of death of a policyholder, and for that reason they are 
commonly taken out alongside mortgages or other large financial liabilities.  
Mr and Mrs R also queried this at the time. I have seen the letter form the Business Manager 
dated 7 October 1996 where he sets out:
Thank you for your letter of 24th September. Having now been able to review the 
situation in detail, I must apologise on behalf of the Bank for any misunderstanding 
which there may have been. From the Bank's point of view, we are merely looking to 
assignment of the new life policy as security for your loan facility which is scheduled 
for repayment by January 2004. Once the relevant borrowing has been repaid, the 
policy can be reassigned and the policy document returned to you.
Though they do not accept it, Mr and Mrs R did have the option of switching to another 
lender if they were unhappy with the condition put to them. As it was, I don t find the 
requirement for security in the form of life assurance to be an unreasonable proposal by the 
Business Manager. If either Mr or Mrs R had passed away during the term of their life 
assurance, a valid claim payment would have cleared the business debt for the survivor. 
This service is not a regulator; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. It isnt my 
position to scrutinise the legitimacy of a business decision taken by a lender. As Ive said 
above, it is for me to decide what I consider fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
Having done so, I do not believe the provision for life assurance protection for business debt 
was an unfair one to set out to Mr and Mrs R, and Barclays did not insist that policies were 
sold but rather appropriate cover was held and assigned to the debt. I therefore do not 
uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
Though I realise my decision wont be what Mr and Mrs R have hoped for, I cannot uphold 
their complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman