DRN-3012781
The complaint
Mr E complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) did not treat him fairly when he fell into financial difficulties, due to ill health.
What happened
In February 2018 a car was supplied to Mr E under a conditional sale agreement with BPF. 
This arrangement means BPF buys the car from the dealer and remains the legal owner, 
until the finance is paid off.  The finance agreement was for 60 months, with monthly 
repayments of £344.60.
By January 2019 Mr Es account had fallen into arrears. BPF defaulted Mr Es account and 
sent him a termination notice in March 2019. BPF agreed to suspend the collection of the car 
on the basis that Mr E paid £1,000 a month to clear the arrears, Mr E was advised that BPF 
would reinstate the repossession action, if any further payments were missed. In October 
2019 a representative advised BPF the payment plan was no longer affordable, as Mr E had 
been made redundant. BPF agreed a reduced payment plan of £344.60 a month. 
In April 2020 Mr E advised BPF he could not afford to make his payments as he was unable 
to work due to a serious health condition. BPF suspended the payment plan until September 
2020, when Mr E advised he would be returning to work. But Mr E did not make any further 
payments and a third-party company was instructed to collect the car in April 2021.
Mr E complained to BPF that he was not aware of the decision to repossess the car until 
April 2021, as BPF had been sending letters to his old address, despite him updating his 
change of address. Mr E requested that BPF allow him to keep the car and agree another 
payment plan. BPF declined and said it would be continuing with the repossession action.
Mr E remained unhappy with BPFs response, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
BPF agreed to suspend the repossession whilst we investigated the complaint. Our 
investigator didnt recommend Mr Es complaint should be upheld. Given Mr Es history of 
late and missed payments he didnt think BPF had treated Mr E unfairly. The investigator did 
not think the system notes supported that Mr E had updated BPF with his new address and 
he was satisfied that BPF had made several efforts to also contact him by phone. 
Mr E has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es account history and payment plans
The agreement commenced in February 2018 and I can see that Mr E made late payments 
in June and July 2018. Mr E also missed three payments in November, December 2018 and 
January 2019. A notice of default was sent to Mr E on 24 January 2019 and a default was 
recorded on his credit file on 1 March 2019. BPF sent Mr E notice to terminate the 
agreement on 2 March 2019. BPF instructed a third party to collect the car.
In March 2019 Mr E advised BPF that he had been unable to make his payments because 
hed sustained an injury and had to take time off work. He advised hed returned to work and 
requested a payment plan to get his account on track. Following a management review of Mr 
Es account in June 2019, BPF agreed to suspend its repossession activity if Mr E could pay 
£1,000 a month until he cleared the arrears. Mr E was advised it would be reinstating the 
repossession, if he missed any further payments.
Mr E agreed to the payment plan and I can see he maintained the arrangement until October 
2019, when a representative got in touch with BPF to advise that following a redundancy Mr 
E could not maintain the arrangement. BPF agreed to reduce the plan to £344.60 per month. 
Mr E maintained this payment arrangement until April 2020, when he advised BPF of his 
illness. BPF subsequently suspended the second payment arrangement.
Mr E kept BPF informed about his condition and recovery and on 25 August 2020 he told 
BPF he planned to return to work in September 2020. On this basis BPF reinstated the 
£344.60 payment plan on 28 September 2020, but no further payments were received. 
BPF sent Mr E letters to the address it held, and the contact notes record numerous call 
attempts, but the calls were either unanswered or terminated. As it was unable to contact 
him BPF decided to collect the car and instructed a third party to collect the car in April 2021. 
BPF suspended the cars repossession whilst we have been looking into the complaint. 
BPFs decision to proceed with repossessing the car in March 2021
Mr E says BPFs decision in March 2021 to go ahead with the cars repossession is unfair, it 
was aware that he had been unable to make his payments due to his serious health 
condition and he did not return to work until February 2021. He says he contacted BPF in 
February 2021 to advise he was going back to work but was told his account number 
couldnt be found. Mr E says he needs the car to get to work and he is now in the position to 
maintain a payment arrangement to clear the arrears.
Mr E has explained how difficult this period has been, whilst recovering from a serious 
illness. And I sympathise with the situation he finds himself in. However, my role is to 
consider whether BPF have acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. In deciding 
whether BPFs decision to proceed with repossessing the car is fair, Ive considered Mr Es 
account history and the agreed payment plans set out above. It is clear from the account 
statement that there has been a history of late and missed payments, dating back to late 
2018, which was prior to Mr E falling seriously ill. 
Mr Es agreement was terminated in March 2019, but BPF has held off repossessing the car 
and has agreed a number of payment plans to help Mr E get his account on track. BPF also 
suspended payments on Mr Es account, once it was aware of his health condition. So, I 
think it responded fairly, when Mr E fell into financial difficulties. 
Despite Mr E informing BPF that he was returning to work in September 2020, it did not hear 
further from him or receive any payments, but it did not take the decision to restart the repossession action until March 2021. In the circumstances I think BPF showed 
considerable forbearance. I appreciate that Mr E was unwell, but he has told us he was 
feeling better and back at work in February 2021, but apart from the one call he says he 
made in this month (and there is no record of this), he does not appear to have contacted 
BPF until April 2021.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr Es situation, there is a history of missed payments, a lack of 
contact from him once he returned to work and a high level of arrears (currently £5,858.20), 
in the circumstances I do not think BPFs decision to repossess the car is unfair.
£1,000 per month payment plan
Mr E says he is unhappy that BPF would only agree to suspending the repossession of the 
car in June 2020, if he paid £1,000 a month. He said he felt pressured to agree to making 
these large payments, because he didnt want to lose the car. Mr E explained that the 
arrangement was not affordable, and it put him under significant financial strain and caused 
him a lot of stress. 
Mr E said he was advised that the payment plan was unreasonable, and a representative got 
in touch with BPF on his behalf and it agreed to reduce the payment plan to the original 
payment of £344.60.
Where a consumer has fallen behind on payments, we would expect the business to get an 
understanding of the consumers individual circumstances, to ensure that any payment plan 
is realistic and sustainable and will not make their financial situation worse. 
I can see that BPF completed a joint income and expenditure assessment of Mr E and his 
partner, in June 2020, to get an understanding of their financial situation. Based on the 
figures Mr E provided, the assessment showed he and his partner had enough disposable 
income to afford the £1,000 payment plan at the time. So, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for BPF to request the £1,000 monthly repayment to address his arrears. 
In October 2020 a representative contacted BPF on Mr Es behalf to advise that there had 
been a significant change in Mr Es circumstances as he had been made redundant. Despite 
BPF previously advising that it would resume repossession of the car if the payment plan 
was breached, it agreed to reduce the payment plan to the original contractual monthly 
payment. So, I think that BPF responded fairly to his change in circumstances. 
change of address
Mr E says that despite advising BPF of his change of address in 2020, it sent 
correspondence to his old address about his arrears and the repossession. And he did not 
become aware of the plan to repossess the car until April 2021.
From the contact notes I can see that Mr E advised BPF in May 2020 that he was staying at 
a friends address, but explained he was still collecting post from the address it held. BPF 
received post returned from the address it held as gone away in November 2020. I can see 
Mr E did not update his new address with BPF until April 2021. In any event, Im satisfied 
that BPF made numerous attempts to contact Mr E by phone between December 2020 and 
March 2021. It was Mr Es responsibility to advise BPF of his change of address and I 
cannot see he did this before April 2021, so I dont think BPF made a mistake in updating its 
records. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman