DRN-3631043
The complaint
Mr W complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has turned down a claim he made on a
personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a BUPA by You personal private medical insurance policy in 2015. In
September 2020, Mr W got in touch with BUPA to make a claim on the policy. Hed been
diagnosed by an ophthalmic consultant surgeon, who Ill call Mr T, with macular branch
retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) and was seeking payment authorisation to undergo a course
of three injections to treat the condition.
BUPA turned down Mr Ws claim. It said that it didnt cover any claims for BRVO, as it
considered it to be a chronic condition. Chronic conditions were specifically excluded by the
policy terms. It also referred to other policy exclusions which it concluded applied to Mr Ws
circumstances.
Mr W disagreed. He noted that there was no specific exclusion for BRVO in the policy
terms. He provided a letter from Mr T who stated that he wouldnt class Mr Ws BRVO as a
chronic condition and that he expected it to respond relatively rapidly to treatment.
BUPA maintained its stance. It said that this was a matter of policy, rather than taking into
account Mr Ws specific situation. So Mr W asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He felt itd been fair for
BUPA to decide not to cover any claims for BRVO. And he also thought itd been reasonable
for BUPA to conclude that the injections could be treated as routine monitoring or a
preventative treatment, which were also excluded by the policy terms.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 June 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think BUPA had treated Mr W fairly. 
In summary, I concluded that the relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So I 
considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ws policy and the available medical 
evidence, to decide whether BUPA treated him fairly.
I acknowledged that around five years before Mr W was diagnosed with BRVO, BUPA had 
made a policy decision to exclude all cover for retinal vein occlusion. Thats because 
following an evidence review, itd concluded that injections were aimed at controlling the 
symptoms of BRVO rather than curing it and those injections would need to be continued. 
So it concluded that BRVO was a chronic condition.
Having reviewed the policy terms, I accepted that the contract of insurance clearly states 
that BUPA doesnt cover chronic conditions and defines what it means by a
chronic condition. That definition says a chronic condition is:
a disease, illness or injury which has one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
checkups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
But I noted that the contract terms didnt set out that BRVO will be excluded as a matter of
policy and course. Or that in cases of BRVO, claims will be turned down
irrespective of any available medical evidence. Whilst I acknowledged that BUPAs entitled 
to decide what risks it will and wont cover, I referred to its obligation to provide information
which is clear, fair and not misleading. So I felt that if it wished to exclude all claims for 
BRVO, it was open to BUPA to set this out within its policy paperwork in a clear and 
transparent way.
BUPA had provided me with some medical evidence from its review to
demonstrate how and why it had concluded that BRVO was a chronic condition and which
showed that a course of injections wouldnt cure the condition. Its Medical Director (MD)
provided a quote from the Royal College of Ophthalmologists guidance:
Based on the Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion study (BVOS),15 the prognosis of BRVO is
better than CRVO with approximately 50  60% of untreated BRVO cases retaining a visual
acuity  6/12 after one year.
Therefore when a patient presents with recent onset mild visual impairment due to MO
secondary to BRVO, it may be reasonable to observe the progress of the condition over the
first three months of follow up.
The MD went on to summarise as follows:
The MO = macular oedema and it is this that the injections treat. What they are saying,
basically, is that the majority of cases settle without treatment  which is one of the criteria
for defining as a chronic condition.
Having looked at the definition of a chronic condition, I didnt agree that settlement of
a condition without treatment falls within one of the limbs set out in the contract. Neither did I
think the guidance the MD referred to suggested that BRVO is chronic. 
The MD later provided clarification on their comments and said:
The reason injections are ineligible is because they just treat a symptom. Unfortunately this
exclusion sits under the broader chronic rule - which is what gets wheeled out.
BRVO is a condition of acute onset, but it settles spontaneously. The various injections are
not treating the blocked vein (for which there is currently no specific treatment), so we rule
them ineligible.
I took into account the medical evidence BUPA had provided, together with the specific
medical evidence provided by Mr Ws own treating consultant ophthalmic surgeon, Mr T, to
consider whether I was satisfied it was fair for BUPA to deem Mr Ws condition as chronic.In brief, I felt Mr T, an expert in his own field and whod had the opportunity to examine Mr W 
at first hand, had clearly stated that he wouldnt class Mr Ws BRVO as chronic. And he 
considered the BRVO would resolve relatively rapidly should Mr W undergo the injections. 
And importantly, he suggested that the injections would provide treatment of Mr Ws acute 
presentation of BRVO.
The policy terms cover claims for eligible treatment. Eligible treatment is defined as follows:
Treatment of:
an Acute Condition or
a Mental Health Condition
together with the products and equipment used as part of the Treatment that:
are consistent with generally accepted standards of medical practice and
representative of best practice in the medical profession in the UK
are clinically appropriate in terms of type, frequency, extent, duration and the facility
or location where the services are provided
are demonstrated through scientific evidence to be effective in improving health
outcomes, and
are not provided or used primarily for the expediency of you or your Consultant or
other healthcare professional
and the Treatment, services or charges are not excluded under your Benefits.
An acute condition is defined as: a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly
to Treatment which aims to return you to the state of health you were in immediately before
suffering the disease, illness or injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
Taken together, I felt Mr Ts evidence indicated that he believed Mr Ws BRVO was an acute 
presentation which would resolve fairly quickly with treatment. So it seemed Mr T suggested 
that Mr Ws condition would fall squarely within the definition of an acute condition. 
Considering all of the available medical evidence, I thought it more
likely than not that Mr W was making a claim for eligible treatment which was aimed at
curing his condition.
BUPA had also referred to other exclusions which it considered applied to the circumstances 
of this claim. Namely exclusions for monitoring and screening and temporary relief of
symptoms. But I explained that its BUPAs responsibility to demonstrate that an exclusion 
applies which defeats a claim. Mr Ts evidence didnt suggest that hed recommended the 
injections either for monitoring purposes, preventative purposes or that the impact of the 
injections would only be temporary. And so I didnt think BUPA had provided sufficient 
evidence to show, on balance, that these exclusions should apply.
Overall then, I wasnt persuaded that the totality of the evidence suggested that BUPA had
treated Mr W fairly. There was no clear exclusion for BRVO in the contract terms; Mr Ts
evidence tended to support a conclusion that Mr Ws treatment is eligible and BUPA hadnt
provided me with enough medical evidence to demonstrate that Mr W was suffering from a
chronic condition. And as such, in these very specific circumstances, I found that BUPA 
should treat this claim as covered. And I told BUPA I intended to direct it to reassess Mr Ws 
claim for the first three injections recommended by Mr T. 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wished me to take 
into account.BUPAs response
BUPA didnt accept my provisional findings. It said:
The injections are only managing the symptoms (macular oedema) rather than 
treating the condition (the blocked vein) and therefore is excluded under the 
temporary relief of symptoms exclusion. This is really the key point for this treatment 
(rather than the distraction of the chronic exclusion).
The drug licences for the two injections are specifically for treating macular oedema, 
secondary to retinal vein occlusion. Therefore, they werent treating the BRVO.
Guidance from the Royal College of Ophthalmologists made it very clear that the 
injections were treating the macular oedema caused by the BRVO and not the vein 
occlusion itself.
A leading eye hospital had explained in published findings that there was no 
treatment for BRVO, but that the macular oedema can be treated.
Mr Ws condition had resolved after a short period of time, but that wasnt because of 
the injections.
The injections dont permanently resolve the macular oedema, they reduce its effect 
on a temporary basis. The injections need to be repeated on a regular basis whilst 
there is active disease.
Whilst there was no dispute that the injections provided a therapeutic benefit in 
managing macular oedema and reducing vision loss, treatment which only provides 
temporary relief of symptoms is specifically excluded by the terms of Mr Ws policy.
Mr Ts further evidence
I asked Mr W if he could obtain Mr Ts comments on the evidence BUPA had provided. Mr T 
provided the following further comments specifically in relation to BUPAs response:
My comment on the statement is that macular oedema is not a symptom. The symptom is 
that which is experienced by the patient which in this case would be visual reduction. 
Macular oedema is a clinical sign. It is a direct consequence of the branch retinal vein 
occlusion. 
I think one of the difficulties with BUPAS approach is that branch retinal vein occlusions do 
resolve spontaneously. In the large series of branch retinal vein occlusions, the medium 
time to resolution was 21 months for serious branch retinal vein occlusions and 18 months 
for more minor ones. There is a significant proportion that resolve within 3 or even 6 months. 
The problem is that if one does not provide treatment during this time, the retina is 
permanently damaged and the visual outcome is poor. Thus treatment is required even 
though the condition is self-limiting in many. 
I do understand BUPAs point that some of these vein occlusions can become chronic and 
require injection therapy over long periods of time. My personal feeling is that the most 
appropriate approach is to allow treatment for a period of time and for cover to then cease if that period of time is extended. There are various points at which one could draw the line, 
but 6 months would seem a reasonable one for me as the condition will be resolved for a 
reasonable proportion of patients within that time. 
There also seems a common sense problem with BUPAs definition in that a vein occlusion 
is an acute event. It is not something like hypertension which often starts insidiously and 
mostly requires lifelong treatment. That is not the case for branch retinal vein occlusion and 
the vast majority of patients will cease treatment at some point. Thus it is not a lifetime 
condition, but one that is temporally limited. It seems unfair to me, and falls outside what 
most people would understand as a chronic condition, to include something that has an 
acute onset and a defined resolution point.
Mr W also provided further comments on BUPAs response. Broadly, he felt BUPA was 
shifting the reason for declining the claim away from the chronic condition exclusion to focus 
on the temporary relief of symptoms exclusion. He didnt think it had provided clinical 
evidence to demonstrate that the treatment only provided temporary relief of symptoms. He 
referred to National Institute for Health & Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines which had 
assessed the clinical efficacy of the injections to treat BRVO. He felt that if, after a period, 
the original injections failed, it would be fair to treat any further treatment as excluded by the 
policy. But he didnt think BUPA could pre-emptively decide the outcome of the treatment, 
particularly when his treating doctor had felt there was a possibility that the treatment could 
be effective.
We asked BUPA for its further comments on Mr Ts new evidence. It responded to say:
One of our medical directors has reviewed the information and our stance remains the 
same. They explain that the point is that the underlying condition is the CRVO (sic), which 
the injections are not treating/curing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think BUPA has treated Mr W fairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to thank Mr W and BUPAs medical team for their detailed submissions 
(including the additional evidence from Mr T) in response to my provisional decision. This is 
a complex, very finely balanced case and turns on a very specific set of circumstances. This 
decision is not intended to form a precedent and has been reached following a detailed 
assessment of the contract terms and the totality of the medical evidence.
BUPA has provided clinical evidence from both from the Royal College of Ophthalmologists 
and from a leading eye hospital. I acknowledge that the published information its sent me 
indicates that BRVO is a blockage in the branch vein and that macular oedema is a 
complication of BRVO. Mr T accepts that macular oedema is a clinical sign of BRVO. I 
acknowledge too that BUPAs evidence suggests that intravitreal injections need to be 
continued until there is no sign of active disease and that this may take a few years.  BUPA 
accepts that the injections may help manage the macular oedema but has relied on medical 
evidence to conclude that the injections cant cure the BRVO.
With that in mind, BUPA has now placed greater weight on the following policy exclusion, 
which I referred to in my provisional decision, but did not set out in full:
Temporary relief of symptomsTreatment, the main purpose or effect of which is to provide temporary relief of symptoms or 
which is for the continuing management of a condition.
Ive thought about this very carefully. It seems to me that there is potential in cases of BRVO 
for the need for more regular injections to control the condition on an ongoing basis. It also 
appears that symptoms may recur and need further treatment. In such circumstances and 
dependent on the evidence, I may well find that BUPA could fairly rely on the above 
exclusion to decline a claim.
But I need to take account all of the evidence before me. BUPAs evidence is general in 
nature and doesnt consider Mr Ws specific circumstances. As I set out above, Mr T, who is 
an ophthalmic specialist and who has had the opportunity to examine Mr W at first hand, has 
made no suggestion that the injections were recommended for continuing management of 
BRVO. And neither has he indicated that the injections would only provide temporary relief of 
symptoms. Indeed, his evidence would suggest the opposite, as I note he said that he 
expected Mr Ws macular branch retinal vein occlusion to resolve relatively rapidly with 
injection treatment. He added that he would recommend BUPA funding a course of three 
injections to provide treatment of the acute presentation of (Mr Ws) retinal branch 
occlusion.
On this basis then, on balance, I find Mr Ts patient-specific evidence compelling in this 
case. I dont think the available evidence supports BUPAs conclusion that Mr T had only 
recommended the injections to provide temporary relief of Mr Ws symptoms.
Mr Ts evidence indicates that the macular oedema caused by BRVO can cause permanent 
retinal damage if its left untreated and that a patients visual outcome will be poor. BUPA 
has also accepted that Mr Ws eyesight was likely to be affected as a result of the macular 
oedema secondary to BRVO.  I set out in my provisional decision why I felt Mr W was 
suffering from an acute condition rather than a chronic condition and my findings on this 
point have remained unchanged. BUPAs MD acknowledged that BRVO was a condition of 
acute onset and Mr T reiterated this point in his further submission when he said: (The 
condition)has an acute onset and a defined resolution point. I remain persuaded then that 
the injections fall within the definition of eligible treatment. 
BUPAs policy does include eyesight cover, but it hasnt excluded BRVO or macular oedema 
under that particular or any other section. I note it has specifically excluded other eyesight-
related conditions. And so its still the case that if BUPA chooses to exclude all claims for 
BRVO, its open to it to make this clear in the contract. Its said its made a policy decision 
not to cover it, but it hasnt set this out in the policy terms. In my view, the treating specialist 
has stated that this is a condition of acute onset, which would resolve with treatment. The 
policy covers claims for eligible treatment.
Moreover, BUPA has also defined the word treatment separately in its contract terms. The 
policy says treatment is: surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are 
needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury. Taking BUPAs evidence 
into account, it seems that the injections would at least relieve Mr Ws disease. And based 
on Mr Ts findings, it seems that the injections would resolve it. This means, overall, I still 
find the evidence indicates that Mr Ws condition is acute in nature and therefore eligible 
under the policy. Accordingly then, I find that the recommended treatment of a course of 
three injections is covered under the policy terms. I must make it clear that I am not making 
the finding that BUPA needs to pay any for any further injections, (should they ultimately be 
required) as part of this decisionMy final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct BUPA Insurance Limited to reassess Mr Ws claim in line with the remaining
policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman