DRN-3176858
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
What happened
In or around April 2018, Mrs A and Mr A were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs A and Mr A decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In 2019, Mrs A and Mr A made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. They said 
that P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be 
true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced them to enter into the contract 
with P. They have made the following points;
They would receive a total income of around £600 a year from the system,
The system would generate free electricity; and,
They have subsequently found out that they could have purchased a similar system 
for less money and as P installed the system within their 14-day cooling off period 
they were denied the opportunity to source a cheaper system.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs A and Mr A or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs A and Mr A and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mrs A and Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view as they believe they couldve 
purchased a similar system for less from another provider.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs A and Mr A paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs and Mr A could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs A and 
Mr A and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by Shawbrook. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs A and Mr As recollection of the sale.
The expected benefits from the system
Mrs A and Mr A have said that they were told they would receive an annual income from the 
system, by way of feed-in-tariff (FIT) payments and savings on their energy bills, of £600 
and this hasnt been the case. They have also alleged that they would receive free 
electricity. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and considered whether this 
supports what Mrs A and Mr A have said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs A and Mr A could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs A and Mr A could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £215.14.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs A and Mr A could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £196.82 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chose by them, the combined income and savings in year one is shown 
as £667.44. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs A and Mr A were told that they would 
receive an annual income from the system of £600. 
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs A and Mr A. The quote sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 3,380 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs A and Mr As FIT statements and can see that their system generated 
3,484 kWh in a recent 12-month period. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point 
of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2007 and 2018 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. Ive noted that P slightly overstated the RPI for this period by 
0.3%. By my calculation this makes a difference of less than £10 a year over the loan term, 
so Im not persuaded I should ask Shawbrook to compensate Mrs A and Mr A.
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2018 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why they havent been 
receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting from the system. Since actual 
energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through 
the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P for EPR were based on the information 
available from the ONS covering 2007 to 2018. And based on this, I dont consider it 
unreasonable for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial 
income Mr and Mrs A couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can 
appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im 
not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time 
they entered into the contract.
Ive carefully considered the quote document in detail and I can find no mention of Mrs A and 
Mr A being provided with free electricity. And, as mentioned in the table above, the quote 
shows the expected savings they could make on their energy bills, so Im satisfied that they 
werent told theyd receive free electricity in addition to the income from the system.
Cost of the system
Mrs A and Mr A have said that they have since found out that they could have purchased a 
similar system to the one installed by P. And that as P installed the system within the 14-day 
cooling off period, they were denied the opportunity to look at the other options available to 
them.
Ive noted that within the contract Mrs A and Mr A have signed the Express Request for 
early supply of service. Within this theyve given notice for P to install the system as soon as 
possible, so while I accept that it must have been frustrating for Mrs A and Mr A to 
subsequently discover they may have been able to purchase a less expensive system, I 
cant conclude that P acted unfairly by installing the system when it did.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs A and Mr 
A to enter into the contract for the system, and Ive found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs A and Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman