DRN-1406298
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Legal and General Insurance Limited (L&G) wont accept the evidence 
hes sent them as proof of ownership for his home contents insurance claim.
Where I refer to L&G, this includes their agents.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary here. Mr A says his shed was broken into and various items were stolen. 
He made a claim to L&G who provide his home and contents insurance. 
L&G asked Mr A for proof of ownership for the items he was claiming for. Mr A provided 
some evidence but L&G didnt accept it. A complaint was raised and the matter was referred 
to our service. One of our investigators concluded that L&G had acted fairly and that Mr A 
hadnt evidenced his loss. But he commented that if Mr A were to provide further evidence, 
he would expect L&G to consider it.
Mr A then provided further evidence. L&G reviewed what Mr A had sent in, but still werent 
satisfied. This resulted in a further complaint. Our investigator thought that it was reasonable 
for L&G not to accept the further evidence Mr A had submitted. Mr A disagrees and has 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy says under the heading Claims Conditions: We will only ask you to provide 
information and assistance that is relevant to your claim. You must cooperate with us fully in 
providing such information and assistance. We may require proof of ownership and/or proof 
of loss (e.g. receipts, valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards).
The use of the word may above implies that L&G have some discretion here. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think it is reasonable for L&G to insist on having proof of 
ownership for the items being claimed for. This is because Mr As testimony has changed 
throughout the course of the claim  specifically in relation to where some of the items 
originated from. Mr A also later said the shop theyd come from only kept records for six 
months but L&Gs own enquiries revealed records were kept for far longer. In these 
circumstances I think it is reasonable for L&G to insist on Mr A evidencing his loss and to 
ask for proof of this. 
L&G have been consistent throughout that if Mr A provides original pictures with the 
metadata intact, original or duplicate receipts or the details of the person that he purchased 
some of the items from second hand, that they will consider them. I think that is fair. 
Following on from the previous complaint with our service, Mr A provided further evidence. 
This took the form of additional photographs and receipts from a shop. L&G have again 
refused to accept these. Theyve explained that the pictures again contain no metadata, so 
their time and location cant be established. They also highlighted that Mr A said it would 
take him too long to provide the original pictures. The receipts provided are a long list of 
items, with certain ones highlighted. There arent details of who bought the items, the date of 
sale or proof of payment.
Generally, it is for Mr A to evidence his loss for the claim to be accepted. L&G have set out 
what they would consider to be acceptable evidence, that being original photographs with 
complete metadata, original or copy receipts or the details of the person from whom the 
second hand items were bought. Overall, I dont think L&Gs decision to not accept the 
further evidence as proof of loss is unreasonable. And it follows that I think their decision to 
decline the claim for items that Mr A cant evidence his ownership of, is fair.
Mr A also complained that at one point he was told his claim had been passed to another 
area for his items to be valued. He thought that progress was being made and that he would 
receive a settlement. L&G accept that this was done in error, as Mr A hadnt yet, in their 
opinion, evidenced his loss. Ive thought about this and Im not persuaded that this error had 
such an impact on Mr A that compensation needs to be paid. 
Overall, I think L&G have acted fairly in the circumstances and Im not going to tell them they 
need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman