DRN-3272166
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt help recover the money he lost to 
an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr J fell victim to an investment scam and disputes several payments he made to 
XtraderFX. Two payments were made to Finproduct.Trade which Mr J also disputes  he 
says he only had dealings with XtraderFX and these were also arranged through it. 
By way of background, Mr J came across an advertisement on social media for XtraderFX 
which appeared to be endorsed by a well-known TV programme. He left his contact details 
on a webform and was subsequently contacted by a representative of XtraderFX. Mr J says 
that he didnt have any previous investment experience and the representative, who was 
later became his account manager, sold him a trading opportunity. Mr J did some research 
on the company and it looked legitimate, so he opened a trading account with a small 
deposit. Over the next few months, he continued making deposits into his trading account 
and made some withdrawals. Mr J has told this service that he had access to the online 
trading platform and was able to track the movements of the trades.
Mr J eventually realised he had been scammed when XtraderFX wouldnt let him make 
further withdrawals or close his trading account. Then one day, he couldnt access his 
trading account. Mr J says that he couldnt get hold of XtraderFX and subsequently learnt 
that its employees were in jail for fraud. He reported the matter to HSBC. However, it 
declined to refund the money Mr J lost. But HSBC offered £250 for the inconvenience he 
experienced when he reached out to it for assistance.  
Unhappy with this, Mr J referred his complaint to our service and our investigator upheld it. 
She concluded that HSBC ought to have blocked the initial payment in dispute and asked 
Mr J suitably probing questions to satisfy itself that all was well. And had it done that, she 
thought Mr J wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment  or indeed the subsequent 
payments. The investigator didnt think Mr J should share the blame for what happened and 
recommended HSBC to refund all the disputed payments along with transaction fees. She 
also asked HSBC to add 8% simple interest.  
Mr J accepted the investigators view, but HSBC didnt. It provided a comprehensive 
response which it helpfully summarised in its conclusion and I now repeat:
Overall, we consider that that the adjudicators view is unsupportable. As such, we do not 
accept that we should be held responsible for Mr Js loss for the following reasons:
There is a striking lack of detail as regards the background of this complaint and
only limited information on key issues has been provided in support, which raises
further concerns;
The adjudicator seeks to apply retrospective regulation by the back door  that
is not the purpose of the ombudsman service. If the regulator intended that we be 
obliged to take steps to block payments to merchants one month after they were the
subject of an FCA or IOSCO warning, or indeed to automatically block
transactions on a blanket basis, they would have made this clear. They did not; and
The adjudicators contributory negligence assessment is fundamentally flawed
and unsupportable. Mr Js losses were directly referable to his failure to carry
out any research and his actions were objectively reckless and inconsistent with
how a reasonable person would have behaved.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint was escalated to me for review and 
determination.
The following transactions were made using Mr Js debit card:
Date (on bank 
statement)Type Merchant Amount
26 October 2018 Debit XtraderFX £266.52 
(plus £7.32 non-sterling charge)
29 October 2018 Debit XtraderFX £4,664.37 
(plus £128.27 non-sterling charge)
6 November 2018 Credit XtraderFX £174.25 
(plus £4.79 non-sterling charge)
16 November 2018 Debit XtraderFX £5,017.91 
(plus £137.99 non-sterling charge)
23 November 2018 Debit XtraderFX £1,784.95 
(plus £49.08 non-sterling charge)
29 November 2018 Debit XtraderFX £7,846.38 
(plus £215.77 non-sterling charge)
20 December 2018 Debit XtraderFX £9,042.82 
(plus £248.67 non-sterling charge)
20 December 2018 Debit XtraderFX £5,877.83 
(plus £161.64 non-sterling charge)
24 December 2018 Credit XtraderFX £1,571.79 
(plus £43.22 non-sterling charge)
11 February 2019 Debit XtraderFX £1,048.67 
(plus £28.83 non-sterling charge)
14 February 2019 Debit Finproduct.Trade £4,102.12 
(plus £112.80 non-sterling charge)
14 February 2019 Debit Finproduct.Trade £7,917.45 
(plus £217.72 non-sterling charge)
Total debits £47,569.57 
(plus £1,308.09 non-sterling charge)
Total credits £1746.05
(plus £48.01 non-sterling charge)
Total loss £47,083.61
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr J for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr J using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by 
HSBC. These must be regarded as authorised payments even if Mr J was duped into 
making the payments. Under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
account, Mr J is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Banks and other payment services providers have duties to protect customers against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering. But they dont have to protect customers against the risk of 
bad bargains or give investment advice. And Im mindful the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), has confirmed that providing a fraud warning to a customer doesnt 
amount to investment advice.
Ive first considered whether XtraderFX was a legitimate trader. Im satisfied that it wasnt. 
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, Ive concluded this because: 
In 2018, binary options, forex and CFD traders operating in the UK were required to 
be regulated by FCA  XtraderFX was not. Im also not aware of it being regulated in 
any other jurisdiction. This indicates it was operating illegally with dishonest 
intentions; legitimate businesses tend to submit themselves to regulatory oversight. 
On 6 July 2018, the FCA published a warning about XtraderFX that it was offering 
financial services in its jurisdiction without authorisation. 
On 4 March 2019, a warning was published on the Investor Alerts Portal of the 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) by the Financial 
Market Authority in Austria. 
In June 2020, the High Court of England and Wales wound up GPay Ltd  of which 
XtraderFX was a trading name  after it lost a substantial amount of client money. In 
doing so, the Insolvency Service commented on the scam nature of the online 
platform. While this information wasnt available at the time of Mr Js payments, it 
helps build an overall picture of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense 
of others.
Intervention
HSBC is aware of our general approach to its safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers. As well as decisions being published on our website which set out these 
principles, and which quote the relevant rules and regulations, HSBC itself has also had 
several decisions setting out our position. We are required, and as provided for in the DISP 
Rules, to take into account the regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what we consider to have been good industry practice, as well as the law, when reaching a 
decision. And were tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. In doing so, were satisfied our approach isnt inconsistent 
with the law.
Suffice to say, HSBC ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have 
systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were 
at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make additional checks before processing payments, 
or declined them altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.As long ago as June 2012, the then regulator, indicated  in its consultation paper Banks 
Defence Against Investment Fraud; detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  that it 
was good industry practice for firms to put together an updated watch-list of types of scams 
and potential scammers; and to regularly share timely and detailed intelligence with other 
banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police etc. Im aware that the contents of this paper 
didnt specifically reference binary options or cryptocurrency scams. But I dont think the 
intention was to limit the types of investment fraud that firms ought to focus on. 
While the regulator didnt give any indication of when those watch-lists ought to be updated, 
its not unreasonable to expect an international bank (like HSBC) to update those lists, and 
communicate with staff, within a month of a warning being published by the FCA or IOSCO. 
And I consider that any watch-list should reasonably include parties who are carrying out 
regulated activities without being authorised to do so. 
Such alerts should automatically trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and lead to 
payments being paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries of the 
customer about the payment or giving a scam warning. Here, there was a warning about 
XtraderFX published by the FCA on 6 July 2018. That was over three months before Mr J 
made his first payment to XtraderFX. While the warning didnt specifically refer to binary-
options, forex or CFDs, it did specify that it was offering services in the FCAs jurisdiction 
without its permission. 
I accept that it didnt follow from the nature of the FCA warning in isolation that XtraderFX 
was not a legitimate company. But given the timing of the warning and when the first 
payment was made, HSBC ought to have automatically blocked it  in my view it had 
sufficient time to update and communicate its watch-list. The bank had constructive if not 
actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate merchant. 
HSBC has argued that this approach amounts to retrospective regulation. I disagree. The 
paper published in 2012, that the investigator and I have referred to, set out that the then 
regulator said it was good industry practice for businesses to have an updated watch-list of 
potential perpetrators and types of scam. So, having a watch-list of this type has been 
considered good industry practice for many years now  and thats something Im required to 
take account of in reaching my decision. Im satisfied updating a watch-list within one month 
is reasonable. Here, the payments were made over three months later; in my view this is 
plenty of time for any watch-list to be updated.
HSBC says that although it can apply blocks to certain merchant, these can be circumvented 
by those merchants by changing merchant/acquirer codes. But it hasnt explained how this 
applies to Mr Js case. I would also add that if the regulator is satisfied that its own warning 
lists, along with IOSCOs warnings lists, are sources available for building up a watch-list for 
investment fraud, I think this satisfies the threshold for strong grounds for suspicions 
enabling HSBC to delay payments to payees published on these lists. If HSBC has the 
capabilities of delaying payments to particular merchants, Im not sure why it wouldnt be in a 
position to do so for others  and from the first payment. 
In the context of Mr Js case, Im satisfied that HSBC ought to have blocked payments to 
XtraderFX based on credible warning published by the FCA, along with its own customer 
complaints about this merchant. It would have also been reasonable for HSBC to have 
asked Mr J appropriate probing questions before processing any payment to this payee. 
Had HSBC carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr J about the initial payment, 
Ive no reason to doubt he would have explained what he was doing. And while I accept that 
HSBC didnt have a duty to protect Mr J from a poor investment choice, or give investment 
advice, it could have provided information about the steps a customer can take to ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate merchant  such as 
checking that it was authorised with the FCA. 
HSBC could have also explained its own customers experiences with unregulated and 
unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be prevented from 
withdrawing available balances and trading accounts could be manipulated. After all, at that 
time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known even if 
a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks associated with binary options and 
CFDs, including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; 
the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the FCAs consultation 
paper of December 2016; the Gambling Commissions scam warning of December 2016; 
City of London Polices October 2017 report noting victims had lost over £59m to binary 
options fraud; Visas Business News publication of October 2017 where it expanded its 
chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and investment disputes arising from 
merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying deceptive practices; and so forth). 
Causation
If HSBC had asked Mr J what the payment was for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely he would have fully explained what he was doing, including mentioning the TV 
programme endorsement he came across on social media which prompted him to leave his 
contact details. HSBC did not need to know for certain whether Mr J was dealing with a 
fraudster or investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds 
for suspicion are enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and 
principles of good practice. I consider that there were such grounds here and, therefore, that 
HSBC ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then 
known to financial professionals about the risks associated with unregulated binary options, 
forex and CFD trading. As Ive mentioned, a fraud warning wouldnt constitute unauthorised 
investment advice. So, I dont think the bank would have acted out of line had it warned Mr J.
Had HSBC done so, Im satisfied that Mr J would have looked into the investment 
opportunity further and discovered more information about this type of investment, how high-
risk it was and whether XtraderFX was regulated here or abroad. Indeed, its likely he would 
have come across the warning published by the FCA himself and that would have been 
enough to give him second thoughts such that he wouldnt have traded at all. Its my 
judgement that HSBC ought to have intervened at the first payment. And had it done so, 
Mr J would likely have not made the first trade and so preventing his overall losses. 
The last two payments Mr J has disputed went to Finproduct.Trade. HSBC says that theres 
no evidence these were made to XtraderFX. I can see that Mr J forwarded emails received 
from XtraderFX to HSBC when he asked for its assistance. There are two emails dated 
13 February 2019 with the subject, XtraderFX  Deposit Confirmation. They confirm the 
amounts that were recently deposited into Mr Js trading account. The amounts are in Euro, 
but they match the Euro amounts that appear on Mr Js HSBC bank account statement for 
payments to Finproduct.Trade. I understand the point HSBC is making, but what Ive noted 
supports Mr Js position that his dealings were only ever with XtraderFX. In any event, for 
the reasons given above, Im satisfied Mr J wouldnt have gone ahead with these payments 
if HSBC had intervened and asked suitably probing questions when Mr J authorised the 
initial payment to XtraderFX.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. Ive duly considered whether Mr J should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. But he was drawn into the scam by someone purporting to be a legitimate 
trader, in much the same way as other people have been. Mr J saw his trading account 
performing well and it was being managed by a broker who he thought was a professional. 
He started with smaller payments and was encouraged to deposit more money after seeing 
his returns. 
I dont think he could earlier have foreseen the risk that the company he was dealing with 
was a scam. I think HSBC had better insight into this type of fraud, for example; through its 
own customer complaints and information provided to it by Visa to understand the level of 
sophistication involved with these types of scams. Notably, simulated trading platforms and 
merchants preventing cardholders from withdrawing their available balances. 
I do appreciate that there was a warning about XtraderFX in the public domain at the time of 
Mr Js payments. But I dont think he saw this, and I also dont think he could have 
reasonably known the operation of this type of scam unless prompted by, for instance, his 
trusted bank. I think the onus was on HSBC to inform Mr J of the risk that he would likely 
lose all of his money if he made payments to XtraderFX. And that responsibility fell upon 
HSBC from the initial payment based on what it ought to have known about XtraderFX.
All in all, Im satisfied that there was no contributory negligence on this occasion and Mr J 
was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the 
professional in financial matters; Mr J was a layperson.
Putting things right
As Ive concluded that HSBC should have done more to protect Mr J from financial harm, 
I require it to reimburse Mr J £47,083.61  the loss incurred because of the transactions in 
dispute. This takes into account the credits Mr J has already received directly from 
XtraderFX during this period.
HSBC also needs to add simple interest at 8% per year (less any tax properly deductible), 
calculated from the respective date of loss to the date of refund. 
HSBC has argued that applying this rate is inappropriate as Mr J didnt borrow any sums to 
fund the payments and wouldnt have achieved this in any safe and reliable investment. But 
this isnt to replace interest that Mr J might have earnt had the money stayed in his account 
or was invested into cash-based investments. It simply represents a notional average cost of 
consumer borrowing to cover someone being without their money as a result of wrongdoing 
for which we are holding a firm liable. 
It has long been our approach that simple interest at 8% per year is a suitable rate to 
compensate for being deprived of the funds, and I remain satisfied that it is fair to apply it in 
this case.
HSBC has recognised that there was some breakdown in service when Mr J reached out for 
its assistance in recovering his money. Its offered £250 for this, which I think is a fair 
gesture.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:reimburse Mr J £47,083.61;
add simple interest at 8% per year (less any tax properly deductible), calculated from 
the respective date of loss to the date of refund; and 
pay £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman