DRN-3278628
The complaint
Mrs B says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about six instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mrs B between March 
2014 and March 2019. Mrs Bs lending history is as follows:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
repayment
1 3/10/2014 14/04/2015 6 £350 £145.83
2 30/10/2015 27/4/2016 6 £500 £183.38
3 26/5/2016 25/12/2016 6 £300 £122.85
4 30/1/2017 25/8/2017 6 £700 £265.62
5 5/9/2017 26/2/2018 6 £400 £144.66
6 20/3/2019 outstanding 12 £800 £199.86
The breaks between loans one and two and five and six are significant so that Mrs B had 
three chains of borrowing from Mr Lender. Mr Lender agreed that it should have made better 
checks of affordability for loans five and six and it made Mrs B an offer of redress for these 
two loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mrs B disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
I can see that Mr Lender asked Mrs B for information about her monthly income and 
outgoings and it carried out credit checks. It also asked her why she needed the loans and, 
for one loan, it checked that these werent for gambling or to repay other loans. 
Mrs B said her monthly income was between £1,500 and £1,900 for loans one to five and 
£1,305 for loan six. And she said her monthly outgoings ranged between £1,075 for loan one 
and £850 for loan six. So Mrs B looked to have sufficient disposable income to repay her 
loans sustainably. I cant see that the credit checks found anything untoward that should 
have prompted further checks.
Mr Lender has already offered Mrs B what I would have required if I had upheld her 
complaint about loans five and six. The loans had been sold on, but I would have required 
Mr Lender to buy them back if I had upheld the complaint. And then I would have required it 
to refund the interest and charges Mrs B paid, with interest. This was offset against the 
balance of principal she owed for loan six and the rest was paid to her. And all references to 
the two loans were removed from Mrs Bs credit file. So I think this restored Mrs Bs position 
in keeping with our approach. And Ill not consider these two loans further here. 
Loan one and loan two were the starts of chains of borrowing and I think Mr Lender carried 
out proportionate and sufficient affordability checks for these two loans. 
Loans three and four were the second and third respectively in a chain. And I think Mr 
Lender should then have asked Mrs B about her income and outgoings and also about any 
other long or short-term financial commitments she may have had. I can see that Mr Lender 
did this and it also asked Mrs B the purpose for loan four. 
So I think Mr Lender carried out enough checks for loans one to four. And from the 
information it found, these looked sustainable for Mrs B. So I cant say it was wrong for Mr 
Lender to have provided them. 
Mrs B said she was borrowing constantly and using new loans to pay off previous ones. I 
accept that Mrs Bs actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information Mr Lender obtained. And Mrs Bs actual financial position 
might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been 
obtained. 
But Mr Lender could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mrs B, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Mrs B. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Mr Lender needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Mr Lender carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Mrs Bs actual 
financial position. 
Mr Lender relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Mrs Bs declared income and Mrs B lending history, I 
think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman