DRN-2619036
The complaint
Mr M complains that following his bankruptcy Phoenix Life Limited didnt make him aware 
that if he continued to make payments towards his life assurance policy, he may not benefit 
from a claim or its surrender value.
Phoenix Life took over the business of Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited. All 
references to Phoenix Life will include Abbey Life. 
Mr M has been represented. All references to Mr M includes information provided by his 
representative.
What happened
Mr M took out a whole of life assurance policy with Phoenix Life in late 1986. This policy was 
designed to pay a lump sum in the event of his death. It had an investment element and 
could be cashed in before death for a surrender value.
In April 1998 Mr M was declared bankrupt and the Official Receiver acting as trustee in 
bankruptcy (the trustee), wrote to Phoenix Life to let it know of their interest. Mr M asked 
Phoenix Life to surrender his policy in 2018. At this point Phoenix Life wrote to the trustee 
asking if they still retained an interest in the policy  the trustee confirmed that they did.
When Phoenix Life informed Mr M of the situation, he complained. He said that Phoenix Life 
hadnt acted fairly by allowing him to keep paying into the policy knowing he may not benefit 
from it. He said if Phoenix Life had told him this, he wouldve stopped making payments 
towards the policy. Mr M wanted a refund of the premiums hed paid since the bankruptcy 
order. He added that he thought Phoenix Lifes conduct breached its regulators duty to 
'act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She considered Phoenix Life had acted fairly 
when it informed the trustee of Mr Ms decision to cash in the policy. She didnt think it was 
for Phoenix Life to let Mr M know of the consequences of the bankruptcy order and that if he 
was unhappy about the way this was administered, this was something he needed to raise 
with the trustee.
Mr M disagreed. He remained unhappy that Phoenix Life hadnt told him he may not benefit 
from any claim under the policy. So he asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, I 
understand that Mr M has raised a number of points during his contact with this service. 
Although I may not mention every point he's raised, Ive considered everything Mr M has 
said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case.
As noted above, Mr M was made bankrupt in 1998 and in April of that year, Phoenix Life 
received a letter from the trustee about the order thatd been made. I can see this letter says 
that the interest in the policy now vested in the trustee  this meant any value of the policy 
passed to the bankrupts estate which could be used for the benefit of the creditors who 
were listed as at the date of the bankruptcy order. When Mr M asked to cash in the policy 
this triggered Phoenix Life to ask the trustee if they still retained an interest in the policy. 
Given the bankruptcy order and the legal implications of it, Im satisfied Phoenix Life acted 
reasonably and in accordance with usual practice in these circumstances.
 
In determining whether Phoenix Life should have notified Mr M about the trustees interest, I 
appreciate why he considers he should have been told. However, Phoenix Life was not 
under any obligation to, and I cant safely say it did anything wrong by not telling him. I 
consider it reasonable to expect that Mr M would have been kept informed by the trustee 
regarding the assets they held control of. If Mr M had any questions about what impact the 
bankruptcy had on his assets including the policy, this is something he couldve addressed 
with the trustee at that time or later.
Mr M says that Phoenix Life had many opportunities to let him know about the trustees 
interest in the policy. But as Ive said, this is something that would more likely than not have 
been communicated to Mr M by the trustee. When a person is made bankrupt they need to 
disclose their assets and liabilities (debts) to the trustee. It would have been through this 
process that Mr M would have been told about the implications of his bankruptcy. I think it 
was reasonable for Phoenix Life to continue to accept payments from Mr M on the 
assumption that hed made an informed decision about doing so. I dont think it needed to 
advise Mr M either to stop making payments or to continue to do so. 
All in all, I dont think Phoenix Life have acted unfairly or unreasonably in Mr Ms case. As 
our investigator has said, Mr M will need to speak with the trustee about the next steps in 
terms of the policy and its surrender value.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman