DRN-2533279
The complaint
Mr Rs unhappy with Arrow Global Limiteds actions when asking him to repay a debt on a 
credit card.
A number of other companies are involved in this complaint, but for any actions Arrow are 
responsible for, Ive just referred to them.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, and set out whatd happened, and what I thought was a fair 
way to resolve the complaint. 
Mr R says he was contacted out of the blue by a company collecting a debt on behalf of 
Arrow. They said he owed £5,024.52 and a default was recorded on his credit file. He asked 
them to send copies of the paperwork but never received satisfactory copies of these. He 
said he received a copy of the Consumer Credit Agreement (CCA), but elements of it werent 
legible. And he said there wasnt enough of an audit trail relating to account numbers 
between who he had the credit with previously, and this demand for payment. He also said 
the start date of the agreement didnt seem to be correct  and upon receiving a response to 
a Subject Access Request (SAR) hed made, he said theyd noted his marital status 
incorrectly. And he said the statements werent in the prescribed format, there were 
inconsistencies with his address, he disputed the outstanding balance, and the date of the 
default was potentially incorrect.
Mr R raised these issues to Arrow, and in summary they said:
Default  Mr Rs account was defaulted before they bought the debt. And said they 
were reporting a balance of £5,024.
CCA  they said the agreement had been signed by Mr R, and were satisfied theyd 
provided all they could  which was enough to satisfy the requirements of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Audit trail of account numbers  Mr Rs account has changed through a number of 
hands, but theyre satisfied the debt theyre asking him to repay is the same one as 
set out in the CCA.
Date of agreement  the CCA is signed on 25 March 2011, but the agreement had to 
be processed so 26 March 2011 is the correct date the agreement started.
SAR  they said sorry for the incorrect information being recorded.
Arrow also said sorry for some poor complaint handling and sent Mr R a cheque for £150. 
Arrow have since said this cheque was cashed in June 2019.
Unhappy with Arrows responses to his complaint Mr R asked us to look into things. One of 
our investigators did so and partially upheld Mr Rs complaint. He said Arrow needed to:
Amend the start date of the account to 25 March 2011 as there were transactions 
showing on this date.
Amend Mr Rs outstanding balance to £4,912.11 in line with the last statement 
available on the account.
This information needed to be reported correctly to the credit reference agencies.
And Arrow should pay Mr R a total of £250 for the distress hes been caused.
But our investigator felt the default had been applied fairly, the CCA was a good enough 
copy for the purposes of the Act, and the audit trail of the account was sufficient to prove this 
was Mr Rs account. And our investigator didnt feel there was anything we could do about 
Mr Rs concerns about his SAR, so suggested he get in touch with the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Arrow didnt accept this outcome. They argued the information they had showed the start 
date of the account as 26 March 2011 so wouldnt update it. They also said the balance of 
£5,024.52, rather than £4,912.11 is because of the statements saying interest would be 
added. Because of this, they said they couldnt agree to updating Mr Rs credit reference 
files and wouldnt agree to the compensation.
Initially Mr R said he accepted the outcome our investigator came to. But then said he found 
further information which meant he didnt think the debt had been proven to be his  so the 
default should be removed, the debt cleared, and they should pay him compensation. Mr R 
didnt mention the SAR in his reply to us.
So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly explain to both Mr R and Arrow that Ive read all the information theyve 
provided in detail. Given the long history of this complaint Ive not reflected everything Ive 
been told, but only information relevant to the outcome of this case. Ive also not considered 
the SAR Mr R originally complained about, as hes not mentioned this in his replies to us.
Is it fair for Arrow to ask Mr R to repay the debt
Mr R has provided a substantial amount of information and evidence to support his argument 
the debt isnt something Arrow can ask him to repay and is unenforceable. This includes 
arguments about the CCA not being a true copy, and that there isnt a good enough audit 
trail to prove the debt is his. But Mr R has also said he took out a credit card with the same 
company where the debt originated from.
I think its helpful to say at this point my role isnt to decide whether the agreement is 
enforceable as Mr R has asked. If Mr R wants to pursue whether the debt is enforceable, he 
may wish to seek legal advice. So, I wont be deciding whether Mr R has been provided with 
a true copy of the agreement  but simply whether Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for 
Arrow to ask Mr R to repay the debt.Mr R has said the reconstituted version of the CCA doesnt include the prescribed 
information as set out in the rules and there were inconsistencies with his address, so Arrow 
cant ask him to repay the debt. But I dont agree Arrow cant ask Mr R to repay the debt. Im 
satisfied weve been provided with sufficient evidence to demonstrate the debt Arrow has 
asked Mr R to repay is his.
This information includes an audit trail showing when his debt was transferred from his 
original lender, to another lender together with evidence to demonstrate Mr R was sent this 
information. And it includes enough information about the different account or customer 
numbers assigned to this debt when it was transferred to make me satisfied its the correct 
debt.
Mr R has also said the statements werent in the prescribed format. The result of this would 
mean Arrow cant charge interest on the outstanding balance, but they havent charged any 
interest, so I dont think this has had an impact on Mr R.
Also the address history with the different companies seem to match Mr Rs addresses. The 
account was run as is expected of an account. There doesnt seem to be a big dispute that 
the original debt was his  and that is where most of the balance has accumulated. Based 
on everything Ive seen, on balance I think Mr R took out this debt, he ran up the balance 
and managed the account as expected. And even though the debt has been sold on and 
had some changes of account numbers I think its the same debt. Because of this, Im 
satisfied Arrow isnt acting unfairly by seeking to recover the debt.
So, taking everything into account, Im currently satisfied on a fair and reasonable basis 
Arrow are allowed to ask Mr R to repay the debt.
Date of the default, and whether it should apply at all
Mr R has said he doesnt believe a default should be applied because Arrow havent proven 
the debt is his  but for the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied theyre currently acting 
fairly in asking him to repay it. So Ive gone on to consider if Arrow is fairly reporting the 
default.
In relation to the date, Mr R has said he was sent a letter in December 2014 saying his debt 
was going to be defaulted at the end of that month, so it shouldnt have been defaulted in 
May 2015. Because of this, as a minimum hes asked the date to be changed.
We asked Arrow about this. They explained the lender at this time of Mr Rs credit card had 
a policy where they would send a default notice if the account was 37 days in arrears. The 
default isnt applied until the account is 180 days in arrears.
This isnt unusual practice, as it gives consumers like Mr R an opportunity to bring an 
account into order before more serious consequences are applied. And I note the letter 
dated December 2014 doesnt say they will default his account, it says to avoid further 
consequences payments need to be made to the account. So, it seems likely this letter was 
the default notice sent after 37 days of no payment.
But, Ive looked at Mr Rs statements to show when the last payment was made to make 
sure the timeframe Arrow explained is whats actually happened to Mr Rs account.
The information I have shows the last payment made, that wasnt reversed, was 
1 September 2014. Theres another payment on 28 November 2014, but this payment was 
reversed  so I dont think it can reasonably count as a payment for the purposes of 
starting the default process.The default notice is dated 10 December 2014  which would mean, for Arrows explanation 
to be true, the last payment would need to have been made around the beginning of 
November 2014. But, the evidence I have shows the last payment was made two months 
earlier.
Because of this, I think Mr Rs account should have been defaulted two months earlier than it 
was. So, as Arrow have a responsibility to record the correct information, I currently plan to 
say Arrow need to amend the date of the default to be recorded as at the end of March 
2015, rather than end of May 2015.
Date of the credit agreement
Mr R says the date he took out the credit agreement was 25 March 2011 but says the date 
Arrow have recorded is 26 March 2011.
Arrow say the reason for this is because even though its true Mr R did sign the agreement 
on 25 March, theyve been told it took a day for the account to be processed  so its 
correctly recorded as 26 March and they wont be updating the date.
Mr R is making this argument because he believes it supports his position the account isnt 
his. But I cant agree with that for the reasons Ive explained above.
I do think though the date of agreement needs to be updated with the credit reference 
agencies. I say that because the statements I have for Mr Rs account show transactions on 
25 March 2011.
Arrow have said the agreement took a day to open, so thats why they say 26 March is right. 
Theyve also told us this is the information theyve been given  and I dont doubt that. But, 
the statements show transactions dated 25 March 2011  and no explanation has been 
provided for how transactions happened on an account that wasnt opened until the following 
day.
What should the outstanding balance be
Mr R says the balance of £5,024.52 which is what he was originally asked to repay hasnt 
been proven  and he can see that despite the information from Arrow saying the above 
figure, theyve been reporting £5,038 instead. But his most recent entry says £5,074. Our 
investigator felt it should be £4,912.11 as thats what the statements last showed  but Arrow 
argued those statements said interest was going to be added so its right the balance should 
be £5,024.52.
So, Ive looked at what the statements say on this point to understand what I think the fair 
and right outstanding balance should be.
The last statements I have show a balance of £4,912.11 and Ive seen nothing to show what 
else was added to this account and when. I accept Arrow have purchased the account in 
good faith, but Id expect to see some evidence to demonstrate the balance theyre reporting 
is accurate. So, I cant safely say the reason for the difference is interest that was applied 
after the last statement, and before Arrow bought the debt, as theyve said. Because of this, I 
cant say the balance of £5,024.52 is accurate  so I think the balance that should be 
reported is £4,912.11 as thats the last accurate figure weve been provided with.Compensation
Mr R has been speaking to Arrow on and off for around four years at this point. I recognise 
Arrow have at times tried to help Mr R  but had they dealt with his enquiries properly when 
he first got in touch then I think they could have avoided a significant amount of distress for 
him. Because of that, Im satisfied £250 total compensation is fair. I understand Mr R cashed 
the £150 compensation in June 2019, so this would be an additional £100 to be paid to him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Arrow didnt reply by the deadline set.
Mr R did reply, and raised a number of points which Ive summarised in my own words:
Hed received two letters showing the higher outstanding balances of £5,024.52 and 
£5,074.52. Hes also asked Arrow to explain this £50 increase, but no one has been 
able to. Hes asked us to get Arrow to explain why this additional charge was made.
Mr R says as Ive now found the account start date needs to be changed, hed like 
Arrow to send out corrected statements for the period of October 2016 to 
November 2020.
Mr R asks if Im saying theres enough information to show Arrow can ask him to 
repay the debt but isnt making a finding on the enforceability of the CCA. 
Mr R also asks if the latest version of the CCA is whats been offered as the final true 
copy of it.
He said he didnt say he took out the agreement on 25 March 2011 and wanted the 
wording of my decision changed to reflect that.
And although he accepts what Ive said is our services final position on his complaint, hes 
going to see some further advice about the CCA and will speak to Arrow also.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has asked us to speak to Arrow to find out why a £50 charge has seemingly been 
applied to his account as hes not been able to get an answer. But, I dont think thats 
necessary. I say that because the account is in effect being returned to the position it was in 
as at the last statement. So, even if Arrow did add a £50 charge in error, the effect of my 
decision removes that charge by reducing the balance to £4,912.11.
I can understand why Mr R would want corrected statements  particularly given hes going 
to be taking further advice. But its unclear to me what he wants corrected by the reissuing of 
statements. They show the first transactions happening on the account on 25 March 2011, 
which is the same date Im saying the statements need to be reset. And the statements also 
show the balance Im saying they should be  which is £4,912.11. If, in the future, Mr R 
needs to prove why something has changed, he can use this decision. In addition, Im also 
ordering Arrow to update their systems, so any future contact from Arrow or any other 
company about this debt should have the new updated account start date and balance on 
them.Mr R is correct about the finding Im making  Ive found enough evidence to say Arrow can 
fairly ask him to repay the debt, but I cant make any finding on the enforceability of the CCA 
for the reasons Ive explained above. I also cant comment on whether Arrow have provided 
us with the final true copy of the CCA  Mr R would need to speak to Arrow about that.
I do though accept I may have misquoted Mr R and for that I apologise. I cant see that he 
said he took out the agreement on 25 March 2011.
Overall though, as Arrow havent replied, and Mr R hasnt substantively disagreed with my 
provisional decision  I still think its appropriate for Arrow to carry out the actions I 
previously set out, and which Ive set out again in the next section.
Putting things right
In order to resolve this case I order Arrow Global Limited to:
Change the start date of the agreement with the credit reference agencies to 25 
March 2011.
Change the default date to end of March 2015 with the credit reference agencies.
Update the current outstanding balance, on their internal systems and with the credit 
reference agencies, to £4,912.11.
Pay Mr R a further £100 in compensation, to bring the total up to £250.
I would also encourage Mr R to try and work with Arrow to reach a fair repayment plan. 
Arrow are required to treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold this complaint, and order Arrow Global Limited to carry out the 
actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman