DRN-1464837
 
The complaint 
Mr D says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to him.  
                     
Background
This complaint is about six instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr D between June and 
December 2018. Mr Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 06/06/2018 28/06/2018 6 £400.00 £125.99
2 14/06/2018 28/06/2018 6 £200.00 £185.58
3 30/06/2018 05/07/2018 6 £600.00 £197.19
4 19/10/2018 Outstanding 6 £150.00 £50.00
5 28/11/2018 Outstanding 6 £400.00 £180.16
6 06/12/2018 Outstanding 6 £50.00 £195.57
 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ds complaint and thought loans 5 and 6 shouldnt have 
been given because proportionate checks would have shown Mr D was struggling to 
manage his money and he was becoming reliant on these types of loans. Sunny disagreed 
but offered to uphold loan 6. This offer was put to Mr D, but he rejected it. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny had carried out proportionate checks for loans 1 to 4. Mr D 
didnt respond to the view. As there is no dispute about these loans, I wont be making any 
findings on them. 
Sunny says it carried out checks before it lent loan 5 to Mr D and the results of these checks 
didnt raise any concerns. But as this was Mr Ds fifth loan in five months, I think Sunny 
should have been looking to build a clearer picture about Mr Ds finances before lending him 
this loan. 
Had Sunny carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 5, its likely to have found 
that Mr D was borrowing from other short-term lenders as well as having out-standing loans 
with Sunny itself. The repayments for these loans would have been increasing his monthly 
outgoings. This behaviour was most likely an indication he was in a cycle of debt and the 
further borrowing to cover the hole that repaying his previous loans were leaving in his 
finances. I think this has been proven by the fact that loans 4, 5 and 6 remain outstanding. 
Our adjudicator thought that the overall pattern of Mr Ds lending history with Sunny at the 
point of loan 6, was unsustainable and that further borrowing would have likely had negative implications on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit and kept him in the market for 
these kinds of high-cost loans. And our adjudicator said that all the information about this 
loan should be remove from Mr Ds credit file. But I dont agree. I dont think Mr D had been 
a customer of Sunnys for long enough for me to reasonably and fairly conclude that Sunny 
should have noticed a pattern. So only any adverse information should be removed from his 
credit file. 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 5 and 6 and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts Sunny should buy these back if Sunny is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Sunny cant buy the debts back, then Sunny should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Sunny should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Sunny has already refunded.
B) Sunny should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr D as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr D having made 
overpayments then Sunny should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr D. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr D. Sunny shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Sunny has already written-off.
E) Sunny should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to 
loans 5 and 6. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman