DRN-3983440
The complaint
Mrs P complains Santander UK Plc caused delays to a payment being made to a payee in 
Belarus whose account was held with a Russian bank. She says she experienced financial 
losses, stress, and inconvenience in trying to resolve the matter. She wants Santander to 
reimburse her losses and pay her compensation.
What happened
Mrs P wanted to make an international payment to purchase a puppy from abroad. She gave 
her payment instruction on 26 November 2021, fully expecting the payment to credit the 
payees bank shortly afterwards. The payment didnt go through when she expected.
Santander delayed processing the payment because they wanted further information about 
the purpose of the payment and supporting evidence, which Mrs P duly provided. From this 
point on there were numerous emails and calls between Mrs P and Santander. Mrs P 
wanted to ensure the payment would credit the payees bank in time for the delivery of her 
puppy, which is understandable. Mrs P feels she was lied to and misinformed about the 
status of the payment and would have acted differently had things been clearer.
The payment didnt reach the payees bank in time for delivery of the puppy. Mrs P arranged 
an overdraft increase with Santander so she could pay the courier in cash. She also 
requested a recall of her payment, the time of which she disputes because she says she 
asked to recall the payment earlier.
As this was an international payment, a correspondent bank in Spain was involved, so the 
payment was not simply a matter of Santander sending it directly to the payees bank. This 
kind of arrangement is common when international payments are made, as banks dont 
always have direct banking relationships with one another.
Eventually the payee confirmed to Mrs P that they received her payment. Meanwhile 
Santander had been chasing the recall of the payment, and eventually it was returned to   
Mrs P on 6 January 2022.  Due to the exchange rate being different at that time she received 
a lesser sum in pounds than she had sent.
Santander agreed to refund the international payment fee, pay a small sum to cover 
overdraft charges incurred by having the money out of her account for a long time, and a 
small sum in compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ps complaint and concluded:
Santander sent the payment to the correspondent bank on 6 December 2021. This 
was after completing their checks, which were important as international sanctions 
existed at that time in relation to Belarus where the payee lived, and Russia.
Santander recalled the payment at Mrs Ps request, and they were not responsible 
for the delays caused by the correspondent bank carrying out its own checks or the 
payees bank taking time to return the payment. Their terms and conditions also said 
they werent liable for delays to international payments when they were caused by 
these kinds of checks.
Mrs P was unhappy with the outcome. She insists she asked her payment to be recalled 
earlier than it was over the telephone several times, and in particular in an email she sent on 
3 December 2021. She asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so her complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs P says she was misinformed multiple times about the status and whereabouts of her 
payment, and she was told different things at different times by various Santander call 
handlers. As a result, she doubts the chronology of events and believes she could have 
taken action to prevent the losses she went on to experience, primarily by stopping the 
payment being sent by Santander.
I acknowledge its possible Mrs P was given incorrect information at times. But looking at 
Santanders internal and external emails and system records for the payment and its recall, 
Im satisfied:
Santander received the payment instruction from Mrs P on 26 November 2021
The payment went through internal checks for regulatory and legal compliance and 
was sent to the correspondent bank abroad on 6 December 2021.
The request for a payment recall was made on 10 December 2021 and Santander 
chased the payment several times.
The payees bank eventually returned the payment on 6 January 2022, which was a 
lesser sum due to changes in the exchange rate.
My focus then is on deciding whether Santander should have done things differently, and 
whether that would have prevented the loss Mrs P experienced.
I understand Mrs P says she requested Santander to recall her payment if it hadnt reached 
the payees bank by 6 December 2021. She said this in an email on 3 December 2021. She 
also received an email from Santander saying the payment had been approved and should 
reach the payees bank on 6 December 2021. But I can also see she entered into email 
dialogue on and after 6 December with Santander and the recall request was put through 
when she communicated that she had decided to make an alternative arrangement.
I appreciate Mrs Ps point, but the evidence leans towards her being prepared to wait longer 
for the payment to hit the payees account than 6 December 2021. I say this because there 
was still time for the payment to go through before the puppy was delivered, and because 
she was told the payment had already been sent to the correspondent bank, even if this 
message became blurred later on. I do believe she would have wanted to cancel the 
payment had she known it wouldnt credit the payees bank by 10 December 2021, but 
neither Mrs P nor Santander would have known it wouldnt at that time. So, I dont find Santander should have recalled the payment on 6 December 2021 based on what Mrs P 
had previously requested. 
Mrs P says she requested a payment recall multiple times on the phone. But based on her 
own detailed timeline, she says she made phone calls to Santander on 3 December 2021 
and from 6 December 2021 onwards, by which time the payment had been sent. She hasnt 
said she called Santander on 4 or 5 December 2021 asking to recall the payment. But, even 
if she made recall requests on or after 6 December 2021 (once the payment had been sent) 
and before 10 December 2021, I cannot reliably conclude she would have received the 
payment back sooner and or that her losses would have been less than they were. The 
control of the payment had already passed to the correspondent bank.
Based on the timeline Mrs P presented, Santanders complaint handler told her the payment 
was still with their security team on 8 December 2021, which if true must have been 
confusing. Its possible she was told this or it could have just been a misunderstanding. But 
Santanders records show the complaint handler was told by email that the payment was 
sent to the correspondent bank on 6 December 2021, so it couldnt be cancelled or 
automatically refunded, and any recall request would be on a best endeavours basis. So, 
whether or not there was miscommunication by the complaint handler, Mrs P would still have 
been unable to get her payment back immediately.
Mrs P referred to Santanders published timeframes for international payments. But 
Santander has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to customers, which includes ensuring no UK or other international sanctions might 
be breached. Those obligations are overriding in terms of otherwise meeting general 
timeframes for payments to process. And this is the same for every bank. This does mean 
that sometimes legitimate payments are justifiably delayed.
Santander will monitor accounts and carry out specific or occasional checks to comply with 
its responsibilities. Here, Santander wanted further information about the payment Mrs P 
instructed them to make, along with supporting evidence which she provided promptly. 
Having reviewed Santanders actions, Im satisfied their hold on the payment to carry out 
checks was legitimate and reasonable. I also find they processed the payment in a 
reasonable time following receipt of the information Mrs P provided.
Im satisfied once the payment left Santander on 6 December 2021 they were no longer 
responsible for subsequent delays cause by the correspondent bank. Nor were they 
responsible for the length of time it took for the payment to be returned to Mrs Ps Santander 
account. Based on Santanders records of communication, I see they actively pursued the 
payment recall once the request was put through. So, I find they were doing what they could 
to get the payment back. 
After careful consideration I am not directing Santander to reimburse Mrs P for the financial 
loss she experienced due to the exchange rate changing, the cost to her in making phone 
calls and taking time off work to try to resolve the situation, or the consequential losses she 
experienced by not having the level of funds in her account that she planned at a time when 
they were really needed. She has my sympathy that she experienced these losses, and it 
cant have been easy for her, but I am not holding Santanders liable.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman