DRN-3515409
The complaint
Mr A, who is represented by a third party, complains that First Response Finance Ltd 
(First Response) irresponsibly gave him credit by way of a hire purchase sale agreement 
he says he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2016, Mr A acquired a used car financed by a fixed term hire purchase 
agreement from First Response. Mr A was then required to make 36 monthly repayments of 
£133.88. The total repayable under the agreement was £4,819.68. The account was settled 
in full in January 2019.
Mr A says that First Response didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. 
First Response didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included 
a search of Mr As credit file and checking his income and expenditure. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
They thought First Response didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance 
agreement. 
As Mr A and those representing him didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Response will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think First Response gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr A about his ability to repay. I say this because it 
completed a credit check in order to understand how Mr A had managed existing and 
previous finance arrangements. It also verified Mr As income, asked him to provide details 
of his regular monthly outgoings and bank statements.
However, just because I think First Response carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. Ive therefore reviewed the information 
and evidence First Response gathered. Having done so Im satisfied that the checks that 
were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to Mr A. I say this 
because Ive seen that from carrying out its credit check, First Response was aware of two 
previous credit defaults from around two years prior to Mr A taking out the agreement, one of 
them a pay day loan. Also, whilst First Response saw some payment issues had occurred 
with other borrowing, including other pay day loans - these again were two years before the 
agreement and the accounts had since been managed without problems. Finally, the bank 
statements provided by Mr A showed he had an overdraft that was being kept at a consistent 
level. 
Having completed these checks, First Response calculated that Mr A had enough 
disposable income to afford the agreement. Whilst the historical default and other payment 
issues suggests that Mr A may have had some past financial difficulty, by the time he took 
out the agreement he appeared to be in much better control of his financial and debt 
commitments.  
Taking all of this into account, it follows that I dont think First Response acted unfairly when 
approving the finance application. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman