DRN-1514258
 
The complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), irresponsibly 
lent to him. Mr M has told us he was in a cycle of debt and had borrowing with other short-
term lenders as well as Satsuma.  
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan Satsuma provided to Mr M in July 2017. Mr Ms 
loan was for £1,000 and was to be repaid over 12 months. The monthly repayment was 
£166. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They thought the checks Satsuma had 
carried out before lending to him were reasonable and the information it obtained wouldnt 
have given it any cause to reconsider giving him the loan. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicator. He explained how bad his financial circumstances were 
at the time of the borrowing, he was borrowing from other short-term lenders and that he had 
to take a second job. He says he shouldnt have been given the lending.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried before approving the borrowing. 
This included information about Mr Ms income and expenditure to establish whether the 
loan was affordable to Mr M. It also included a credit risk assessment. 
Mr M was employed, and his earnings were recorded as being £1,750 a month. His 
expenditure was £1,150 a month to which Satsuma added a buffer amount of £65 per 
month. So, this would have left Mr M with a disposable monthly income of £369 after taking 
account of the monthly loan repayments. Taking this into account I dont think the loan looks 
unaffordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.  But I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Mr M provided to Satsuma which would have caused it to be concerned that 
he was having problems managing his finances. 
Its possible that Mr Ms financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or any other information Satsuma obtained. And if his 
circumstances were different, Mr Ms actual financial position may well have been more 
apparent if further information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  
had been obtained. Mr M has given us a copy of his bank statements and I see that he was 
using other short-term credit providers, but I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to have 
gathered this information at the first point of lending to him. 
Satsuma could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
That information  and the fact the loan was the beginning of the lending relationship  
I dont think indicated there was a greater risk of the loan being unaffordable or 
unsustainable for Mr M. In these circumstances, I dont think Satsuma needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Mr M for evidence of his income and outgoings which 
Satsuma could have gathered from his bank statements or copies of any bills, as examples. 
I have considered the information Satsuma was provided with before it lent to Mr M. And 
there isnt anything in this information that may have led Satsuma to conclude that it should 
decline Mr Ms application for the loan. And there isnt anything to have prompted it to ask for 
more information from Mr M. So, I dont think Satsuma was wrong to have provided this loan, 
based solely on the information it had.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Satsuma did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mr M wasnt unreasonable. I appreciate my 
conclusion to Mr Ms complaint will be a disappointment to him, but I hope I have managed 
to explain how and why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman