DRN-2200419
The complaint
Mr W complained about three cash withdrawals, totalling £900, which were debited to his 
account with Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard. Mr W says he didnt authorise 
any of these.
What happened
When Mr W received his February 2020 Barclaycard statement, he phoned Barclays and 
said that he hadnt made three transactions which were on the statement. They were all 
made at the same cash machine, and all of them withdrew £300 cash. The dates were 4 
February, 6 February and 12 February. Barclays sent Mr W a form to complete, and it 
stopped his current card and sent him a replacement. Mr W also wrote to Barclays, saying 
hed been at work all day on the relevant dates. In the evenings, hed been at his fathers 
house on 4 February, at home on 6 February, and at a pub with former colleagues on 12 
February.
When Barclays finished its investigation, it held Mr W liable for the three withdrawals. There 
was no CCTV at the location, but in its final response letter, Barclays explained that Mr W 
had said the card hadnt been lost or stolen, and that it hadnt been out of his possession. 
Hed also told Barclays that no-one had access to his card or knew his PIN. Barclays had 
evidence that the withdrawals had all been made on the genuine card, not a cloned card, 
and the right PIN had been used. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Mr W told our investigator that he lived alone and didnt often have visitors, and he didnt 
have any workers such as cleaners or builders. He said hed never been to the cash 
machine where the withdrawals had taken place, and he didnt know where it was. He said 
he usually used a cash machine inside the casino, where he used the withdrawals to 
gamble, but didnt use any other cash machines. 
Our investigator told Mr W that Barclays records for another of Mr Ws accounts showed 
that he had used the cash machine where the disputed Barclaycard withdrawals had taken 
place. And Mr W hadnt disputed those. Mr W replied that he didnt know about those 
withdrawals, so Barclays now owed him more.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. She saw the electronic evidence that the 
genuine card had been used, the genuine chip in the card had been read, and the correct 
PIN had been entered. So the investigator said that either the transactions had been carried 
out by someone without Mr Ws consent, or hed carried out the transactions. And as Mr W 
had said he hadnt lost the card, a third party would have had to take the card, carry out the 
transactions and return the card. The investigator considered that Mr W had carried out the 
transactions himself.
Mr W didnt agree. He said that on two of the occasions when the disputed transactions took 
place, he couldnt have physically used the card. He confirmed the card had been in his 
possession.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations which apply to Mr Ws complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Barclays) must show the payment 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Mr Ws genuine card with its chip, 
and the correct PIN, were used. Ive seen the electronic evidence which confirms both of 
these things, for all three disputed withdrawals. So the disputed withdrawals were 
authenticated.
Id also explain that although there is often talk about cards being cloned, cloning only takes 
a sort of photo of the card. Cloned cards have been used for things like telephone or online 
transactions where the actual card isnt presented. But cloned cards wont work where a 
card is physically presented  for example in a cash machine  because the chip is read. 
Chip technology is complex and sophisticated and there have been no known instances 
when the chip in the card has been successfully copied. So, if a cash machine reads the 
chip in the card and its a cloned card, the transaction will be rejected. And if a cash machine 
confirms that its the genuine card, it really is. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. So Ive gone on to look at whether Mr W 
authorised the payments.
Mr W told us that he hadnt lost his card, which was in his possession. The investigator also 
checked whether someone Mr W knew could have stolen and returned the card  but Mr W 
said he lived alone. He said he hadnt had any workers into his home, and any visitors 
wouldnt have gone upstairs where he kept his card. 
And even if any unauthorised person had somehow managed to get Mr Ws card, and return 
it to him afterwards without Mr W knowing, there is still the problem of the PIN. The correct 
PIN was entered  so any fraudster would have had to find a way of getting to know this too.
The pattern is also wrong for a fraud. If any fraudster had somehow managed to get Mr Ws 
genuine card and find out his PIN, its most likely that theyd have taken out the maximum 
amount of money straightaway. Fraudsters wouldnt typically wait a few days between 
transactions. Theyd take as much out as possible at once, before the card could be 
stopped.
Finally, Mr W told our investigator that hed never been to the cash machine where the 
withdrawals had taken place, and he didnt know where it was. But Ive seen evidence that 
shows that Mr W carried out cash withdrawals from his other Barclays account at that same 
cash machine  one of which was on the same day as the disputed transaction from his 
Barclaycard. Mr W didnt complain that these other withdrawals from the same machine 
were fraudulent. I know he told our investigator in July 2020 that he didnt know about these 
and Barclays owed him for these as well. But Mr W would have received statements in 
February and March, so I cant see a valid reason why he wouldnt have complained about 
the cash machine transactions on both accounts, if he really didnt know and hadnt used 
that machine.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its most likely that Mr W carried out the 
withdrawals himself, and I dont require Barclays to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman