DRN-3609873
The complaint
The estate of Mrs M is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) 
handling of a subsidence claim made under the late Mrs Ms home insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2018 the late Mrs M noticed movement of her conservatory and reported 
suspected subsidence to RSA, her home insurance provider.
There were delays in a site visit being arranged by RSA, and this was carried out in 
January 2019. There were then delays in the findings being reviewed, and ultimately the 
claim wasnt accepted by RSA until April 2019. After this, monitoring took place, and the 
vegetation suspected of causing subsidence was removed, along with drainage repairs 
being completed.
Further monitoring was required but was delayed due to wider circumstances relating to the 
outside environment at the time. And Mrs M also asked for this to be further delayed due to 
her personal circumstances.
Mrs M sadly passed away in September 2020. And her daughter, one of the executors of the 
estate of Mrs M, took over the day to day managing and handling of the claim. The property 
was deemed stable in December 2020, but there were delays in authorising the repair works 
until March 2021. Works started shortly after.
A complaint was raised with RSA about the handling of the claim and time taken. RSA 
accepted there had been delays and poor handling and offered £750 compensation to the 
estate of Mrs M in July 2021.
Following this, there were a number of further issues with the claim including delays and 
repairs not being completed satisfactorily. Ultimately the claim was finalised, and repairs fully 
completed, in February 2022.
The estate of Mrs M was unhappy with RSAs handling of the claim and asked this service to 
look into things.
RSA had only issued a formal complaint final response about events up to July 2021 (and 
offered £750 compensation). But RSA consented to us considering events post July 2021 
too.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. He said that RSA 
werent solely responsible for all the delays incurred in the early stages. He recognised that 
RSA had offered £750 for events up to July 2021 and said that was more than he wouldve 
recommended for what had happened before that point.
The investigator considered events post July 2021. He recognised there were a number of 
delays, claim issues and poor service. However, he noted one of the executors had 
complained about the impact, distress and inconvenience to them directly whilst acting as 
representative and handling the claim on behalf of the estate of Mrs M.
The investigator said he could only consider the inconvenience to the estate of Mrs M, and 
that he couldnt compensate an individual representative for the impact, distress or 
inconvenience to them personally, whilst they were acting as a representative. 
The investigator noted the estate of Mrs M had alleged that due to RSAs claim handling, it 
had incurred additional costs relating to the property. But he said that whilst there had been 
delays, it was impossible to say when the property wouldve sold, or when the expenses that 
the estate of Mrs M wouldve otherwise been responsible for most likely would have ended. 
However, he said the property might have been placed on the market sooner, so for the 
inconvenience to the estate of Mrs M, he recommended a further £400 compensation be 
paid. But he didnt recommend RSA cover the costs the estate of Mrs M had asked for.
RSA accepted the investigators recommendations and increased compensation. The estate 
of Mrs M didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend on commenting individually on every event or action that occurred throughout 
the history of the claim. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, but both parties are 
already aware of what has happened, and it isnt disputed. And RSA accepts there have 
been service failings during the claim, which is why they offered compensation in July 2021, 
and accepted the investigators recommendations for further compensation. 
Instead, Ill focus on what I believe is important in reaching a decision which is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And Ill reference some of the key things 
that happened. Having said that though, Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered 
all the information theyve provided when reaching my final decision.
There are two distinctly different parts to this claim and complaint, and itll be helpful for me 
to explain that first, before outlining my findings.
Mrs M made her claim in September 2018. Sadly, she passed away in September 2020. I 
can consider the impact to Mrs M during this time. She was the policyholder; it was her 
policy and she was the customer of RSA.
When Mrs M sadly passed away, the policyholder then became the estate of Mrs M.
Under the rules which allow us to consider complaints (the DISP rules in the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook  available on their website), this explains that the complaint 
needs to be brought to this service by an eligible complainant. The eligible complainant here, 
after Mrs M sadly passed away, is the estate of Mrs M. As it is an estate, it cant suffer 
distress, but it can suffer inconvenience.
Whilst I recognise one of the executors chose to act as representative of the estate of 
Mrs M and handled the claim on the estates behalf, they arent the policyholder, or an 
eligible complainant in their own right or personal capacity, instead the estate of Mrs M is. 
This means I cant consider the impact, distress or inconvenience to the representative 
personally, as they arent an eligible complainant in their own right. Therefore, Ill be 
considering the inconvenience to the estate of Mrs M after it became the policyholder.With any claim there will always be a level of inconvenience, and here the inconvenience 
and poor service was experienced directly by Mrs M, until the estate then took over matters. 
And it is accepted by all parties that the claim was handled poorly, there were delays and a 
number of other service issues throughout the duration of the claim. 
For example, there were several months delays in the first site visit occurring, and then 
subsequent delays in the outcome of that site visit being reviewed and the claim being 
accepted. This then caused a delay in monitoring, which needed to be completed, along with 
drain repairs, to ensure the property was no longer moving and was stable.
There were some periods where RSA wasnt solely responsible for the delay though, 
including wider restrictions in the outside environment, and Mrs M asking for things to be 
delayed due to her personal circumstances. And monitoring a property to check it has 
stopped moving will always take an extended period of time due to its very nature.
But when the estate of Mrs M was then involved, there were delays between the property 
being confirmed as stable, and the repair costs being authorised by RSA. And RSAs 
concern over repair works and costs from quotes they obtained caused further delays when 
further assessment was needed.
RSA recognised the claim hadnt been handled reasonably and paid £750 compensation up 
to July 2021. And I dont think that amount at that time was unreasonable in the 
circumstances for the impact to Mrs M initially, and later, the inconvenience to the estate of 
Mrs M.
After this though, there were multiple issues and delays which caused the repairs to take 
much longer than they were initially scheduled for. Im not going to revisit every single event 
that went wrong, but it is clear from the information that things didnt go smoothly, there were 
clear periods of avoidable delays, and the estate of Mrs M needed to chase for regular 
updates on the claim.
Some delays were outside RSAs control, for example, a shortage of available contractors 
and a ten-week lead time for a new conservatory, which arrived and had a windowpane 
broken which needed replacing.
Its also not unusual for snagging works to be required after initial main works are completed, 
which is what happened here, from electrical works to the plumbing. And it does seem there 
was difficulty in these being completed, due to contractor availability, and unplanned 
unforeseen events such as vehicle accidents and tradesmen suffering personal injuries. 
Having considered everything though, whilst RSA offered £750 compensation, up to 
July 2021, I also think further compensation is warranted beyond that too. This is to take into 
account the impact on the estate of Mrs M. But as I say, I cant make awards for the 
personal impact, distress or inconvenience to the representatives personally or individually. 
Having considered everything, I think a further £400 compensation is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case.
However, whilst Im directing RSA to pay additional compensation, separately Im not going 
to direct RSA to pay what the estate of Mrs M has additionally asked for - £10 per email that 
was sent by the estate, £5 per phone call made, or a fee for each individual visit to the 
property that needed to be made. With any claim there will be inconvenience naturally as a 
result of being in a claim situation, calls and emails, and visits to the property will always be 
required. And that responsibility was passed to the estate of Mrs M when she sadly passed away. Whilst Im not directing RSA to pay those amounts asked for, Ive taken into account 
that things did go wrong when considering the appropriate level of compensation overall.
The estate of Mrs M also says that due to RSAs poor handling of the claim, this then led to a 
delay in the property being able to be marketed for sale. Theyve said as a result theyd like 
RSA to pay for all utilities, insurance, gardening, council tax, weekly checks on the property, 
fuel and loss of interest on funds from the sale of the property.
However, these costs would always have been the responsibility of the estate of Mrs M after 
she sadly passed away. And from the information, an estate agent was appointed in 
January 2022. I accept there were delays in works overall being completed, but also note 
some outstanding works were snagging works and relatively minor, in fact the 
correspondence reflects the estate agent was doing viewings whilst this was ongoing after 
being appointed by the estate of Mrs M in January 2022.
In any event, whilst the property mightve potentially have been able to be marketed by an 
agent sooner, its impossible to determine with certainty whether it wouldve sold at an earlier 
point in time, or consequently whether those natural costs wouldve ceased to be the 
responsibility of the estate of Mrs M at any time earlier.
With this in mind, Im not going to ask RSA to cover the costs the estate of Mrs M have 
asked for. But I do accept there was poor claim handling and delays which lengthened the 
overall timescale, which is why Im directing RSA to pay £400 additional compensation, as 
Ive outlined above.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited need to:
in addition to the compensation already offered, pay the estate of Mrs M a further 
£400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman