DRN-3757220
The complaint
  Mr W is a sole trader of a business I refer to as L. He complains that National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly suspended his business account which caused L to suffer 
financial loss. 
What happened
 The background to this case is well known to the parties and so, I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, Mr W has told us that:
On 22 March 2022, he was unable to pay a supplier for materials for work he was 
scheduled to undertake. He was also unable to access his business account through 
his mobile app and neither could he do so, using his office computer. So, he 
contacted NatWest to find out what was happening. 
The following day, on 23 March, the banks fraud department contacted Mr W to say 
his account was suspended because one of his customers had disputed a £280 
payment hed made to him. Mr W also discovered that as well as his business 
account, the bank had also suspended other accounts belonging to him  including 
his personal and credit card accounts. The bank had also debited the £280 payment 
from Mr Ws account. 
After Mr W contacted his customer, who acknowledged hed forgotten making the 
payment for work Mr W had carried out for him two weeks earlier, on 23 March 2022 
Mr W reported this back to NatWest. NatWest said they lifted their suspension on 
the business account on 24 March 2022, at which time they also credited the £280 
payment back to that account. Mr W believes this happened a day later  on 25 
March 2022. 
Mr W said the period over which his accounts were suspended not only 
inconvenienced him but also caused his business financial loss. He said he was 
unable to buy materials to continue working and therefore L suffered loss of earnings 
of approximately £1600 when he had to cancel pre-planned work. He also said that 
because his personal account was suspended, he was unable to buy food. 
NatWest didnt think theyd done anything wrong. Although they acknowledged Mr W 
had lost out on work because of their action, nonetheless, they said having received 
a report of suspected fraud associated with the £280 payment, they had to act by 
applying restrictions on Mr Ws accounts. However, as a gesture of goodwill 
NatWest offered and later paid Mr W £200 compensation. 
Mr W didnt think the compensation was reasonable and therefore, the complaint 
remained unresolved. So, Mr W referred it to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. She didnt think the bank acted 
unfairly or unreasonably after receiving information from the bank of Mr Ws 
customer indicating there was potential fraud associated with the payment 
mentioned. 
Against that background, she said it was standard banking practice to place 
restrictions on all the accounts belonging to a customer, in order to limit access to 
funds contained in them. She said she believed the terms and conditions of Mr Ws 
account allowed the bank to take such action and afterwards to carry out various 
checks to satisfy itself no fraud had taken place. The investigator didnt think the 
three days it took NatWest to carry out those checks was excessive or 
unreasonable.  
Mr W didnt accept the investigators overall conclusions and has presented detailed 
arguments as to why. In keeping with the informal nature of our service, I summarise 
what I consider to be the key points. Mr W says:
oHe accepts that when there is reasonable suspicion of fraud, a bank is 
entitled to investigate the matter  including suspending the affected 
account. But nothing in the terms and conditions of his business account 
alerted him to the possibility that if there was a suspicion of fraud associated 
with it, all his other accounts with the bank could also be frozen. In 
particular, in circumstances where there was no suspicion of fraud 
simultaneously affecting those accounts. 
oIn any event there was no reasonable suspicion of fraud in his case. All that 
had happened was that a customer failed to recognise a transaction and the 
customers bank contacted NatWest to say the payment he made may have 
been sent in error. The appropriate action NatWest should therefore have 
taken is set out in section 8.3 of the terms and conditions of the business 
account  which is to hold the money and contact him to tell him what had 
happened. That should only have needed a phone call. That being the case, 
none of his accounts should have been suspended. NatWests action was 
therefore disproportionate. 
oSection 5.3 of the business account terms and conditions doesnt support 
NatWests action in any event. It says the bank may suspend or restrict the 
use of the account or certain services such card or online banking if the 
bank reasonably suspects the account holder was involved in fraud or other 
criminal activity. The use the term may demonstrates that the bank had a 
discretion and were not compelled to suspend his accounts.
oIf the bank had at least allowed him to use his credit card account, he could 
have continued to access funds and be able to work so that his losses could 
have been minimised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 NatWest have relied on clause 5.3 of the terms and conditions of Mr Ws business account 
for taking the action they did in March 2022. Mr W disputes the clause conferred that 
authority on the bank. I start therefore with clause 5.3. The most relevant section states: 
 Limiting the use of your account or your services 
- We may suspend, restrict or stop access to your account or to certain services (such as 
your debit card or online banking) if:
we reasonably suspect your account or any other account you hold with us (or 
another member of NatWest Group) has been, is being or is likely to be used for an 
illegal purpose;
we reasonably suspect youre involved in fraud or other criminal activity.
Well usually tell you before or immediately after we take any of these steps. Well also 
explain why weve done so, unless were unable to contact you or theres a legal or security 
reason which means we cant provide an explanation.
NatWest have told us that the initial report from the bank of Mr Ws customer was received 
on 21 March 2022 at 16:27 via an automated system. They said they were advised that 
there was fraud associated with the £280 payment that had been made on 11 March 2022 to 
Mr W. And because this happened by way of that automated system, in accordance with 
usual practice, a stop was placed Mr Ws business and other accounts held with the bank. 
This was done to prevent funds leaving - including any transfer between those accounts. 
NatWest said Mr Ws case was then passed on for investigation the same day. 
Although Mr W doesnt believe there was any reasonable suspicion of fraud surrounding the 
disputed £280 payment, I am satisfied the alert that NatWest received was to that effect. In 
other words, Im satisfied NatWest did not receive notification that the £280 payment was 
sent to Mr W incorrectly, which in the circumstances might reasonably have triggered the 
response covered by clause 8.3 to which Mr W has referred. 
In suspending Mr Ws business, personal and credit card accounts Mr W believes NatWest 
acted disproportionately. In particular, he says, because section 5.3 of the terms and 
conditions of his business account did not give the bank the right to suspend all his accounts 
when there was no alleged fraud associated with them. 
But given the report the bank received, Im satisfied that clause 5.3 of the terms and 
conditions does give NatWest the right to suspend Mr Ws business account, pending the 
banks investigation. The bank has explained that given the nature of the notification, the 
restriction was placed on other accounts also to guard against the possibility the disputed 
funds might be moved between accounts. Although in this instance it was ultimately shown 
that there was no fraud involved, given the concern, I cant say that NatWest acted 
unreasonably when they suspended Mr Ws other accounts until theyd properly investigated 
the matter and was satisfied no fraud had taken place.  
That being said, I note clause 5.3 does state the bank will usually tell its customer before or 
immediately after it takes any of these steps. Mr W found out what had happened the day 
after the bank suspended his accounts. In other words, on 22 March 2022. So, Ive thought 
about whether NatWest acted quickly enough to alert Mr W to their actions.
The bank has told us it received the fraud notification from the bank of Mr Ws client at 16:27 
by way of an automated system. And after applying the suspension, NatWest further explain that due to workload they are unable to contact customers. They said in such circumstances 
the fraud team expects the customer to contact the bank. 
However, in this connection the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account are clear. They say 
that in these circumstances the bank would usually contact the customer before or 
immediately after taking steps to suspend their accounts. Im not persuaded that workload 
alone sufficiently absolves the bank of the obligation set out in Clause 5.3. 
Mr W has said that he discovered there was a problem on 22 March 2022 at 07:30, when he 
attempted unsuccessfully to purchase materials. That was before opening hours at the bank. 
Hes told us he called the bank at around 08:30 but he was unable to get through to the 
fraud team. 
On 23 March 2022 after sending an e-mail to the fraud team they, in turn contacted Mr W to 
let him know the reason for the suspension. 
Mr W reported back the same day to the bank that there was no fraud and that in fact it was 
simply that his client had forgotten making the payment. After exchanges of e-mails the 
suspension on the business account was lifted the following day on 24 March 2022 and Mr 
W was able to make purchases using his business account. 
After carefully considering the timeline, although on the face of it the three days it took 
NatWest to lift the suspension on Mr Ws business account dont appear to be substantial, 
Mr W was understandably concerned and, on balance, I do think NatWest could have 
handled this matter a bit more quickly. Indeed, NatWest have acknowledged for example 
that it took longer than it should - by an extra day - to remove the suspension on Mr Ws 
personal account which happened on 25 March 2022. 
But Mr W had access to funds in the business account, on 24 March 2022 and it seems he 
was able to and did indeed use the business account for transactions. So, whilst I 
acknowledge Mr W suffered some inconvenience, Ive borne in mind NatWest has already 
paid him £200 in compensation  
My final decision
 Given the above, Im satisfied the £200 compensation National Westminster Bank 
Plc have paid Mr W is fair and reasonable in this case. I dont require National 
Westminster Bank Plc to do anything more than this, in respect of Mr Ws 
complaint  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman