DRN-2069240
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Nationwide Building Society has dealt with him when and 
after he paid in cheques at its ATMs. 
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H is unhappy with the way hes been dealt with by Nationwide. He says he was 
able to pay in cheques for over £20,000 at an ATM despite this being over the stated 
limit of £2,000. And when he later checked the position, he was wrongly told he had 
paid them in over the counter.
Nationwide has confirmed the cheques were paid in through an external ATM before 
the branch opened to the public. As a result, there were no restrictions on the 
amounts that could be accepted, and the cheques were paid in by its staff over the 
counter after they had collected them from the ATM.
Although Nationwide was therefore correct in saying the cheques were paid in over 
the counter it clearly couldve communicated with Mr H better, more clearly and 
accurately at times. But it has fully explained the position, apologised for what 
happened and any misunderstandings or offence caused. Thats reasonable. I also 
note, that Mr Hs cheques were paid in promptly and without any problem.
Mr H remains unhappy and says he was belittled by what happened. He would like to 
be paid some compensation. All consumers spend some time and experience some 
additional inconvenience in dealing with a problem, making a complaint and putting 
things right. We wouldnt generally recommend theyre compensated for this and 
although I recognise Mr Hs frustration, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably 
depart from this approach in this case. 
Overall, although I recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling, I dont think on balance that I 
can fairly or reasonably ask Nationwide to do anything more including paying any 
compensation as hed like.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman