DRN-3192991
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Northern Bank Limited, trading as Danske Bank, didnt seek
clarification regarding instructions for a monetary transfer that Mr K provided.
What happened
Mr K made a request using his online banking to transfer £2,000 to a recipient account. Mr K
instructed the transfer through the transfer funds abroad screen as he wanted to transfer
the funds to an overseas account in his name. However, Mr K accidentally selected another
existing payee, and the instruction was therefore to send to that existing payees UK
account.
As the transfer had been instructed through the overseas transfer option, Mr K was charged
£30 for the transfer. And when the request was received at Danskes processing centre, they
added a swift code to the payment to ensure that the transfer was processed as instructed.
When Mr K didnt receive the funds into his overseas account, he called Danske and
discovered that the funds had been sent to the wrong recipient. Mr K contacted the recipient
and after some time did receive some of the transferred funds back, although only £1,700 of
the £2,000 that was sent. Mr K wasnt happy about this, and he felt that Danske should have
done more to protect his interests, and so he raised a complaint.
Danske looked at Mr Ks complaint. It felt that it had processed the transfer in accordance
with Mr Ks request, although it did agree to reimburse to Mr K the £30 that it had charged
for the transfer as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Danskes response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They also didnt feel that Danske had done
anything wrong by completing the transfer in line with Mr Ks instructions, but they did feel
that Danske should further reimburse Mr K a total of £42, comprising exchange rate and
returning fees incurred by the party returning the funds to Mr K. But they didnt feel that
Danske should be asked to reimburse the £300 that Mr K hadnt received from the recipient
as Mr K wanted.
Mr K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 November 2021 as follows:
I can understand how it must be disappointing for Mr K to have not been able to 
recover the full amount of money that he transferred to the unintended recipient. Im 
also aware that Mr K feels that Danske shouldnt have transferred the money to the 
incorrectly instructed recipient, and that the fact that Mr K had used a channel for 
sending money overseas to request a transfer to a UK account should have alerted 
Danske to the possibility that something wasnt right.
I can appreciate Mr Ks position here, to a degree. But banks have an obligation to 
carry out reasonable instructions provided to them by their customers, and ultimately, 
I feel that its the responsibility of the customer to ensure that theyre providing the 
correct instructions to their bank.
Mr K provided Danske with a valid transfer instruction to one of his existing payees 
here, and while it was the case that the instruction was to make a transfer to a UK 
bank account via a channel primarily used for international transfers, I dont feel that 
this point in and of itself invalidated the instruction that Mr K provided, or that Danske 
should have contacted Mr K before making the transfer as Mr K would have liked.
Im also aware that Mr K feels that Danske should reimburse him for the portion of 
the money that he was unable to recover from the unintended recipient. But given 
that Im satisfied that Danske acted according to Mr Ks instructions when transferring 
the money to that recipient, I dont feel that it would be fair or reasonable to expect 
Danske to reimburse this money.
All things considered, its very difficult for me to conclude that Danske have done 
anything wrong here, and it follows from this that my provisional decision will be that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Danske to take any further action at 
this time.
I note that Danske have already reimbursed as a gesture of goodwill to Mr K the £30 
that he was charged for instructing the transfer via the international transfer channel. 
I also note that Danske have made further reimbursements to Mr K following the view 
put forwards by our investigator. These further reimbursements seem generous to 
me, and I commend Danske for making them.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr K and Danske the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Danske confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision. 
However, Mr K did provide some comments for my consideration.
Mr K drew my attention to his position that, because there was a discrepancy with the 
transfer, which meant that Danske had to amend the transfer before processing it, this in 
itself should have meant that Danske should have returned the transfer to Mr K for 
clarification rather than going ahead with it.
I can appreciate Mr Ks point here, but the amendment that Mr K refers to is that Danske 
added the appropriate swift code to the transfer to enable the transfer to be made. I dont 
consider this to be an amendment in the way that Mr K intimates here  one such that 
Danske should have rejected the transfer  and I say this because Danske adding the swift 
code didnt change the transfer destination in any way but rather was the addition of 
information to enable the requested transfer to be made to the valid transfer destination 
details provided to Danske by Mr K via the method requested by Mr K.
Mr K also noted that my provisional decision letter indicated that I had reached a different 
outcome to that as recommended by our investigator in their initial view of this complaint, but 
that it appeared that the outcome that Id reached was the same as the investigator. It should be noted that whilst our investigator also didnt uphold the primary aspect of Mr Ks 
complaint  that Danske should reimburse to Mr K the value of the transferred amount that 
Mr K didnt receive back into his account  they did feel that Danske should have reimbursed 
to Mr K a total of £42 and recommended that the complaint be partially upheld on this basis. 
However, my provisional decision was that I didnt feel that Danske had done anything 
wrong and as such was that I didnt uphold any aspect of this complaint. This means that, 
while I did note in my provisional decision letter that Danske had already made the £42 
reimbursement to Mr K, I wont be formally instructing them to make that reimbursement and 
this complaint wont be recorded as an uphold against them.
All of which means that it remains my position that Danske didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr K by completing the transfer on Mr Ks instruction as they did, and 
it follows from this that my final decision is that I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr K was wanting here, but I hope that hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman