DRN-3387364
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS.
Mr C experienced electrical issues with the car which affected the sat nav system. He also 
experienced water ingress and it was later found that the car had been supplied without 
grommets. The car was returned to the dealership several times for repairs. During this time, 
Mr C was provided with a courtesy vehicle.
Mr C continued to experience issues. BMWUK offered to replace the car and pay a goodwill 
contribution of £4000 towards a new car.
Mr C sold the car and settled the finance agreement. He complained to BMWFS, and said 
he was unhappy that hed been left with no option but to exit the agreement and sell the car.
In response, BMWFS said that whilst it agreed that the car had faults, the offer from the 
manufacturer was reasonable.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants 
compensation for the length of time the car was in the garage for repairs, because he wasnt 
provided with a like for like courtesy car. Hes also unhappy about the length of time it took 
BMWFS to issue a response to his complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that whilst this service would consider 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused where a car has been found to be of 
unsatisfactory quality, she thought that in this case the compensation of £4000 already 
provided by BMWUK was a fair resolution. In relation to the courtesy vehicle provided to Mr 
C, the investigator said she was satisfied that the vehicle had been like for like or better.
Mr C didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the car supplied to Mr C had faults. BMWFS has acknowledged this. 
So I wont be looking into whether the car was of satisfactory quality but will instead focus on 
whether the compensation provided to Mr C was a fair and reasonable resolution to the 
complaint, or whether BMWFS needs to do more.
Mr C has said that hes unhappy about BMWFSs failure to respond to his correspondence. 
He also feels that he should be compensated for the time his car was in the garage because 
he wasnt provided with a like for like courtesy car.
Ive reviewed the system notes provided by BMWFS. These show that BMWFS wrote to Mr 
C and rejected his request to reject the car. Mr C says he never received this letter. Ive 
looked at the letter and I can see that it is correctly addressed to Mr C. Ive got no reason to 
think that it wasnt sent. If the letter wasnt received by Mr C, I dont think I can fairly hold 
BMWFS responsible for this, as its more likely to be due to a failing by the postal service, 
over which BMWFS has no control.
Mr C has said that he had no option but to sell the car and settle the finance agreement. I 
can see that BMWUK had already offered to replace the car and contribute £4000 by the 
time Mr C sold the car. I cant see that Mr C was requested to sell the car at any particular 
time, so whilst I appreciate that Mr C was without a car for several weeks whilst he was 
waiting for his new car to be delivered, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that BMWFS 
was responsible for this.
When a car isnt of satisfactory quality, this service can consider whether compensation 
should be awarded for any distress and inconvenience caused. In this case, I can see that 
compensation of £4000 has already been provided by BMWUK. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable amount which adequately reflects any distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
C, both by the faults with the car and by the delay in his new car being delivered. So I wont 
be asking BMWFS to pay further compensation.
Ive looked at the courtesy vehicles which were provided to Mr C whilst his car was in the 
garage. Based on what Ive seen, Mr C was kept mobile throughout, so I dont think theres 
any grounds to ask BMWFS to refund any rental payments. The courtesy vehicles supplied 
to Mr C were of a superior model to his car on three of the four occasions, and of an equal 
model on the fourth occasion. Taking this into account, Im unable to say that Mr C wasnt 
provided with a like for like courtesy vehicle. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman