DRN-4088510
The complaint
Mr B, represented by his solicitors, complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) treated 
him unfairly by overcharging him on his mortgage.
What happened
In 2006, Mr B took out an interest only mortgage with Santander (previously known as 
Abbey National). The offer confirmed an initial rate of 4.69% would apply to the mortgage 
until 3 January 2008, after which, Santanders standard variable rate (SVR) would apply. 
Since Mr Bs mortgage was taken out, the Bank of England base rate and the SVR have 
operated as follows:
Santander 
Effective dateSantander UK SVR Base Rate Difference
03/09/2005 6.50% 4.50% 2.00%
January 2006 Mr B applies for a fixed rate of 4.69%
03/09/2006 6.75% 4.75% 2.00%
03/12/2006 7.09% 5.00% 2.09%
03/02/2007 7.34% 5.25% 2.09%
03/06/2007 7.59% 5.50% 2.09%
03/08/2007 7.84% 5.75% 2.09%
03/01/2008 7.59% 5.50% 2.09%
January 2008 Mr Bs fixed rate ends
03/03/2008 7.34% 5.25% 2.09%
03/05/2008 7.09% 5.00% 2.09%
03/11/2008 6.94% 4.50% 2.44%
03/12/2008 5.44% 3.00% 2.44%
03/01/2009 4.94% 2.00% 2.94%
03/02/2009 4.69% 1.50% 3.19%
03/04/2009 4.24% 0.50% 3.74%
03/10/2012 4.74% 0.50% 4.24%
03/09/2016 4.49% 0.25% 4.24%
03/12/2017 4.74% 0.50% 4.24%
03/09/2018 4.99% 0.75% 4.24%
On 1 November 2019, Mr Bs representative sent a letter of complaint to Santander on 
Mr Bs behalf. The letter set out that Mr B sought to claim damages in relation to being 
overcharged interest on his outstanding mortgage balance due to the unlawful interest 
rates and any variations in the interest rates charged by Santander. 
The letter set out that Mr B considers that the mortgage offer issued on 28 January 2006 
contained unfair terms pursuant to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 
1999 (UTCCR). Elaborating on this point, Mr Bs representative argued:
Section four of the offer letter is unfair as the term within did not explain what was 
meant by the Standard Variable Rate, and Mr B was misled into believing that this 
rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England base rate, rather than at 
Santanders discretion.
Mr B does not accept that the mortgage general terms and conditions, which defined 
the Standard Variable Rate were incorporated into the contract.
It is unfair to expect a consumer, such as Mr B, to pore over the small print to 
understand the meaning of a key term like the interest rate. 
The meaning of the Standard Variable Rate and particularly the fact that Santander 
could vary it at its discretion, should have been set out in the mortgage offer. The 
failure to do so, renders the term within section four of the mortgage offer unfair for 
the purposes of UTCCR such that Santander is unable to rely on it. 
A term included within a contract allowing a lender to vary interest rates entirely at its 
own discretion without providing grounds to do so is unfair. 
The term lacks transparency and Mr B did not have an effective right to termination 
due to the presence of an Early Repayment Charge (ERC), as well as other costs 
associated with discharging his mortgage and switching to another lender. 
Section 15 of The Supply of Goods and Services Act (SOGSA) should be deemed to 
apply in this case. This allows for the consideration of a reasonable rate being 
applied to Mr Bs mortgage balance rather than Santanders SVR. 
Santanders actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook whereby 
a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And 
a breach of MCOB 11.5(1)(b) which requires a firm to treat customers fairly by 
assessing, before deciding to vary a regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan; whether the consumer will be able to repay the sums borrowed and interest.
Mr B seeks to claim the difference between the amount of interest he paid on his 
mortgage and the amount he would have paid had it been subject to what he deems 
to be a reasonable rate. 
Santander responded to the letter of complaint on 2 January 2020, disagreeing with Mr Bs 
allegations. In summary, Santander argued:
Mr Bs complaint had been made out of time as the event complained of happened 
more than six years ago and Mr B was complaining more than three years after he 
realised or should have realised there was a problem. 
The SVR clause is not unfair. It is a core term of the contract and should be excluded 
from any test of fairness. The SVR clause was of central importance when pricing the 
mortgage itself. It also considers the clause to be transparent, limited in scope and to 
strike a fair balance between the interests of the lender and the consumer. 
The consumer was able to exit the contract at any time (subject to the ERC) and 
notice was provided when changes to the applicable rate were being made. 
The FCA has acknowledged the benefit of lenders being able to change variable rate 
contracts, as it allows them to offer more competitive products across a longer 
period.
Some of the rate changes applied to the mortgage were reductions and therefore, 
overall, the net position for Mr B was that he benefitted from the SVR clause. It disagrees that Mr Bs interpretation of s.15 of SOGSA. It considers the applicable 
interest rate to be the one set in the mortgage agreement and even if the SVR clause 
was deemed to be unfair, then the rate that applied at outset would apply. 
It does not agree that Mr B can bring a claim for breach of any of the Principles of 
Business. And while it notes the reference to breaches of MCOB, it considers there 
to be insufficient information to substantiate this claim and comments that MCOB 
11.5 did not come into force until after 26 April 2014.
Before referring the complaint to this service, Mr Bs representative chose to write to 
Santander again on 11 June 2020, further detailing the complaint as follows:
It considers both a court and this service would find that a term allowing Santander 
unilateral and unfettered ability to vary an SVR would be deemed as an unfair 
contract term within the scope of the UTCCR. 
The interest variation terms lack transparency as required by EU law. 
While the mortgage contract provides a list of criteria upon which the SVR may be 
varied, the reasons given are general and vague. They do not provide the clear and 
intelligible criteria that would permit the average consumer to foresee how the 
interest rate might change in the future, resulting in the term being deemed unfair. 
The terms are not drafted in plain and intelligible language.
As a result of the variation term being deemed unfair, it would be unenforceable 
under UTCCR. Relying on case law, the representative considers it would be open to 
a UK court to imply a term under English Law requiring payment of a reasonable rate 
in place of the SVR that was applied. 
It argues that a reasonable price for the SVR rate will most likely correspond to the 
cost of funds applicable to Mr Bs borrowing alone.
Mr Bs representative then referred the complaint to our service on 2 July 2020.
To address the points made, Santander chose to issue a further response on 20 July 2020. I 
have summarised its letter below:
The letter sent by Mr Bs representative appears to be a generic letter and does not 
address the issues relevant to Mr Bs account, its terms and conditions and the 
variations to the SVR.
It continues to consider the SVR term to be a core term, exempt from any 
assessment of fairness. It also remains of the view that the term is sufficiently 
transparent, limited in scope, balanced and that Mr B was able to exit the agreement. 
Even if one of the sub-clauses of the SVR clause was considered to be unfair (which 
it doesnt agree is the case) then it considers that the remaining sub-clauses would 
remain effective and any variations under that sub-clause would be valid. 
It continues to disagree with Mr Bs interpretation of SOGSA and case law. 
Our investigator issued an assessment setting out the limitations of our jurisdiction when it 
came to Mr Bs complaint. She also set out that she did not think the merits of the complaint 
should be upheld. In summary she said:
The complaint point that, at the point of sale, Mr B was misled into believing the SVR 
would track base rate had not been brought in time, under DISP 2.8.2(R).The complaint was raised on 1 November 2019, so the investigator concluded that a 
complaint about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years 
prior to this, had been raised in time. Which would be from 1 November 2013 
onward. So, she was satisfied that she could consider whether the sums charged 
from 1 November 2013 onward were fair and reasonable. 
DISP 2.8.2(R) has two parts, the second providing for a scenario where the 
consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than six years after the event complained 
of. Specifying such a complaint must be brought within three years from the date the 
consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that they had 
cause for complaint. But the investigator thought Mr B ought reasonably to have 
been aware he had cause for complaint from January 2008 (given the margin 
between the base rate and Santanders SVR had increased from where it was when 
he took out the mortgage). So, she didnt think this gave him any more time. 
In considering the fairness of the interest rate charged from 1 November 2013 
onward, she would need to take account of previous variations of the interest rate in 
order to determine whether the rate charged during the period she can look at is fair. 
She would also need to consider whether the variation clause itself is an unfair term 
as a matter of law. She concluded both of these things were part of all of the 
circumstances of the case that she is required to consider under the DISP rules and 
are relevant to whether the interest charged from 1 November 2013 onward is fair 
and reasonable. 
Santander was not required to set out all the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
contract in a single document. There are good reasons why general terms and 
conditions would be in a separate document to an individual consumers offer. 
The mortgage represented a substantial liability and a consumer ought reasonably to 
be treated as if they had read all the information provided with the mortgage offer, 
including the associated terms and conditions. 
Mr Bs mortgage contract did not commit to track the Bank of England base rate, he 
was made sufficiently aware of its terms and that Santander has sought to charge 
interest in accordance with those terms. 
The investigator was not persuaded at a general level that the relevant terms satisfy 
the wider transparency requirements. While she thought they were easy to follow 
grammatically, some of the sub-clauses were very broad, providing seemingly 
unfettered discretion about when Santander can make changes and by how much. 
She was not satisfied that a reasonably informed consumer would have agreed to 
them in individual negotiations. 
In determining whether, at the time the contract was taken out, there were likely to be 
significant barriers to Mr B dissolving the contract, the investigator noted that 
Santander was only able to rely on the variation terms when there was no ERC or if it 
implemented an ERC waiver. So, Mr B would not have had to pay a charge to end 
his contract with Santander should he have chosen to switch to another lender. The 
investigator added that she didnt think switching costs were a significant barrier to 
exit and instead were costs a borrower could incur if they ever sought to switch 
lender. 
She set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mr B experienced because 
of the mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate. And the need to 
consider whether Santander had exercised the terms fairly.She found SVRs to serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide for 
future changes and allow borrowers flexibility.
The investigator was not persuaded that Santanders variations to its SVR had led to 
Mr B paying an unfairly high rate of interest in the period she could consider. 
The investigator noted that Mr Bs SVR was capped by the mortgage terms and 
conditions and suggested this was to protect consumers like Mr B from significant 
increases to the interest rate payable on his mortgage. However, given the terms 
allow Santander to vary the cap without a reason, she questioned what benefit Mr B 
truly received from the cap. Concluding that in reality, Mr Bs mortgage could be 
subject to the same sort of interest rate increases as a consumer without a capped 
SVR. 
The investigator was not completely satisfied that Santanders evidence for its 
variations to the cap margin in 2008 (enabling it to keep the SVR higher than it would 
have been given falls in base rate) demonstrates the extent of the increase to the cap 
margin was for a reason that a fair term would have allowed. However, she clarified 
that this service only has jurisdiction to assess whether Santander treated Mr B fairly 
from 1 November 2013 onwards. So, she would only be able to make an award if she 
thought that the decision Santander took in 2008 led to Mr B paying an unfair interest 
rate from 1 November 2013. But having considered the evidence, she did not think 
this was the case. 
In 2012, Santander increased its SVR from 4.24% to 4.74% outside of a variation to 
base rate but in conjunction with a further increase to the cap margin. Santander 
provided evidence to demonstrate why this increase was necessary and how it was 
provided for in the mortgage terms and conditions. The investigator concluded that 
Santander had demonstrated it had good commercial reasons for needing to 
increase the cap margin and the SVR in this period. She went on to find that even if 
Santander had not increased the cap margin in 2008, the evidence it had provided 
for the period after that, supports its decision to increase the cap margin and SVR to 
the degree it did in 2012. 
She noted that Mr Bs representative hadnt provided any evidence to suggest Mr B 
was unable to move to another lender or switch to a different Santander product if he 
was unhappy with the changes it made to the SVR. 
Overall, she didnt think there was anything to suggest Mr B had overpaid interest in 
the period she could consider. 
Mr Bs representative responded to say it wished to appeal the outcome and asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, it said:
It agrees that were the complaint to be upheld, any award would be limited to the 
monthly repayments in the six years prior to the letter of complaint (1 November 2013 
onwards). But it does not agree that such a limitation on our jurisdiction means we 
cannot reach a conclusion that Mr B was treated unfairly prior to November 2013 
such that the appropriate outcome would be to uphold the complaint in part, but 
confirm the lender has no action to take. 
It agrees with the investigators conclusions regarding the increases to the cap 
margin in 2008 but appeals the final conclusion that no unfairness took place. It does 
not consider varying the SVR to give Santander headroom is in any way in 
compliance with Santanders Braganza duty and instead is an example of a lender taking into account an irrelevant consideration when setting the SVR. It is also 
mindful that the lender has argued that it elected to keep its rates high in order to 
maximise the returns from retail and commercial deposits but taking these two 
factors together all points to treating SVR mortgage holders unfairly. 
Mr B had the expectation and understanding that he would benefit from having 
chosen a mortgage subject to a cap. A margin cap of 2.5% is larger than it, and its 
expert witness, consider reasonable. It would argue 2% is more than adequate to 
cover overheads, provide profit and meet regulatory requirements. It notes 
comparator lenders which also included a rate cap in their contractual terms, and 
which were no less reliant on wholesale funding or retail deposits, managed to 
continue to operate within the parameters of their cap. 
The investigator accepts the 2008 margin cap increase to have been unfair. It agrees 
with this conclusion but thinks this had a material bearing on all future SVR 
variations. Each variation set by the lender, especially those in 2008, are a 
benchmark which all future SVR variations are measured against. This includes any 
months where a lender elects not to vary the SVR, which is still a decision and is 
required to be exercised reasonably and in compliance with the lenders overall 
Braganza duty. Had the cap margin in 2008 been set at a fair rate, future SVRs 
would have been adjusted accordingly (or should have been). It does not therefore 
agree that past events have no bearing on future events, and that one can isolate the 
rates and repayments between 2006 and 2008, from those in subsequent years. 
It agrees the variation term appears overly broad, and the benefit to customers of the 
rate cap is questionable since the lender had an unfettered ability to vary it. It 
believes the terms is unfair, and the exercise of the term has also been unfair to Mr B 
and by extension, all other customers with the mortgage product. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, one of our investigators confirmed that 
she would pass the case to an ombudsman for a final decision  inviting both parties to 
provide any further comments or information they would like the ombudsman to consider by 
20 April 2023. 
Santander responded to provide the following information and comments:
It agrees with the overall outcome that the complaint should not be upheld. But it 
disagrees with the suggestion that a court could properly conclude the margin cap 
variation clause is legally unfair under UTCCR. 
It has previously set out at length its position on the complaint and the legal fairness 
of the term in question and it maintains this position in response to the investigators 
findings. That is, that a court would find the relevant terms to be fair under the 
UTCCR. 
It does not consider it appropriate for this service to draw conclusions as to what a 
court may or may not conclude, particularly given Santander has received senior 
legal advice which is contrary to such a conclusion. Absent this service having 
obtained its own Kings Counsel advice on the terms, it disputes the basis on which 
the investigator felt able to reach a conclusion which contradicts the legal advice 
Santander has received and to present such a view as conclusive within her 
assessment of the complaint. 
It requests this service take a more balanced approach when issuing the final 
decision. Mr B did not provide any further commentary. 
As the deadline for the parties to respond has now passed, it is now appropriate for me to 
issue my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I am required by 
DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr B. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help him to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
Santander previously raised an objection to our service considering Mr Bs complaint, in 
short, it thought Mr B had brought his complaint too late under the DISP rules. It is unclear if 
Santander maintains its objection on this point. So, for completeness, I have set out the 
parts of Mr Bs complaint that I consider to be in jurisdiction. 
The FCAs dispute resolution (DISP) handbook sets out the rules relating to the time limits 
within which a complaint needs to be made. 
In this case, the relevant rule is DISP 2.8.2R. So far as is relevant, this rule says that where 
a business does not consent, we cant consider a complaint made:
More than six years from the date of the event being complained about; or (if later)
More than three years from when the consumer was aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware, of a cause to complain;
Unless the failure to comply with those time limits was as a result of exceptional 
circumstances. 
Mr B has complained about the level of interest hes been charged on his mortgage. Im 
satisfied that a complaint about any interest charged to the mortgage in the six years leading 
up to Mr Bs complaint has been made in time under the six-year time limit. This complaint 
was made to Santander on 1 November 2019. So, Im satisfied we can consider a complaint about the interest charged on the mortgage since 1 November 2013. The High Court 
endorsed this approach in a judgement handed down in 2022. 
In order to consider Mr Bs complaint about the interest Santander charged before that point 
Id need to be persuaded that the complaint had been made within three years of when he 
was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware, of a cause to complain. But Im not 
persuaded it has been. 
Mr B has said he thought the SVR on this mortgage would track the Bank of England base 
rate. When Mr Bs initial fixed period ended and his mortgage moved onto Santanders SVR, 
the difference between base rate and the SVR had increased from where it stood when he 
first took out the mortgage in 2006 and the difference between the two had significantly 
increased by February 2009. So I think that Mr B ought reasonably to have been aware by 
2009 at the latest that the margin between the rate he was being charged and the Bank of 
England base rate was higher than when he first took the mortgage out. However, Mr B 
didnt raise a complaint about this until much later  more than three years from that point. 
As a result, Im satisfied the complaint about the interest rates charged before November 
2013 has been made out of time. And for the same reasons, Im satisfied any complaint 
about how the information provided to Mr B at outset was misleading (in respect of how the 
mortgage would operate in terms of the movement of the SVR) would also be out of time. 
Ive not been provided with any information to suggest that the reason part of Mr Bs 
complaint was not brought in time was a result of exceptional circumstances. 
As a result, Im satisfied that our service only has the power to consider Mr Bs complaint 
about the interest hes been charged on the mortgage since 1 November 2013. 
I will though need to take account of previous variations of the interest rate in order to 
determine whether the rate charged during the period I can look at is fair. But in the event I 
were to recommend any redress is due, I would only be able to award this for the period of 
time that is in scope of this complaint. 
Mr Bs representative has said it does not agree that the limits to my jurisdiction mean I 
cannot reach a conclusion that he was treated unfairly prior to the November 2013. Instead it 
thinks the appropriate outcome would be an uphold, confirming the lender has no action to 
take for any event that took place more than six years before the date of complaint. 
This is a misunderstanding of the DISP rules and does not lead me to reach a different 
conclusion on this point. I do not have the power to decide the merits of Mr Bs complaint 
prior to 2013. Instead, I can consider the events prior to 2013 in order to determine whether 
the interest rate Mr B paid during the period I can look at is fair.  
Mr Bs representative has raised many individual complaint points both to Santander directly 
and to this service. However, I consider the overall complaint to break down into two key 
points:
Mr B had a legitimate expectation that his mortgage would track the Bank of England 
base rate once it reverted to the variable rate. As it did not do so, Santander has 
treated him unfairly. 
Mr B has paid an unfairly high rate of interest compared to what he should have done 
from 1 November 2013 onwards because in varying the SVR Santander (i) relied on 
an unfair term and/or (ii) did not vary the SVR for a reason allowed by the terms and 
conditions. I will deal with each point in turn. 
Did Santanders actions cause Mr B to have an expectation that his mortgage would track 
the Bank of England base rate?
Mr Bs representative considers Santanders actions to have given Mr B an expectation that 
his mortgage would track base rate. 
As I mentioned above, this part of Mr Bs complaint is out of time.  
To the extent that Mr Bs representative is suggesting that this is also a basis to complain 
about the charges that are in time, I disagree with its conclusions. 
The mortgage documentation is clear in that Mr Bs mortgage would revert to the SVR once 
his fixed interest period expired and that the SVR could go up as well as down. And I havent 
seen any evidence that persuades me that Santander was obligated, contractually or 
otherwise, to have its SVR track Base Rate. 
I am aware Mr Bs representative argues that, as the mortgage general terms and conditions 
were not included in the mortgage offer letter, they should not form part of the mortgage 
contract. I disagree with this conclusion. 
Santander was not obligated to set out all the terms and conditions governing its mortgages 
in one document. And while I appreciate this means Mr B would need to read more than one 
document to understand and appreciate the terms that governed his mortgage, given this 
was a substantial liability, secured on his principal asset, I think Mr B ought reasonably to be 
treated as if he had read all of the information provided. 
Im also not aware of any evidence that can properly be said to show that Santander acted in 
a way where it committed to keep the margin between base rate and the SVR the same  
the fact that this margin didnt substantially change over a period of time isnt sufficient to 
indicate that Santander had agreed to give up its right as set out in the contract, and I think 
that in commercial terms this would have been an odd decision, given the extent to which 
funding costs can change. Finally, I am not aware of any principle of law that, on the facts of 
this case, would obviously commit Santander to doing so.
So, it follows that I do not uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint. 
Fairness of interest charged: interest rate variation terms 
I have to consider whether from 1 November 2013 onwards Mr B paid an unfairly high rate of 
interest. While I acknowledge that Mr B paid the SVR set by Santander, and that there is no 
evidence (and no complaint) that Santander made any calculation errors in charging interest, 
I also think that there are other questions that are potentially relevant to whether the interest 
itself was fairly charged. One of those questions is whether the term allowing Santander to 
vary the SVR is the sort of term the courts would consider to be unfair as a matter of law. 
The law on unfair terms is an important part of consumer protection measures and prevents 
businesses from taking advantage  whether consciously or otherwise  of their customers, 
who have limited bargaining power. If a variation made in reliance on an unfair term 
contributed to the rate charged from 1 November 2013 onwards, then that might be relevant 
to whether interest charged from 1 November 2013 was fair.
To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant terms 
themselves: The Mortgage offer dated January 2006, set out at Section 4:
Santanders General Mortgage Conditions Booklet 2004 (edition) Printed May 2005 set out:
10.2 We may change the standard variable rate at any time for one or more of the following 
reasons:
(a) To maintain the competitiveness of our personal banking business, taking account of 
actual or anticipated changes in the interest rates which other financial institutions 
charge to personal mortgage borrowers;
(b) To reflect actual or expected changes in the cost of funds we use in making loans to 
our personal mortgage borrowers;
(c) To ensure that our business is run in a way which complies with the requirements of 
our regulator or of any central bank or other monetary authority; 
(d) To enable us to comply with condition 10.6
10.3 If we change the standard variable rate under condition 10.2, we will give you notice of 
the change as soon as possible after we have taken a final decision to make the change. 
The change will come into effect on the date stated in the notice, which will not be earlier 
than the date when we give the notice.
10.4 We may also increase or reduce the standard variable rate under this paragraph at any 
time for any valid reason. The following terms will apply if we increase or reduce the 
standard variable rate under this paragraph:
(a) we will give you not less than 30 days notice of an increase in the standard 
variable rate and not less than seven days notice of a reduction;
(b) the notice will say that we are making the increase or reduction under this 
paragraph;
(c) if we are increasing the standard variable rate, then:
- if the increase applies to the whole of the capital, you will be entitled to 
repay all the money you owe us within three months from the date on which 
the increase takes effect, without paying any early repayment charge that 
would otherwise apply;
- if the increase applies only to part of the capital (the affected part), you will 
be entitled either to repay the whole of the money you owe us, or (if you 
choose) the affected part, within three months from the date on which the 
increase takes effect, without paying any early repayment charge that would 
otherwise apply to the affected part.
10.5 If we change the standard variable rate, we will ensure that the changed standard 
variable rate does not exceed the cap in force at the time when we take the final decision to 
make the change. 
10.6 This paragraph applies where the standard variable rate comes to exceed the cap as a 
result of:
(a) a reduction in base rate;
(b) a reduction in the base rate combined with a change in the standard variable rate 
of which we have previously given notice; or
(c) a reduction in the margin. 
Where this paragraph applies, we will change the standard variable rate within 60 
days from the date (the start date) on which it comes to exceed the cap. We will 
ensure that the changed standard variable rate does not exceed the cap in force on 
the start date. 
10.7 We may increase or reduce the margin at any time. The following terms will apply to 
any increase or reduction which we make under this paragraph:
(a) we will give you not less than 30 days notice of any increase in the margin and 
not less than seven days notice of a reduction;
(b) if we are increasing the margin, then [the same ERC waiver provisions as 
condition 10.4(c) apply]
32.1 We may give you notice under these conditions:
(a) by delivering the notice to you at the property;
(b) by sending notice to you by first class post or second class post at the property (in 
which case, the notice is to be treated as given on the day when it would arrive in the 
normal course of post); or 
(c) (if you have agreed that we give you notice under these conditions by email) by 
sending the notice to you at the last email address you have notified to us. 
32.2 A notice given under condition 10.3 (that is to say, a notice of a change in the standard 
variable rate under condition 10.2) may be given either in accordance with condition 32.1 or 
by advertising the notice in at least three national newspapers chosen by us and in our 
branchescap is defined at 2.6 as:
the rate of interest found by adding the margin to the reference rate
margin is defined at 2.17 as:
2.50% or any other percentage which we substitute as the margin under condition 
10.7
reference rate is defined at 2.28 as:
(a) the Bank of Englands repo rate from time to time; or 
(b) any replacement rate which we specify under condition 11.1;
Santander has told us it relied on clauses 10.2(b) and (c) for the SVR variations in question. 
In doing so, it also invoked clause 10.7 which enabled it to vary its cap margin. 
One of the considerations that I am required to take into account is relevant law. I consider 
that the application of the UTCCRs to the relevant terms in this case falls into that category 
of relevant law. I have therefore considered whether a court would have a reasonable basis 
to conclude that any of the relevant terms may be unfair, and then whether and the extent to 
which that assessment may be relevant to whether Mr B was charged an unfair rate of 
interest during the period I can consider. 
The relevant test as to whether a term is unfair is set out at Regulation 5(1), as follows:
A contractual term which has not been individually negotiated shall be regarded as 
unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance in 
the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of the 
consumer.
Regulation 6 says:
(1)the unfairness of the contractual term shall be assessed, taking into account 
the nature of the goods and services for which the contract was concluded and by 
referring, at the time of conclusion of the contract, to all the circumstances attending 
the conclusion of the contract on which it is dependent
(2) In so far as it is in plain and intelligible language, the assessment of fairness of a 
term shall not relate:
(a) to the definition of the main subject matter of the contract, or 
(b) to the adequacy of the price or remuneration, as against the goods or 
services supplied in exchange. 
So, it is important to note, that I must consider whether the variation terms were unfair based 
on the situation when Mr B took the mortgage out and in the context of the agreement as a 
whole. And whether the terms in question go to the main subject matter of the contract or the 
adequacy of the price/remuneration. 
Schedule 2 to the UTCCRs sets out a grey list of indicatively unfair terms and various 
factors relevant to assessing the fairness of a term. The grey list includes:
1. Terms which have the object and effect of  (j) enabling the seller or supplier to alter the terms of the contract unilaterally without 
a valid reason which is specified in the contract
The grey list of indicatively unfair terms is subject to the qualifications to be found in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of the UTCCRs. For example, paragraph 2(b) of Schedule
2 of the UTCCRs identifies that the indication of unfairness under paragraph 1(j) is
without hindrance to terms under which a supplier of financial services reserves the
right to:
change a rate of interest payable without notice where there is a valid reason 
(provided the supplier informs the consumer at the earliest opportunity and the 
consumer is free to dissolve the contract immediately);
alter unilaterally the conditions of a contract of indeterminate duration (provided that 
he is required to inform the consumer with reasonable notice and that the consumer 
is free to dissolve the contract).
As a strict matter of law, if the relevant clauses in this case are unfair under the UTCCRs, 
they would not be binding on Mr B (Regulation 8 UTCCR). And Santander would not have 
been permitted under the terms and conditions to vary the SVR in the way that it did.
In considering these matters, it is relevant to note that the Court of Justice of the European 
Union (CJEU), having identified that ultimately the fairness of a term was a matter for the 
national court to decide, has indicated what national courts should take into account when 
making that decision:
in Invitel, (C-472/10), the court concluded that a price variation clause in a contract is 
not a core term. Identifying that a price variation clause was instead a term relating 
to a mechanism for amending the prices of the services provided to the consumer. 
in RWE, (C/92/11), the court emphasised that, for unilateral price variation clauses 
(falling within paragraphs 1(j) or 1(l)) to be fair, they must specify the reasons and 
methodology for the price variation so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis of 
clear, intelligible criteria, the alterations that may be made to those charges. In 
addition, the CJEU was concerned that the customer is provided with meaningful 
criteria by which they can verify, and if necessary, challenge, any proposed variation 
to the rate. The CJEU also placed importance on whether the right to exit a contract 
in the event of a unilateral price variation can practically be exercised by the 
consumer at the time, having regard to the circumstances of the market as it exists at 
the time.
in Kasler, (C-26/13), the CJEU identified that, when assessing the fairness of a 
unilateral variation clause  and the meaning of plain intelligible language, national 
courts ought to consider whether: a) the mechanism expressed in the reasons for the 
variation is transparent; such that b) it would enable a consumer to foresee and 
predict the economic consequences for him or her.
In Matei (C-143/13) the CJEU referred to the loan agreement needing to set out 
transparently the reasons for and the particularities of the mechanism for altering 
the interest rate and the relationship between that mechanism and the other terms 
relating to the lenders renumeration, so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis 
of clear, intelligible criteria, the economic consequences for him which derive from it. 
The leading UK judgement on the UTCCR is the Supreme Court case ParkingEye v Beavis [2015] UKSC 67. In this case the court said that:
The test for establishing a significant imbalance (Regulation 5(1)) includes, but is not 
limited to, asking whether the terms of agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law in the absence of the 
contractual provision;
The question of whether a term is contrary to the requirements of good faith depends 
on an objective hypothetical negotiation, asking whether an informed consumer 
would have agreed to the term in question during individual contract negotiations. 
This should take into account a wider circumstantial review, such as the relationship 
with other relevant contractual terms; and 
Consideration should be given to the nature of the goods or services supplied, 
including the significance, purpose and effect of the term in question. 
FCA guidance (FG18/07) on unfair terms in consumer contracts is also of relevance. This 
paper sets out that The fairness assessment is a holistic assessment and these two 
elements may overlap in the way they apply to any particular set of facts and that the 
applicable law recognises the importance of striking a fair balance between the legitimate 
interests of both the supplier and consumer. The guidance also provides an overview of 
factors relevant to determining whether a variation term is fair. At paragraphs 66 and 67 the 
guidance states that firms should consider the consumers freedom to exit the contract if 
they do not accept the variation, and how they can actually do so. This should include the 
financial and practical barriers which may prevent them from doing so within any advance 
notice or reasonable timeframe. 
Application to Mr Bs complaint
Having considered the above, I am satisfied I need to address the following in deciding 
whether the variation clause was unfair: 
Whether the term is a core term 
Whether the term creates a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations 
to the consumers detriment contrary to the requirement of good faith.
The decision whether the term is unfair should be made in the light of what sort of contract is 
in issue and what the contract is about, as well as what the other terms say and all the 
circumstances that existed when the term was agreed. Assessing whether a term is unfair 
involves winding the clock back to the date the term was agreed, and then standing back to 
consider the term in its full context, both within the contract and in al the surrounding 
circumstances. 
- Is the relevant term a core term?
The terms in question relate to the mechanism for amending the price of the services 
provided, not the price itself. So, I am satisfied they are ancillary terms whose fairness can 
be assessed under the applicable fair terms legislation. Im aware Santander disagrees with 
this conclusion but having taken into account the relevant case law set out above, Im not 
persuaded by its arguments. 
- Do the terms create a significant imbalance contrary to the requirements of good 
faith?As set out above, one of the considerations when determining if the terms create a 
significant imbalance is whether the terms of the agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law if the term was not there. 
I am not persuaded that the interest rate variation clause applicable to Mr Bs mortgage 
contract does this. At a general level, such clauses have a legitimate purpose and are 
common in financial services consumer contracts. Particularly those of long or indeterminate 
duration, such as mortgage agreements. A fair variation term can benefit both consumers 
and lenders. Providing flexibility and a wider choice to consumers and enabling firms to 
provide competitively priced products, knowing they can vary the interest rates they charge 
to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly in their own costs of funding. 1
A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for future changes that justify increases in 
the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds and things such as changing regulatory 
requirements are by their very nature, difficult to foresee. So, Im satisfied that, if the 
agreement itself didnt include a rate variation clause, its reasonable to assume that national 
law would provide a mechanism for allowing a lender to vary the rate for legitimate reasons. 
And I think the average consumer could reasonably be assumed to accept this and agree to 
it in hypothetical negotiations. 
In addition, when considering whether there was a significant barrier to exit, it is important to 
note that there was no ERC applicable to Mr Bs mortgage at the point it reverted to the SVR 
in January 2008. So, if Santander had exercised its rights as set by the variation term, and 
Mr B was unhappy with that decision, he was free under the contract to transfer his 
mortgage to another lender should he have wished without having to pay this charge. 
While Mr Bs representative has said that other costs impacted on Mr Bs ability to redeem 
his mortgage such as switching costs, Im not persuaded these are the sort of significant 
barriers that the CJEU and FCA had in mind when determining whether a variation clause is 
unfair. Mr B would incur these costs if ever he sought to switch lender. 
So, I dont think the variation terms would be considered unfair simply because at a general 
level there would be a cost to a consumer from moving elsewhere. 
Ive also considered whether the terms in Mr Bs agreement go further than reasonably 
necessary to protect Santanders legitimate interests and whether the variation clauses are 
sufficiently transparent. 
Santander has told us it relied on clauses 10.2(b), 10.2(c) when varying the SVR during the 
relevant period, in conjunction with 10.7. As a result, I do not intend to comment on the other 
sub-clauses of clause 10.2. 
Our investigator was satisfied clauses 10.2(b) and (c) meet the fairness requirements such 
that a well-informed customer would agree to them in hypothetical negotiations. However, 
she did not think clause 10.7 satisfied the wider transparency requirements. She accepted it 
is grammatically easy to follow but thought it a very broad term, providing unfettered 
discretion about when Santander can make changes to the margin (and therefore the cap on 
its SVR) and by how much. I agree with the investigators conclusions here. 
I consider clause 10.7 to be wider than reasonably necessary to achieve a legitimate 
purpose. I dont think national law would imply a term that gave Santander such wide 
discretion, and like our investigator, I am satisfied that it causes a significant imbalance 
between the parties. It is a highly subjective term that does not explain to the consumer 
1 FCA Guidance (FG18/07 Paragraph 34)when a change may be made or the method for determining the new price. I am not 
persuaded a reasonably informed consumer would be able to understand the basis and the 
mechanics for any decisions taken that relied on this term (given its breadth) or be able to 
understand the economic consequences of entering into the agreement. 
Im aware that Santander strongly disagrees with this conclusion. It points to the legal advice 
it has received and highlights that clause 10.2 restricts Santanders ability to vary the SVR to 
one of the contractually stated reasons, which in turn, restricts the impact on the price the 
consumer will pay  which it argues is the consumers primary concern. And it has asked me 
to bear in mind that an assessment of an unfair term must be conducted in the round i.e. by 
reference to all the circumstances attending the conclusion of the contract and to all the 
other terms of the contract. I agree that some of the unfairness that might arise from the 
application of clause 10.7 may be offset by the restrictions in clause 10.2. But I dont 
necessarily agree that clause 10.2 completely mitigates the potential unfairness of the cap 
variation clause, given the extent to which the absence of any limitations on the cap is 
inconsistent with the very nature of a cap, and the potential this may have to confuse 
customers. 
In all the circumstances, I think that the lack of transparency and the unilateral rights the cap 
variation term gives Santander may lead to a court concluding that clause 10.7 would be 
unfair for the purposes of the UTCCRs on the basis that it creates a significant imbalance in 
the rights of the parties contrary to the requirement of good faith. I do not agree  as 
Santander suggests  that I am unable to reach this conclusion without the Ombudsman 
Service obtaining the opinion of Kings Counsel about the clause. That is clearly not required 
by our scheme and isnt supported by the caselaw governing complaints to our service. 
But, whatever the answer to this question, and I accept that a court may take a different view 
and agree with Santander, the central issue I need to decide is whether there has been any 
unfairness to Mr B from 1 November 2013 onwards. While I accept that legally, the effect of 
a term being unfair is that it wont apply, that wouldnt necessarily mean that there has been 
an unfairness. Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. That includes  but is not limited to  relevant law. The fairness of the 
underlying variation clause will not of itself properly answer that question. 
While I have taken account of the relevant law regarding contractual terms, Ive also thought 
more broadly about whether, and the extent to which, the way in which the terms have been 
used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr B. That is the ultimate question I need to answer 
in deciding whether to uphold the complaint. 
Has Santander exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I am doing so in the context that this complaint only concerns the 
fairness of interest charged to Mr Bs mortgage since 1 November 2013. All interest charging 
events before that are out of time because Mr B did not refer his complaint in time. 
However, in order to consider the fairness of the interest Mr B was charged during the period 
that is in time, its necessary for me to consider historic changes to Santanders SVR, since 
the SVR charged during the period of time that is in time is the result not only of decisions 
Santander made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made prior to it. 
Im satisfied that each time Santander made a decision to change the SVR, the SVR 
remained at that revised level until it made a further decision to change it  from the starting 
point of the level resulting from the previous variation. Therefore, the SVR charged from 1 
November 2013 is the sum of the parts of the history that went before. And issues impacting on the fairness or lawfulness of those parts might have an impact on the fairness 
of the SVR charged from November 2013. 
Having established that I need to look at the SVR both before and after November 2013, and 
having considered all the available evidence, I am not persuaded that anything Santander 
has done in varying the rate has led to unfairness from 1 November 2013 onwards. 
As our investigator explained, to assess whether Santander treated Mr B fairly during the 
period I can consider, it is important to do so through the lens of Mr Bs mortgage benefitting 
from a cap on the margin Santander could charge above base rate. 
This benefit does not appear to have been marketed to Mr B when he was choosing his 
mortgage originally. Nor does its presence feature in his representatives original letter of 
complaint to Santander. But that aside, it is contained in the terms and conditions that make 
up Mr Bs mortgage contract. So, I think its fair to conclude that Mr B, and customers like 
him, had the legitimate expectation that he would benefit from this feature of his mortgage 
(albeit that it would not be realistic to expect this cap to be absolute in the sense that it would 
operate in the same way as a tracker for the entirety of the mortgage, and I think some 
mechanism for varying the cap would be reasonable).
Such a cap is intended to shield customers from large or extreme increases in the interest 
they pay whilst on an SVR, particularly if they are unable to exit the mortgage contract 
without incurring a substantial fee, such as an ERC. 
In this case, given the cap can be varied without reason and seemingly at any time, I think 
its questionable whether it offers Mr B, and customers like him, any benefit at all. But given 
Santanders decision to include a cap in its mortgage terms and conditions, and the resultant 
expectation this wouldve given Mr B, I will need to take it into account when considering 
whether Santander treated Mr B fairly in the period I can consider. 
Mr Bs representative has said his SVR should have tracked base rate and any deviation 
from this, amounted to unfairness. As such, I will focus the remainder of this decision on the 
variations Santander made to its SVR that differed from the changes to base rate. 
Mr Bs mortgage had an initial two year fixed-interest period. During this time Santanders 
SVR mirrored five of the six variations to base rate. 
It differed by 0.09% in December 2006 when its SVR was increased by 0.34% following a 
0.25% increase in base rate. Santander says this was due to cost of funds, relying on clause 
10.2(b). The increase in SVR did not coincide with a variation to the cap. 
Santander has evidenced the impact of the increase in retail funding on its overall margins at 
the time. Im satisfied both that it varied the SVR in line with its terms and conditions and that 
the variance did not result in Mr B being charged an unfair rate of interest during the period I 
can consider. 
The period January 2008 (when Mr Bs mortgage reverted to the SVR) and March 2009
There were several reductions in base rate during this period  going from 5.25% to 0.50%. 
During the same period Santanders SVR reduced from 7.34% to 4.24% - a reduction of 
3.10%. 
Santander choosing not to pass on the full reductions in base rate led to a margin increase 
of 1.65% across the period. Some of this increase in margin was enabled by Santanders 
decision in December 2008 to increase the SVR cap from 2.5% to 3.75%.Santander has told this service on a number of occasions that its terms and conditions didnt 
require it to have or provide reasons to increase the cap margin in 2008 because the 
increase was not linked to an increase in the SVR. While this may be the case, Santander 
still had an obligation to treat Mr B fairly. So, it is important to determine whether 
Santanders decision to increase the cap margin would have been permitted under a fair 
term  especially given the expectation including a cap in its terms and conditions would 
have given customers like Mr B. 
It is also significant to point out that while the increase in the cap margin in 2008 was not 
accompanied by an increase in the SVR as it coincided with a significant drop in base rate, it 
did mean the SVR for customers with a cap margin wasnt as low as it would have been had 
the cap margin stayed the same. So, the increase in the cap margin meant Mr B, and 
customers like him, paid a higher SVR than they might have expected to under the terms 
and conditions considering the original cap. 
Both parties will be aware that this period was a time of significant change for the wider 
market as a result of the financial crisis. This had far reaching impacts on the funding costs 
of businesses and it was reflected in a change to a number of lenders interest rates across 
the market at the time. 
Whilst base rate did reduce significantly during this period, the costs to lenders of funding 
their businesses changed as did their prudential requirements. These are made up of 
several factors which are not directly linked to base rate. There was also a substantial 
increase in risk to all lenders during this period. This in part explains why Mr Bs assertion 
that anything other than a lender mirroring base rate reductions amounts to profiteering, is 
not a conclusion I agree with. 
Santander has provided relevant explanations and reasoning to show its cost of funds did 
not reduce in line with base rate. It says the decision to alter the SVR cap margin was a 
commercial decision based on falling deposit margins and an effort to manage its total net 
interest margin  a consideration for most if not all lenders at the time. It has told us that a 
significant proportion of its mortgage book was reliant on retail funding. The need to increase 
the rates it paid savers (to attract and retain deposits to facilitate such retail funding) meant 
Santander was limited in the extent to which it could pass on reductions to its SVR 
customers. 
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence Santander 
has been able to provide in full or provided copies of it to Mr B. Our rules allow me to accept 
information in confidence, so that only a description of it is disclosed. In this case, I consider 
it appropriate to accept the information and evidence Santander has provided in confidence, 
subject to the summary of it I have set out in the decision. 
Having reviewed Santanders evidence, I do not doubt that it had to balance the interests of 
its savers with its mortgage customers. Nor do I suggest that it wasnt detrimentally impacted 
by the financial crisis such that it didnt experience a disconnect between base rate and its 
cost of funds. But Im not persuaded it has adequately shown that the extent of the increase 
in its cap margin in 2008 was for a reason which a fair term would have allowed. Instead, the 
evidence provided suggests Santander increased the cap to give itself headroom for 
anticipated margin compression. And as our investigator found, Santanders published 
accounts for 2008 do not appear to mirror the reasons Santander has now provided. 
Mr Bs representative says that Santander citing the need to create headroom contravenes 
its obligations under the Braganza duty and is an example of a lender taking into account an 
irrelevant consideration. Taken in conjunction with Santanders argument that it needed to maximise returns from retail deposits, it considers this evidence that Santander did treat its 
mortgage customers unfairly. 
Had Mr B brought his complaint within six years of the margin increase in 2008 I would have 
been able to consider how this variation impacted the rate of interest he was charged on his 
mortgage at that time. However, Mr B did not bring his complaint until 2019. 
Contrary to what Mr Bs representative has argued, I only have jurisdiction to consider 
whether Santander treated Mr B fairly from 1 November 2013 onwards. So, for me to uphold 
this complaint, I would have to be persuaded that the variation in 2008 led to Mr B paying an 
unfair rate of interest not just from 2008 but from 1 November 2013 onwards. And having 
considered this case in full, I dont think that is the case. I have set out my reasoning for this 
below. 
March 2009 to 1 November 2019 when Mr B brought his complaint 
Santanders SVR mirrored the changes to base rate in all instances during this period other 
than in October 2012 when it increased both the SVR and the cap margin. 
Our investigator has already shared with the parties the core reasons provided by Santander 
to support this variance but in summary Santander said the need to increase the SVR and 
cap margin was due to the following:
It continued to experience increased funding costs as the financial crisis morphed 
into the Euro Sovereign Debt Crisis which impacted Santanders parent company.
The regulatory and liquidity rule changes led to increased funding costs  its retail 
deposits became more expensive as a higher percentage of each deposit raised 
needed to be held in the Liquid Asset Buffer rather than funding loans directly.
The replenishment of the Bank of England Special Liquidity Scheme - Santander 
borrowed funds to cover a funding gap in 2008 which it needed to repay and offset 
the costs from. 
The introduction of the Bank Levy in 2011 & increased contributions to the FSCS 
increased its cost of funds.
The overall cost of funding its mortgage book increased by over 1% in 2012.
It experienced a net interest income reduction of 915m in 2012.
In addition, Santanders published accounts for this time support the information it has been 
able to provide and also demonstrate it was experiencing increases in arrears losses across 
the mortgage book alongside a reduction in deposit balances from retail customers while 
having to pay higher rates on those accounts. 
Looking at Santanders decision to increase the SVR and cap margin in the context of the 
above circumstances, and the evidence Santander has been able to provide, Im satisfied it 
has been able to show both that it varied the SVR and cap margin in line with the relevant 
terms and conditions and that it had good commercial reasons to vary the cap to the extent 
that it did. 
I agree with the principle of the argument raised by Mr Bs representative -  that each 
variation set by the lender, is a benchmark for which all future variations are measured and this is echoed by my comments above about Santanders SVR being a sum of its parts. I 
agree with the investigators ultimate conclusion, that even if Santander had not varied the 
cap in 2008, I think it is more likely than not that it would have had to vary the cap by 2012 
and by the amount that it did. Meaning that, the rate of interest applied to Mr Bs mortgage 
from 1 November 2013 would be the same whether or not Santander increased its cap in 
2008, because the evidence it has provided supports its cap margin and SVR being 
increased by the amount they were in 2012. This means that, issues around whether the cap 
margin increase in 2008 would have been allowed under a fair term are largely academic to 
the matters I need to consider. 
As a result, I do not consider that the variations that took place before the period I can 
consider led to Mr B being treated unfairly from 1 November 2013 onwards nor have I found 
any basis to say Santander has done anything since 1 November 2013 that has led to Mr B 
being treated unfairly in relation to his mortgage payments. I dont accept the arguments 
Mr Bs representative has made to the effect that Santander did not need to set the SVR 
higher than 2% above base rate to cover overheads, provide profit and meet regulatory 
requirements. I am not satisfied it is appropriate for me to attempt to set what I consider to 
be an appropriate rate, but rather I need to consider whether the rate Santander charged 
Mr B during the period I can consider was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. 
Overall, taking into account all of the changes made to the SVR between 2006 and 2019, 
while the terms do provide Santander with discretion in regards to when or whether to vary 
the cap margin and ultimately, the SVR, I have not seen anything to persuade me that 
Santander acted outside of its terms and conditions or treated Mr B unfairly in the period that 
I can consider, or that Mr B has overpaid interest from 1 November 2013 as he claims. 
Ive also considered the representatives point that Santander has breached Principle 6 of 
the FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.5(1)(b). Having done so, and for much the same reasons 
set out above, Im not persuaded it has. 
Finally, I note that the representative has argued that Santander has breached its Braganza 
duty not to exercise its discretion to vary the SVR arbitrarily, capriciously, perversely or 
irrationally. For the reasons set out above, if there was such a duty in the present case, Im 
satisfied that Santander did not breach it since it approached the question of varying the 
SVR during the period I can look at fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
Considering everything, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and 
I make no award against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman