DRN-3518867
The complaint
Miss H complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd (eBay) have asked for photographic 
identification documents (ID) to release funds from her account. 
What happened
Miss H complained to eBay after it told her she would need to upload photographic ID to 
verify and withdraw money from her account. 
Miss H said she had concerns over the safety of her ID if she were to send it to eBay and 
she also said she wasnt given any notice that it would be required prior to money being able 
to be withdrawn from her account. So, she logged a complaint with eBay.
eBay looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it was a safeguarding requirement 
of its account holders that they needed to provide ID to continue using its platform to sell 
items and withdraw money. Miss H remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator said it was in the terms of the account that eBay could ask for ID to maintain the 
security of the account. He went on to say that eBay had given alternatives if Miss H didnt 
want to upload her ID that contained a photo, due to her concerns over safety. 
Miss H didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, Miss H said she didnt have 
any prior notice of the request for ID and doesnt feel eBay implemented the requirement in a 
fair and reasonable way. 
As Miss H remained unhappy, the complaints been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its very clear from the information Miss H has given our service that she feels very strongly 
about her complaint. Ive read through the information in its entirety, and having done so, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss H, 
but I hope after considering my reasoning, she will understand how and why I reached my 
outcome.
I want to clarify that I've considered Miss Hs detailed submissions about what happened. 
However, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
eBay is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as a payment service provider. 
This means it has an obligation to comply with money laundering regulations and legislation, 
which include verifying a customers identity. Miss H has commented that eBay previously 
released payments to her without the need for ID. However, businesses are required to take 
a risk-based approach to money laundering and have suitable systems and processes in 
place. The regulations arent prescriptive and so its up to a business to put in place the 
appropriate measures. 
So, it would be up to eBay to decide the circumstances in which to require documentation to 
verify a customers identity.
In eBays Payment Terms of Use, Section 4. Seller Onboarding it states - In order to use 
our services, you must register and accept these Payments Terms of Use. This section 
goes on to explain that customers must:
Provide us with all information which we may require for purposes that include: verifying 
your identity, complying with applicable anti-money laundering. The requirements are 
explained as this information may include, without limitation, your full name, address, phone 
number, date of birth, taxpayer identification number, bank account information, and a form 
of government-issued identification (e.g., a copy of your identity card or drivers license).
Also, in eBays Payment Terms of Use Section 7. Using Managed Payments, Paragraph 
Holds, it notes. 
A hold may be placed if we have reason to believe there is an increased risk associated 
with the provision of our Payment Services or with a certain Managed Payment transaction, 
for example if we cannot verify your identity. 
Miss H signed up to these terms when she agreed to use eBay to sell her goods. So, Im 
satisfied they can be applied to her account. 
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to ask a business to change its 
procedures or processes. This is the job of regulator  in this case, the FCA. However, it is 
our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable when 
applying those procedures or processes.
Miss H has said that eBay shouldve given her notice that she needed to provide ID 
documentation. But the terms explain that eBay may do this and as Ive mentioned above, 
eBay can decide at what point it wants to ask for these requirements, and I havent seen 
anything to suggest that in doing so here, it has acted unfairly. These terms also act as 
notice that this could be applied at some point. Its unfortunate that Miss H had money in her 
eBay account, but even if she had been given notice, she still wouldnt have been happy to 
provide the ID and would be in a similar position of not being able to use her account now. 
I understand Miss H has concerns over the security of her ID, but eBay have reassured her 
that its platform is safe. Although I accept her concerns, Miss H is ultimately complaining 
about something that hasnt happened yet. I also dont find it would be fair to ask eBay to 
make an exception to Miss H when there is nothing to suggest her ID would be at any 
greater risk of fraud than any of its other customers. As I explained above, our service is also 
not best placed to ask eBay to change procedures or processes. 
Although Miss H hasnt told our service that she doesnt have photographic ID that would 
satisfy the requirements of verification, eBay have given her some alternatives she could use 
that wouldnt contain her picture. I find this fair in the circumstances. 
In summary, Im satisfied that eBay can ask Miss H to provide ID to verify her account and it 
doesnt need to give her notice in doing so. The requirement is clearly in the terms of the account Miss H signed up to and Ive seen nothing to convince me that the requirement or 
process its followed has been applied unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman