DRN-2559930
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Monzo Bank Ltds decision to close his account. To put things right 
hed like around £500 compensation.
What happened
Mr S held an account with Monzo since 2018. In December 2020 Monzo wrote to Mr S to let 
him know theyd be closing his account immediately. Monzo didnt tell Mr S the reasons why. 
Mr S complained because he thought they should give him at least two months notice when 
deciding to close his account. Monzo didnt uphold the complaint. They said they were 
entitled to close it immediately under the terms of the account and they wouldnt reverse 
their decision or tell Mr S any more information.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. He said Monzo caused 
him a great deal of inconvenience by closing the account as this was his main account which 
he used for his salary and day to day living. Mr S confirmed he had been able to open 
another account with a different bank but for the time he was without one, he felt stuck.
The investigator didnt think Monzo had acted unfairly. She explained Monzo were obliging 
with their regulations and they were entitled to close it immediately. Overall, she thought 
their decision to close the account was fair and so didnt ask them to do anything to put 
things right.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to review things. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr S complaint. I know this will come as a great 
disappointment to Mr S, but Ive explained my reasons further below.
Monzo are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Monzo was 
complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they reviewed and subsequently 
closed Mr S account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers  but they can only do so 
if its in the terms and conditions of the account. Ive reviewed the terms and Im satisfied 
Monzo were entitled to close Mr S account without giving him notice. So, I cant fairly uphold 
Mr S complaint on this point.
Monzo hasnt shared any information about why they took the action they did with Mr S  
and theyre not obliged to. But Id like to reassure Mr S that based on the evidence Ive seen, 
the circumstances of this complaint and the terms and conditions of the account, Im 
satisfied Monzo were fair in their actions. 
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Monzo exercised 
their right to no longer offer Mr S banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that 
theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr S feels about whats happened, but I can only uphold 
Mr S complaint if I think Monzo have acted unfairly. Im sorry I cant share any more details 
with Mr S but I hope my review has reassured him that Im satisfied Monzo have acted 
reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint. And therefore, I wont be asking them to 
do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman