DRN-2938758
The complaint
Mr C complains that Oxford Capital Partners LLP (Oxford Capital) gave misleading 
information about their Estate Planning Service (EPS) and failed in their governance of the 
EPS.
What happened
In May 2015 Mr C invested £100,000 with Oxford Capitals EPS, following advice from his 
independent financial adviser (IFA). The EPS was a discretionary management service likely 
to provide business property relief, enabling investors to claim inheritance tax relief.
Mr C invested in the return strategy Portfolio G, targeting compound growth of 5% p.a. over 
the medium to long-term, investing in shares in one third-party holding company. The 
applicable investment memorandum (IM), dated October 2014, explained, amongst other 
things, that Oxford Capital would:
 . .  use your subscription to buy shares in either one or two unquoted companies. The exact 
allocation will depend on the portfolio strategy you select on your application form. . . 
 . . the holding companies are tasked with deploying all the money raised by the Oxford 
Capital EPS. One holding company will make equity investments into subsidiary companies, 
which in turn will own and operate revenue-generating infrastructure assets, such as 
renewable energy installations. The other holding company will, through its subsidiaries, 
provide loan finance to infrastructure companies, receiving its income in the form of interest 
payments.
Those acting on behalf of Mr C say he was content with performance up to 2018. But Oxford 
Capital misled Mr Cs adviser in early July 2018 at a meeting, in which Oxford Capital said 
that the EPS was ahead of target returns.
In February 2019, Oxford Capital suspended the EPS in response to a problem with a plant 
for which the holding company had provided construction finance. Oxford Capital wrote to  
Mr C in April and May 2019, stating that work was still being undertaken to value the shares 
in the EPS. In or around January 2020, the EPS was transferred to a new investment 
manager. That provider valued the portfolio at £51,872.26 in June 2020, by which time        
Mr Cs investment had more than halved in value.
Through his representative, Mr C complains that:
1. Oxford Capital misled him and his adviser, in failing to provide information about 
suspension of the operation of the energy plant. Mr C says that if Oxford Capital had 
been honest about underlying failures in the portfolio from March 2018, he would not 
have remained invested;
2. Oxford Capital offered an incentive to invest, creating an urgency to invest;
3.There was unacceptably high gearing and no communication about it to Mr C or his 
adviser;
4. £16.7 million was associated to one project, thereby exposing Mr C to more risk.     
Mr Cs representative said loans should have been limited to £3 million and no more 
than 10% of the total loan book value should have been associated to a single 
project;
5. Oxford Capital breached the investment discretionary mandate in failing to focus on 
capital preservation;
6. Oxford Capital failed to generate returns of between 3% to 5%;
7. Oxford Capital manipulated communications and failed to present viable long-term 
proposition.
To put things right, Mr C asks that Oxford Capital takes over the investment or return a value 
equal to the decrease in value.
Oxford Capital say:
EPS made several secured loans to energy firms, in line with the mandate;
Discounted fees were offered at the times but not at the time Mr C invested;
At the meeting in early July between Oxford Capital and Mr Cs IFA, information was 
shared about the EPS portfolios generally covering three investment holding 
companies. At that time all (save for one) were performing ahead of target. Oxford 
Capital deny that any guarantees were made about performance but accept it is 
possible that an expression of confidence in continued good performance of the 
portfolio was made;
Mr Cs IFA made the recommendation to invest in one of the holding companies;
The IM, which included the Investment Management Agreement, set out the 
parameters of investment and set out high risk warnings;
Investments with the significant potential benefits of business relief-qualifying 
investments are required to have significant levels of risk;
No guarantees were given about the target return;
There was no limit on the amount EPS companies could invest in a single endeavour 
in the IM. The longer-term aim was to decrease exposure in any single investment to 
under 10%;
Further, there was no limit on the loans amounts in the IM;Whilst there had been an issue with a plant operating company, which was in receipt 
of loans from EPS (to finance construction), as at July 2018 it was anticipated that 
any remediation works were covered under a warranty and a parent guarantee was 
in place. By October 2018, it became clear that the plant would be offline for longer 
and value of the asset was reduced. Oxford Capital advised investors of this at the 
time. It wasnt until February 2019 that it became clear the remedial works would not 
be undertaken as anticipated and at that point Oxford Capital suspended the fund as 
financing was judged to be impaired;
At the time of suspension, the loan represented only 14.5% of the investments held 
by the holding company in which Mr C had invested;
The solar and property construction investment fared well but and anaerobic 
digestion and reserve power investments underperformed due to a series of factors 
outside Oxford Capitals control, namely a change in legislation and regulations 
governing the energy sector, a reduction in wholesale energy prices, market 
saturation and operating difficulties;
It was unfortunate that many of the risks highlighted in the IM materialised;
Management of the EPS transferred to a third party with effect from 31 January 2020. 
Oxford Capital had no involvement in assessing indicative valuations after this time.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought Oxford Capital hadnt done anything 
wrong. There were no meeting notes from the time to show that false statements were made 
at the meeting in July 2018. Having reviewed the IM, our investigator thought that the 
investment strategy was explained along with the inherent high risk with this type of 
investment. The companies invested in and the strategies deployed, were in line with the 
information given in the IM and Oxford Capital explained the investment structure. Despite 
Mr Cs adviser referring to limits or loans, there were no restrictions within the IM.
As to disclosure around the energy plant, our investigator thought that Oxford Capital were 
unaware that remedial works would not be covered the warranty until after Mr C had 
invested. It wasnt until October 2018 that the extent of damage was known, at which point 
investors were advised that the equity value had reduced. 
Our investigator had no information about an incentive and there was nothing to show that a 
timescale with a sense of urgency was being promoted.
Mr C, through his representative, disagrees with the view. It is said on his behalf that it is 
unfair not to accept that reassurances were made at the 2018 meeting, our investigator had 
not reached the right outcome on the investment mandate, high gearing was taken by 
Oxford Capital and the investment should have been liquidated once 5% concentration was 
reached. The representative again said Oxford Capital had failed to act line with the limits on 
permissions, excessive risks were taken, there was a failure to facilitate realistically 
anticipated returns and false communications. 
In response our investigator added that the IM did give notice that companies within the 
portfolio may use debt to service their operational needs and that other financing may be 
required to meet those needs. This possibility was set out in the risks section. No evidence 
had been provided of a finding of wrongdoing by the regulator.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think its helpful to explain that Mr Cs IFA recommended investment into the 
EPS. To be clear this decision does not consider whether that recommendation was suitable 
for Mr Cs attitude to risk, objectives and capacity for loss at the time. Any such complaint 
about suitability of the recommendation lies against the provider of that advice. The 
investment agreement, signed by Mr C, expressly stated that Oxford Capital were not 
responsible for the suitability of the investment as against Mr Cs needs.
Having read all the information provided, I hope Mr C wont take it as a discourtesy that I 
havent addressed every point raised. Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be 
the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. So, the focus of this decision is 
whether Oxford Capital provided clear, fair and not misleading information about the EPS 
and whether it was managed in line with the mandate during the period that Oxford Capital 
was responsible for managing the EPS.
Incentive
I havent seen any evidence that an incentive was offered to Mr C at the time he invested 
and Oxford Capital maintains that a fee discount was not offered at the time, albeit offers 
were made from time to time. Mr C and his representative havent pointed to anything to 
show that inappropriate time pressure was applied or that any complaint about pressure was 
raised at the time Mr C invested. 
Meeting July 2018
It is agreed that a meeting took place in early July between Mr Cs IFA and Oxford Capital. 
On balance, I prefer Oxford Capitals assertion that the meeting was not specific to Mr Cs 
investment but was a meet the manager meeting, at which the holding companies were 
discussed. Despite the assertions made on behalf of Mr C, there is nothing from the adviser 
to show that the meeting was a due diligence exercise. Neither party have provided 
contemporaneous notes of what was discussed at the meeting, so Ive made my decision 
based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Im also mindful that 
memories can fade with time and these events took place almost four years ago. 
Oxford Capital have confirmed that at the time of the meeting the majority of investments 
were performing above target and theyve provided documents to support this. They accept 
that at this time confidence in the EPS was strong. Ive balanced this against the nature of 
these high-risk investments and the repeated risk warnings within the IM which was also 
available at the time. So, whilst I think it is likely that Oxford Capital broadly discussed past 
performance and their future expectations, I dont think its likely that any guarantees around 
future performance and returns were made. Its also important to note that Mr C had 
invested in 2015, so, theres also nothing to show that a meeting in July influenced Mr Cs 
decision to invest.
Investment parameters, returns and risk
Mr Cs representative has said that Oxford Capital exceeded the limits for investment in a 
single endeavour and the amount lent exceeded the limits set. Further it is said that Oxford 
Capital failed in its governance of the EPS because it failed to manage the EPS in line with 
capital preservation and failed to achieve the returns.Ive reviewed both the IM and the due diligence pack for Q4 of 2017 (which was only sent to 
advisers and expressly stated that the risks were set out in the IM). No restrictions were 
placed on the amount that any underlying holding company could lend and no restrictions 
applied as to the amount to be invested within a single investment. No evidence has been 
provided from Mr C or on his behalf to show that he was told any such limits applied. I have 
seen that information was later provided in reports about the average value of loans at the 
time of the reports, so it may be that there has been confusion on the part of the 
representative.
Ive also considered the investment strategy held out by Oxford Capital. The IM explained 
that the subscription would be invested in shares, which should qualify for business property 
relief. The IM also explained that investors could select investment options to meet their 
objectives. Seven different options were presented with an explanation as to each. Ive not 
seen anything to show that the options presented were misleading. Further, Ive seen that 
the application form explained that whilst the investment, targets modest growth . .this is 
secondary to achieving protection from Inheritance Tax.
Mr C invested in the return strategy, Portfolio G, which had the highest target, aiming to 
achieve a return of 5% p.a. No guarantee was given and this was expressly stated under 
the risk to capital section that said, We may not achieve our targeted returns. The value of 
your investment may go down as well as up and is not guaranteed. Companies invested in 
through Oxford Capital EPS may fail . . The risk section also expressly stated in bold that, 
investments in unquoted securities can be more risky than investments in quoted securities 
or shares. Unquoted securities can also be difficult to value and difficult to sell.
Mr Cs subscription was invested in one holding company in line with the option for Portfolio 
G, set out in the IM.  
The IM went on to explain that Oxford Capital would be appointed as the discretionary 
investment manager, which meant they would select the investments on Mr Cs behalf. By 
investing in a holding company, Mr C would acquire an interest in all of the existing and 
future subsidiaries. Progressive diversification was anticipated over time, but there were two 
forms of investment as set out above. Oxford Capital explained that current investment was 
in the infrastructure sector (including energy and power generation) but future investments 
could include a range of other assets.  
I havent seen anything that shows the holding company invested outside the typical 
activities of the holding companies listed above. Ive seen that investment was within the 
energy and property sector. The construction loan in respect of the energy plant was within 
this scope. The IM also explained that contractors could go bankrupt or be unable to meet 
guarantee obligations. If the contractor collapsed or its financial strength deteriorated, any 
guarantee obligations to the investee company may become worthless. Further, investee 
companies may take on debt to purchase assets. It expressly warned of the additional risks 
if the company failed to meet its debts such as the reduction in value or the entering into 
administration, which in turn could reduce the overall value of the EPS investment. So, whilst 
Mr Cs representative has complained that the assets were leveraged, Im satisfied, on 
balance, that the possibility of third-party debt and potential resulting increase in risk had 
been explained.
The risk section also highlighted a number of other risks, including the potential for changes 
in legislation which might reduce tax benefits or make underlying investments more difficult 
to sell. Further, the section addressed the risk of government subsidies and initiatives being 
revised or withdrawn. Also, that underlying investments could be in the same or similar 
industry sections which would increase the level of investment risk.On balance, I am satisfied from the information provided that Oxford Capital provided clear, 
fair and not misleading information about the investment and I think the risks were fairly 
highlighted. Im not persuaded that Mr C has shown otherwise. Im satisfied that Oxford 
Capital made a distinction between investment strategy with a target return and the inherent 
high-risk nature of this investment. And as Ive said whether this level of risk and this 
particular investment was suitable for Mr Cs needs, isnt something Im considering within 
this decision.
Its unfortunate that a number of the risk factors identified in the IM materialised which 
resulted in underperformance of the holding company, but it doesnt follow that Oxford 
Capital did anything wrong. The changes to legislation and falling energy prices were 
matters outside their control as were the events with the construction loan.
Information about the energy plant
First, I think its important to put into context that the loan formed part of the investments held 
by the holding company. At the time the fund was suspended the loan represented 14.5% of 
the investments made by one of the companies Mr C held shares in. The failure of the loan 
was one of several factors, which led to underperformance. Im also mindful that it isnt fair 
and reasonable to make an assessment with benefit of hindsight. At the time Mr C invested 
in 2015, there was no issue with the energy plant.
Those acting on behalf of Mr C have said that Oxford Capital failed to disclose an increased 
inherent risk as they hid the reality of the situation. Ive balanced that against the clear risk 
warnings in the IM in respect of the portfolio, set out above. Further, Ive considered the 
sequence of events below.
On balance, on the basis of the information provided by the parties, I think it is more likely 
than not that Oxford Capital reasonably believed the plant would only be shut temporarily as 
at July 2018, when a meeting took place. They believed that any remedial works were 
covered under a warranty. At that time, it wasnt unreasonable to conclude that any interest 
payments due, would be repaid once the plant became operational. It was only later that the 
extent of the problems became clearer, which is supported by the information in the 
accounts of one of the subsidiary companies. Even if information had been shared in July 
2018, as Oxford Capital took the view that the loan remained secure at that time, I cant fairly 
say now that Mr C would have acted differently.
Once Oxford Capital became aware of the extent of the problem, they relayed information 
about the revaluation of the asset in early 2019. The subsequent failure of the guarantee 
was a matter outside Oxford Capitals control and it was for them to take such steps as 
seemed fit as discretionary manager. Suspending the EPS wasnt outside the range of 
reasonable responses and it was open Oxford Capital to exercise their commercial judgment 
as they saw fit.
I dont underestimate Mr Cs strength of feeling at sustaining losses and I am sorry to 
disappoint him, but in light of my findings, I am not upholding this complaint, so I wont be 
asking Oxford Capital to do anything more.
My final decision
I am sorry to disappoint Mr C, but for the reasons given I am not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman