DRN-2123683
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Simplyhealth Access cancelled their cash plan policy. 
Reference to Simplyhealth Access includes reference to its predecessors.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ds cash plan policy was originally taken out with Simplyhealths
predecessor many years ago. Mr and Mrs D say that theyve had the policy since 1989.
Simplyhealth doesnt dispute that but doesnt have accurate computer records until 2011.
The aim of the plan was to help with the cost of some healthcare and it also provided
personal accident cover.
In June 2019, Simplyhealth wrote to Mrs D and told her that her policy is designed for
customers who live and claim for their healthcare costs in the UK and, as they live in the
Republic of Ireland, they werent eligible for the policy. It gave them notice that the policy
would come to an end on 30 September 2019. In error, Simplyhealth sent Mrs D several
copies of that letter. In July 2019, Simplyhealth wrote to Mrs D and said that it was sorry she
was leaving, which Mrs D thought implied that she had cancelled the policy.
Mr and Mrs D say that theyve had the policy for thirty years. They say that in 1999, before
they left the UK for the Republic of Ireland, they asked if their policy would still be in force
and were told that it would. Mr and Mrs D say that their policy has remained in force for 30
years, 20 years of which theyve lived in the Republic of Ireland. They dont understand
whats changed and think that its unfair for Simplyhealth to cancel their policy.
Mr and Mrs D say that because of their age and previous medical history, they dont think
that another insurer will provide cover. They say that this has come at a particularly difficult
time for them, as it was around the anniversary of a family bereavement. Mr and Mrs D say
that Simplyhealths decision has caused them hurt and anxiety. They want Simplyhealth to
take into consideration the time they have been customers and give them extra time.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, Simplyhealth said that it reviewed its policies and
decided only to offer cover for customers in the UK, the Channel Islands and Gibraltar. It
apologised for the fact that it had sent Mrs D duplicate letters and an incorrect letter.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that he couldnt ask a
business to insure a risk it no longer wished to insure, so he couldnt ask Simplyhealth to
insure Mr and Mrs D. The investigator was satisfied that Simplyhealth gave Mr and Mrs D
sufficient notice. But he thought that Simplyhealth had made mistakes in relation to the
letters it sent to Mrs D and that fair compensation for that was £75.
Simplyhealth didnt agree that it should pay Mr and Mrs D compensation of £75. It said that it
sent Mrs D four copies of the same letter explaining the withdrawal of cover and while only
one letter should have been sent, the letters were identical, so its message was consistent. It
sent a further generic cancellation letter that implied Mrs D had cancelled the policy, which
wasnt the case. It accepted its mistakes and apologised for its errors. Simplyhealth said it
wasnt aware of Mr and Mrs Ds personal circumstances at the time.
The investigator considered what Simplyhealth said but didnt change his view. As there was
no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to
decide.
In July 2020, I sent all parties my provisional decision in this case. I set out why I didnt 
intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, which say:
3.2 You must live permanently at an address in the UK
8.1 The circumstances when we can cancel the policy are:
[]
If we make a commercial decision to no longer offer this product. If this happens, we
will give the policyholder at least three months written notice of our decision and
offer an alternative product, if we have one, in order for cover to continue.
Has the policy been cancelled unfairly?
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint because I dont think that Simplyhealth treated
them unfairly. I say that because:
When Mr and Mrs D first took out the policy in around 1989, they were resident in the
UK, so they were eligible for the policy. When Mr and Mrs D moved to the Republic
of Ireland in 1999, they were no longer eligible for the policy but Simplyhealth says
that it allowed customers to retain cover. Thats consistent with Mr and Mrs Ds
recollection of a phone call in 1999, before they left the UK for the Republic of
Ireland. Mr and Mrs D say that they asked if their policy would still be in force after
they moved and were told that it would.
It was to Mr and Mrs Ds benefit that Simplyhealth allowed the cover to continue,
even though they lived outside the UK, as they continued to have the benefit of the
policy for several years.
Simplyhealth says that in 2014, it decided to operate in the UK only and cancelled
the policies of customers it identified as living outside the UK, after giving appropriate
notice. Its not clear to me why Mr and Mrs Ds policy wasnt cancelled at that time.
Again, that was to Mr and Mrs Ds benefit.
Simplyhealth says that from 2018, it undertook a program of moving customers from
monthly, rolling contracts to annual contracts. As that program progressed, it
identified Mr and Mrs D as living in the Republic of Ireland. That led to Simplyhealths
letter to Mrs D in June 2019, which said that the policy was designed for customers
who live in the UK. In that letter, Simplyhealth gave Mr and Mrs D three months
notice of its cancellation of their policy.
Essentially, Simplyhealth changed its position in relation to providing the policy for
customers who live outside the UK. I think it was entitled to do that. There was no
obligation that it would provide indefinite cover for non-UK residents. I think it gave
Mr and Mrs D adequate notice of its intention to cancel the policy. Im very sorry to
hear that the notice came at a difficult time for Mr and Mrs D, but I dont think that
changes the outcome here.Simplyhealth sent Mrs D four cancellation letters. Whilst that was no doubt annoying
for Mrs D, I dont think it was confusing, as the content of those letters was the same.
Simplyhealth also sent Mrs D a further letter that implied she had cancelled the
policy. That was no doubt confusing. Simplyhealth has apologised for its errors,
which I think is fair. Considering the limited nature and impact of Simplyhealths
errors, I dont think that the fair resolution of this complaint requires it to pay any
compensation to Mr and Mrs D. I think its apology is sufficient.
I invited the parties to let me have any further comments or evidence. Neither Mr and Mrs D 
nor Simplyhealth responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs D nor Simplyhealth have provided anything further, I see no reason to 
depart from my earlier conclusions. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman