DRN-2890939
The complaint
Mr S has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a Royalties 
Gold packaged bank account in 2003. The Royalties Gold package was taken off Mr Ss 
bank account and added to a different account held by Mr S in 2012. 
The Royalties Gold account was later withdrawn by RBS and all Royalties Gold accounts 
were rebranded as a Select Platinum account. Mr S account was rebranded on 3 July 2015. 
Mr S says he did not agree to the account in the first instance.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered this complaint he didnt think that this account had been 
mis-sold. Mr S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has 
been provided, I dont think the Royalties Gold account was mis-sold. I will explain why. 
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything 
that is available. And Ive started by thinking about whether Mr S was given a fair choice to 
take out the Royalties Gold packaged bank account.
Mr S says that he did not agree to take out the Royalties Gold account in 2003. I note though 
he also said that he was sold the account as it would give him a higher interest rate on his 
savings account. I can see that at the time of the upgrade Mr S transferred £65,000 to a 
savings account that would get an additional 0.25% interest rate if the Royalties Gold 
account was held. This means that when the account was sold to Mr S, he would be earning 
more in additional interest each month on his savings than what he was paying each month 
in account fees to have the Royalties Gold account (The monthly account fee at the time 
was £5). So I think that it is likely that Mr S did agree to this upgrade, and he did so to get 
this benefit, though I understand that Mr S may no longer recall this, given that it occurred 
over 17 years ago. 
Mr S has said that he did not need the other benefits of the account as he had his own travel 
insurance and breakdown cover. Firstly, I should highlight that this account did not have 
breakdown cover in 2003. So this is not relevant to this sale. Secondly, while Mr S may not 
have needed the travel insurance, I think that the additional interest earned on the savings 
account was the reason he took out the account.
RBS had to give Mr S important information about the account. Its not clear what 
information he was given, and I accept that he may not have been given all of the important 
information about the account. But Ive not seen anything specific that makes me think he 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given more information 
about it. 
In our original assessment, we mentioned that Mr S was sold a new Royalties Gold account 
in 2012. I have asked both parties what happened, but neither party has explained what 
happened. So overall I do not think that this was a new sale. Instead it seems that the 
Royalties Gold account package was merely moved from one account to another account. 
So I will not be addressing this as a new sale as it seems to be a continuation of the sale in 
2003, albeit under a different account number and I cant see that the change in account 
number detrimentally affected Mr S.
Mr S has also said that he was told that his account would be downgraded once he moved 
the £65,000 out of his savings account. I cant see anything that supports this. And Mr S 
seems to have been aware that his account remained a fee-paying Royalties Gold account, 
even after the balance on his savings account had significantly reduced Therefore had he 
been told this, I think its likely that he wouldve flagged this with RBS much sooner than he 
has done in this complaint. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr S was led to believe he 
was unable to downgrade his account at any time, if he wished to do so.
I understand that this will be frustrating to Mr S and I accept with the benefit of hindsight the 
account may not have provided value for money in the years that hes held it. But this does 
not mean it was wrong for RBS to have sold it in the first instance and overall, I dont think 
the Royalties Gold account was mis-sold.
I should add at this point that this decision represents the last stage in this services process 
and there is no further recourse for us to discuss the merits of this complaint further. That 
said, Mr S is free to pursue his complaint outside of our service - such as in court.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about his Royalties 
Gold account on his account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman