DRN-3827444
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited terminated her account after shed sent 
a deferment application.  
What happened
Mrs P has three student loans. She has deferred payment year on year because of low 
income. Mrs P says she received her deferment application in September 2021 and returned 
it to Erudio.
When Mrs P called Erudio to check the progress of her deferment application she was 
unable to get through on the phone. Soon after this, her house was broken into and she had 
to move out.
When Mrs P moved back into her house, she received letters from Erudio advising her that 
her account had been terminated and the balance was due in full.
Mrs P complained to Erudio. In response, Erudio said it hadnt received a deferment 
application and as a result the account had fallen into repayment. Because payments hadnt 
been made and four months arrears had accrued the account had been terminated.
Mrs P remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said there was no evidence that Erudio had 
received the deferment application. He also said Erudio had sent several letters to Mrs P 
reminding her to defer and advising her that the deferment period had ended and that 
arrears were accruing.
Mrs P didnt agree. She said that when shed called Erudio to check the progress of her 
deferment application there was a recorded message advising her to hang up if she was 
calling about a deferment application. Mrs P said there was no evidence that shed received 
any of the letters from Erudio.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im unable to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs P has said that she returned her deferment application. Shes provided some evidence 
to support this. But she hasnt provided a proof of posting or a proof of delivery. Erudio says 
it didnt receive a deferment application from Mrs P.
Even if I accept that Mrs P sent the deferment application, theres no evidence that this was 
received by Erudio. I cant fairly hold Erudio responsible for not receiving and processing the 
deferment application because of postal issues.
I can see that Mrs Ps deferment term expired on 19 September 2021. Erudio says it issued 
the deferment forms 8 weeks prior to this. It sent reminder letters on 28 August 2021 and 2 
September 2021.
Erudio also wrote to Mrs P on 21 September 2021 advising her that the deferment had 
ended because no application to defer had been received.
Erudio sent a Notice of Sums in Arrears (NOSIA) letter tom Mrs P on 21 October 2021 and a 
NOSIA reminder on 6 November 2021. Mrs P has told this service that she had to move out 
of her house in mid November 2021. The letters sent to Mrs P prior to her moving out are 
correctly addressed and I think its more likely than not that she received these. So I think 
Mrs P wouldve been aware, before she moved out, that her deferment had ended and that 
her account had fallen into arrears.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mrs P tried to contact Erudio about the letter 
telling her that the deferment had ended, or about the letter telling her that the account was 
in arrears. Given the content of these letters, I wouldve expected Mrs P to contact Erudio 
and (despite any message telling her to hang up if she was calling about a deferment 
application) wait on the line to speak to an advisor.
I appreciate that Mrs P tried to call Erudio in October 2021 to check the progress of her 
deferment application. But as Ive already said, Mrs P wouldve received the letter dated 21 
September 2021 by this time, so she wouldve known that her deferment application hadnt 
been received.
Mrs P wasnt living at her house when the Default Notice and the Termination Letter was 
sent. I accept that she may not have received these letters at the time they were sent. 
However, the letters are correctly addressed to Mrs P and I cant see that she notified Erudio 
of any temporary change of address, or that she made arrangements for post to be 
redirected. I cant fairly hold Erudio responsible for Mrs P receiving these letters late, 
because they were sent to the correct address.
Looking at all of the letters that Erudio sent to Mrs P, Im satisfied that 9 of the 12 letters 
were sent before Mrs P moved out of her property. I also think the letters make it clear that 
the deferment has ended and that no deferment application was received.
Taking everything into account, and because I havent seen evidence to prove that the 
deferment application was received by Erudio, Im unable to uphold the complaint. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Mrs P had hoped for. If Mrs Ps financial 
circumstances mean that she cant settle the account, Id expect Erudio to consider this 
positively and sympathetically and to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman