DRN-2861896
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr P took out the PPI in 1993 during a meeting in a branch.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr P says he was led to believe that he needed to take out PPI as a condition of getting the 
mortgage agreed.
BoS has provided a copy of the separate application form that Mr P has signed to confirm 
that he wanted the policy. From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, the PPI 
was usually presented as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to 
conclude that something different happened in this case.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ps recollection of events 
has faded. Looking at the available evidence, Im satisfied that Mr P probably decided to buy 
the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
BOS advised Mr P to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending the PPI, it needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ps circumstances at the time, the 
policy was suitable for him.
Mr P says his employer would have given him sick pay of six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay. However, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer than Mr P would have received full pay for (it could have paid out to a 
maximum of 24 months for accident and sickness). And Mr P didnt have any other means, 
such as savings, to fall back on. A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and so it 
wouldnt be surprising if Mr P had an interest in protecting his repayments. Overall, I think 
that Mr P had a need for the PPI and could have benefitted from it.
I think that Mr P would have known something about the policy - that it would have covered 
his mortgage repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think he would have bought it without knowing anything at 
all about it.
Its possible that BOS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr P wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that Mr P had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change him mind. 
This means that BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. But BOS 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
When the policy was sold,  BOS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. 
Because BOS didnt tell Mr P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman