DRN-4434560
The complaint
Ms P complains Monzo Bank Ltd allowed an unauthorised transaction to leave her account 
and didnt recover it when she disputed it. Ms P also complains about the way she was 
spoken to by an agent.
What happened
Ms P has an account with Monzo.
Ms P says she signed up for a free trial with a third party and that they subsequently billed 
her for £225. Ms P contacted Monzo to say shed not authorised this transaction.
Monzo looked into Ms Ps dispute and said the information shed given was conflicting and 
not clear and that as shed had dealings with the third party  and had given them her card 
details  it wasnt going to raise a chargeback. Whilst Monzo was investigating, Ms P 
contacted Monzo to ask how long shed have to wait and when she was told the timescale 
she asked for her claim to be prioritised. Ms P says the agent she spoke to was lacking in 
sympathy and understanding and was judgmental. Ms P complained about this and Monzos 
decision not to raise a chargeback. She came to us as Monzo didnt uphold her complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ps complaint and said that they didnt think Monzo 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably as it had considered whether or not Ms Ps chargeback 
would be successful and decided it was unlikely to be so. Our investigator didnt think that 
was unreasonable. Ms P was unhappy with our investigators recommendation and asked 
for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has acknowledged that she signed up to a free trial with the third party in question. I 
can see too that the third party in question explained  when Ms P disputed the £225 
payment that went out of her account  that this payment was for a paid advert for an event 
Ms P was helping with. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Monzo  when it was 
deciding whether or not to raise a chargeback on Ms Ps behalf  to come to the conclusion 
that the payment had been taken in accordance with the third partys terms and conditions. 
More importantly, when looking into complaints about chargebacks, our role is to consider 
whether or not, in this case, Monzos decision to raise or not raise a chargeback was fair and 
reasonable. That often involves the business  in this case Monzo  deciding whether or not 
the customers chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success. Thats in part because a 
chargeback isnt available as a right  its a discretionary scheme. In the circumstances, I 
agree with our investigator that Monzo didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when it declined 
Ms Ps claim. I accept that Ms P wasnt, for example, sent a one-time passcode authorising 
the payment before it went through, but that doesnt mean the payment was fraudulent, for 
example. And I accept too that shed likely earmarked this money for other purposes.
Ms P also complained about the way one of Monzos agents spoke to her. That was during a 
call when she was asking for her claim to be prioritised. Ive listened to that call, and Im 
satisfied that the agent was genuinely trying to assess whether her claim was of the type that 
Monzo ought to prioritise. I can see why Ms P was upset by what he said. But I dont agree 
what happened during the call was unfair or unreasonable given that the agent was trying to 
decide whether the claim needed prioritising.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman