DRN-3440304
The complaint
Mr T complained that Cia Insurance Services Limited (Cia) didnt reasonably administer his 
landlords insurance policy. Cia were acting as Mr Ts broker.
What happened
Mr T received policy information from Cia to his home address, but he was unhappy with the 
condition the post was received in. Mr T said I have received a number of renewal letters 
which are unsealed and open at my home address. I am worried that my personal
information can then be seen by external parties.
Mr T was also unhappy with the renewal process for his policy. Mr T said I stated that I did 
not want my policies index linked the next year. I then received an email stating that the 
policies would not be renewed next year which is not what I requested. I only asked for the 
index linking to be removed. I then had to contact [Cia] again to correct this. I logged a 
complaint regarding this and was offered £5. I refused and wanted more but this was all they
would offer.
Cia apologised that Mr Ts renewal notification was received in an unsealed condition. It said 
I can confirm that our processes ensure that post leaves the office in an acceptable 
condition. This includes mechanical sealing and also, checks from a member of our 
administration team. I can only apologise that you have not received this standard
you expect from ourselves on this occasion. Unfortunately, we have no control over the 
condition of your post once it leaves the office. Additionally, I am confident that the quality of 
our envelops is acceptable, as if they were not, we would be inundated with customer 
complaints to this fact. Cia also explained its data protection checks that are in place to 
provide added security for its customers.
With regards the administration error with the renewal, Cia said I apologise for the 
inconvenience caused to yourself due to a human error within an email from one of our
advisors. I appreciate that this may have caused frustration and confusion, however the 
wording error was corrected via email within 13 minutes. That being said, had the error gone 
unnoticed, you would have suffered no financial impact as the error was not present within 
your formal documents or our system. Furthermore, the error was in reference to a future
policy that does not yet exist. As a goodwill gesture, I am offering a discount on your policy 
of £5. Mr T rejected the offer and requested £100 in compensation.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought the £5 compensation for 
the administration was fair for the impact of the error and didnt see any evidence that the 
post was unsealed and didnt think it was reasonable to hold Cia responsible for the 
condition of the post after it had left its offices. Mr T disagreed, so the complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T made raised two issues within his complaint, so I have considered these separately.
Renewal administration
Mr T said the only reason the administration issue was resolved was because I emailed 
them regarding their error. So, it was not due to them spotting the error and fixing it. It was 
due to my diligence, so £5 is woefully inadequate. I can see Cia has apologised for the error 
as well as offering the compensation. I think the compensation offered is in line with what our 
service would look to recommend based on the level of distress and inconvenience. Whilst I 
recognise the frustration this incident may have caused Mr T it was corrected by Cia 
immediately and the error caused minimal impact. Therefore, I think the apology and 
compensation offered is fair, so I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Unsealed post
Mr T has been unable to provide evidence through photographs of the opened letters he 
received. Cia said it sent the letters sealed. Im not suggesting what Mr T has said isnt right. 
But, as the two parties have provided different accounts and there is no evidence for me to 
decide one way or the other, Im in a position where I dont have the evidence to uphold this 
complaint.
Cia has explained its mail and wider security processes and Im persuaded that it takes 
these responsibilities seriously. I dont think its fair to hold Cia responsible for what happens 
to letters that arent within its control after they have left its offices. Therefore, I dont uphold 
this part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Cia Insurance Services 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman