DRN-2281198
The complaint
Miss P complains about Monzo Bank Ltd and their decision to approve a loan she feels was 
unaffordable at the time.
What happened
In early August 2019, Miss P applied for a loan with Monzo. This application was approved, 
and Miss P was given a loan of £2,000.
But Miss P entered financial difficulty in 2020 due to a change in her working circumstances 
and income that arose from the COVID-19 pandemic. After reviewing her finances, she felt 
Monzo had acted irresponsibly when approving the loan, so she raised a complaint in July 
2020.
Miss P thought Monzo hadnt carried out appropriate checks when approving the loan. And 
because of this, shed been left with a loan that was unaffordable. She explained shed had 
to take out further credit to pay for day to day living expenses in order to ensure she could 
meet the monthly payments of the loan in question. So, she wanted this to be looked into.
Monzo didnt agree. They thought theyd made proportionate checks and the information 
these checks provided showed the loan to be affordable. So, they didnt think they needed to 
do anything further. Miss P wasnt happy with this response, so she referred her complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained the thought 
Monzo had made the checks hed expect to see, based on the amount and duration of the 
loan. So, he couldnt say Monzo had approved the loan irresponsibility. 
And he thought the information these checks provided showed the loan and the monthly 
payments to be affordable. He explained at the time, the credit checks showed Miss Ps 
outstanding accounts to be managed well and that the minimum payments of these accounts 
left Miss P with a reasonable amount left to cover day to day expenses. And he didnt think 
the information on Miss Ps Monzo account suggest any issues with the way she spent her 
money. Because of this, he didnt think Monzo needed to do anything more.
Miss P didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be escalated without providing any further comments. As 
Miss P didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this complaint has caused Miss P. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been difficult for Miss P when her income was impacted by the pandemic and the 
restrictions that were put in place. And I can understand why she would use this time to 
reflect on the outstanding debts she had. But for me to say Monzo have done something 
wrong, Id need to see that they failed to complete checks proportionate to the value and 
duration of the loan at the time of its approval. Or, that they acted unfairly when deciding on 
its affordability based on this information. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the checks Monzo completed when deciding to approve Miss Ps loan application. 
They took into consideration Miss Ps yearly income, the average household expenses of 
someone living in Miss Ps location of the same age, and her existing debt reported on her 
credit file. They also considered the existing information about Miss Ps existing Monzo 
account and how this was managed.
The loan Monzo approved was for £2,000 with repayments over a duration of 24 months. 
So, the value of loan was equivalent to under two months of Miss Ps monthly income. And it 
was to be repaid over what is a relatively short term. 
Had the loan amount been more significant, or the term over a longer period of time, then Id 
expect Monzo to have made the necessary extra checks to consider the greater financial 
commitment this wouldve been to Miss P. But in this situation, I dont think the financial 
commitment was great enough for me to say income and expenditure forms, or copies of 
bank statements, were required for Monzo to reasonably approve the loan. So, I think the 
checks they made were proportionate to the loan and its duration. So, I think the checks 
Monzo made were sufficient to approve Miss Ps application and I cant say theyve done 
anything wrong.
But Ive also considered whether they assessed the information the checks generated fairly, 
when deciding if the loan was affordable. 
Ive seen Miss P told Monzo she worked full time, with an annual income of £23,500. She 
also confirmed she was renting at the time of the application. Based on this information, 
Monzo estimated Miss Ps take-home income to be £1,620. And they estimated that Miss Ps 
monthly expenditure would amount to around £893. Although I appreciate this was an 
estimate, Ive seen it was based on relevant national statistics focusing on Miss Ps age, 
income and geographical location. So, I think this was fair for Monzo to do considering the 
amount and duration of the loan they were looking to approve.
And Ive seen from Miss Ps credit file, the minimum payments on her outstanding debts 
totalled £90 a month. Monzo added a buffer of £50 to their calculation, to recognise their 
expenditure prediction as an estimate rather than calculated from Miss Ps bank accounts. 
So, added together, Monzo calculated Miss P to have £587 per month to account for day to 
day spending.
The loan Monzo approved included monthly repayments of £98.95. So, after this monthly 
payment was made, Miss P would be left with almost £500 to account for day to day 
expenses based on the calculations Monzo made. I wouldnt have expected Monzo to deem 
the loan to be affordable based on these calculations. 
And Ive seen from Miss Ps credit file that she was managing her outstanding debts well 
when the application was approved. The majority of Miss Ps account were under the credit 
limit the accounts imposed, and the minimum payments were being made every month. Although I understand Miss P had one County Court Judgement (CCJ) brought against 
her, I can see this was satisfied a year before she applied for the loan with Monzo, so I dont 
think this in itself was enough for Monzo to fairly say the loan shouldnt be approved.
Monzo also took into consideration the way Miss P managed her outstanding account with 
them. And I dont think there was information within the way she managed this account that 
suggested she had an addiction that was impacting her financially. And as Miss P didnt 
make Monzo aware of this herself, I dont think it would be fair for me to say they did 
something wrong when not taking this into consideration.
Because of the above, I think Monzo assessed the information that have available fairly were 
reasonable to approve the loan. So, I dont think they need to do anything more.
Thats not to say I dont understand why Miss P, with hindsight, now feels the loan was 
unaffordable. I recognise shes suffered financially due to current pandemic and that having 
to maintain a monthly repayment to prevent her credit file being impacted wouldve been 
difficult and frustrating. But my decision is based around the actions Monzo took, and the 
information they had available, at the time of the loans approval. And based on this, I think 
their decision to approve the loan was both responsible and fair.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.A
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman