DRN-1500695
 
The complaint
Ms A complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) charged late 
payment fees and interest on her credit card even though the balance had been repaid in 
full. 
What happened
Ms A has a credit card with Virgin, she gave instructions to them to clear her outstanding 
balance by way of direct debit and then cancelled the direct debit. Ms A says that Virgin then 
applied interest to her credit card account even though the balance was cleared. This has 
now resulted in further charges to her credit card account and late payment markers to her 
credit file. 
Virgin says the interest and charges have been applied fairly and Ms A had been informed of 
this in her credit card statements and subsequent letters sent to her. Ms A wasnt happy with 
this and Virgin was slow in responding to her complaint. Ms A then referred the matter to this 
service.
The investigator looked at all the available evidence provided but didnt uphold the 
complaint. He felt that Virgin had acted fairly in applying the interest due on Ms As credit 
card. The investigator says Ms A had access to statements to show that interest had been 
charged and letters had been sent to her explaining that she needed to make payments to 
her account to avoid arrears. As a result, the investigator felt that Virgin had acted correctly 
when updating her credit file. 
Ms A wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for this to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can see that Ms A may have felt she had settled her credit card account when clearing the 
outstanding balance by way of direct debit. I also understand she then cancelled this direct 
debit believing there was nothing left to pay, but that wasnt the case here. 
Ms A still had interest accruing on her credit card account from her last interest payment 
date, towards the end of July 2019, until the credit card balance was settled in mid - August 
2019. Ms A has said that the direct debit was set up to clear her outstanding balance and 
that is what happened here but as her previous statements show, interest is also chargeable 
on the outstanding balance for the period between the last interest payment date and mid-
August, when the balance was settled. 
I have also listened to a telephone conversation between Ms A and a member of Virgin staff 
and it was explained to Ms A that there was residual interest owing, but Ms A still didnt think 
that was right and went on to lodge her complaint. Following this, I am satisfied that Virgin 
have provided Ms A with enough information to show that the interest was payable. This was 
explained to her in a telephone call and also detailed on her credit card statements. It is Ms 
As responsibility to check her statements and read the terms and conditions of her credit 
card agreement.
I have considered the issue regarding her credit file being referred to Credit Reference 
Agencies for late payments, but Virgin have acted correctly here as they are obliged to 
report any arrears or late payments to reflect the true position of Ms As finances. 
I understand that Virgin have, as an act of goodwill, refunded all interest and charges and 
subsequently the credit card account has been closed. I am satisfied Virgin have acted 
reasonably here, as they had no obligation to do this given the interest and charges were 
charged correctly. 
While Ms A will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of Virgin.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman