DRN-3863903
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC *Barclays) didnt cancel her fee-paying 
Travel Plus Pack when she asked for it to be cancelled. Ms S says she asked Barclays to 
cancel it in June 2019 and March 2020.
Ms S also says that Barclays shouldnt have continued charging for the Travel Plus Pack 
anyway, due to the government-imposed restrictions during the pandemic.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Barclays had acted 
unfairly in this matter. 
Ms S disagreed and so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S says that she asked for her Pack to be cancelled in June 2019 and March 2020. 
Unfortunately, Ms S has not been able to provide any evidence of the calls she says she 
made. So the adjudicator asked Barclays to check its call records for Ms Ss mobile phone 
number and land line number, around the dates that Ms S says she asked for the Pack to be 
cancelled.
Barclays provided evidence of the calls it could locate for Ms S between June 2019 and 
March 2020. It also provided evidence of calls it could locate for Ms S between January 
2021 and May 2022. Having reviewed all of the evidence that Barclays has been able to 
provide, there is no indication that Ms S asked for her Pack to be cancelled (that is until 
Barclays received her request to cancel in May 2022). Having listened to the calls (prior to 
May 2022), and read the transcripts provided, there were not even references in the calls 
about previous requests for the Pack to be cancelled not being action either.
As such, based on everything that has been provided, Im unable to conclude that Barclays 
had failed to act on an instruction to cancel the Travel Plus Pack in June 2019 or March 
2020.
Furthermore, Barclays has provided evidence to show that the monthly fee continued to 
appear on Ms Ss bank statements. And it has provided evidence to show that it wrote to Ms 
S about the Travel Plus Pack in February 2020, December 2020, March 2021 and October 
2021. So Barclays did what it needed to do in terms of making Ms S aware that she had the 
Travel Plus Pack on her account and what it covered.
Finally, I understand that Ms S feels that Barclays shouldve removed the monthly fee for the 
Travel Plus Pack anyway, on the grounds that account holders were unable to use the 
benefits it provided (such as travel insurance and breakdown cover) due to the government-
imposed restrictions during the pandemic.
In this case, Ms S may feel (quite understandably) that the Pack was poor value for money 
during the pandemic. And I appreciate that other insurance product providers did include a 
discount or refund on premiums paid, due to policy holders not being able to travel. But the 
Travel Plus Pack does not operate like a typical insurance policy. Rather than offering to 
provide cover for a set amount of time like a typical insurance policy would - usually for 12 
months or for a specific trip - it provides cover (and access to non-insurance benefits) on a 
monthly rolling basis. 
This means that Ms S was free to cancel it at any time, as soon as she felt it was no longer 
good value for money for her circumstances. Because of this, Im unable to conclude that 
Barclays shouldve stopped charging account holders who still had the Travel Plus Pack on 
their account during the pandemic.
Therefore, as Ive been unable to say that Barclays has done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly in this matter, Im unable to find in Ms Ss favour on this occasion. I appreciate that 
this will come as a disappointment to Ms S, but I can only base my decision on everything 
that our service has been provided with.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman