DRN-3365251
The complaint
Mr T complains AXA Insurance UK Plc have recorded his motor insurance policy as 
cancelled which he doesnt think is fair. Hes also unhappy that following the settlement of a 
claim theyve not paid taxi fares they said they would or paid an amount for stress theyve 
put him and his family through. Mr Ts also unhappy AXA havent completed a 
Subject Access Request (SAR) as hed asked.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr T bought his car on 28 January 2020, and his insurance policy with AXA started on 
16 June 2020. On 31 July 2020 Mr T was told the wheels on his car were cracked, so he 
paid to have them replaced. Unfortunately, on 2 August 2020 his car was stolen, so he 
registered a theft claim with AXA  and when this went on for a long time, he complained 
about it. 
Having not got a reply, he then asked us to look into things in November 2020. Shortly 
afterwards, AXA said they wouldnt be meeting Mr Ts claim, because hed added new 
wheels at a cost of around £6,200. They said this was a modification, and had he told them 
about this, they wouldnt have continued to offer cover under his motor insurance policy. 
AXA also cancelled Mr Ts policy on 20 November 2020.
One of our Investigators looked into things. And, following a number of questions from him to 
try and reach an outcome, AXA reconsidered their position  telling us this on 13 April 2021. 
They said they shouldnt have turned down the whole claim based on the change of wheels 
 and now would recommend paying the claim minus the cost of the wheels. On 5 May 2021 
this was agreed at a payment for Mr Ts car of £29,000, minus the policy excess of £550.
Following this, Mr T wasnt happy his policy had been cancelled with this being recorded on 
the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database, they didnt pay his taxi costs, hadnt 
paid him compensation for the stress hed experienced  and theyd not completed the SAR. 
CUE is a database of some insurance incidents including cancelled motor policies like 
Mr Ts. Some insurers, when agreeing new policies will check this database, to ensure the 
information provided by a prospective policyholder is accurate. And, most insurers will ask if 
a prospective policyholder has had a policy cancelled in the last five years, and some will 
even ask if thats ever happened. So, it can have a long-lasting effect on someone.
On 24 June 2021 AXA did address this complaint of Mr Ts. They said when he told them 
about the modifications theyd not been declared, so they had to check if he would still be 
covered. They decided he wouldnt be, so the cancellation of the policy remains and wouldnt 
be changed.
They added the claim was turned down incorrectly, and it took them many months to correct 
this. They said they understood Mr T was claiming for taxis at a cost of £15,248. But, under 
the policy terms theyd only cover 14 days hire at £15 per day totalling £210, and alternative 
travel arrangements cover at £300. They said the maximum then theyd consider is £510, as 
anything else is above the policy limits.
AXA said they know Mr T was without his claim settlement of £29,000 for many months, so 
theyd added 8% simple interest on to this amount. This came out to £985.21. 
In summary, AXA accepted theyd let Mr T down. So, in addition to the £510, plus the 
£985.21 payments  they credited Mr Ts account with a further £500 compensation.
In a separate response the following day, AXA said Mr Ts SAR was actioned in April 2021, 
by sending out the relevant forms to him to complete. They said theyd not refused to 
complete his SAR but have processes to follow. They resent the forms for him to complete.
Mr T remained unhappy with this, so asked us to look into the complaint hed raised against 
AXA  which, for clarity, didnt include the valuation of his car as that matter had been 
resolved. One of our Investigators found AXA had acted fairly with their offer to settle the 
outstanding issues on the claim. 
Mr T didnt agree, although hes not set out in detail why, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of issues to address in this complaint:
How Mr Ts policy has been recorded on CUE  and the implications of that
Whether they should be refunding him the taxi costs hes claimed for
Whether the compensation of £500 paid is enough
Not completing his SAR
Ill consider all aspects, and then in a separate summary section at the end, give my 
thoughts on what I think is the right way for this case to be resolved.
I think its worth explaining up front, that I think Mr Ts claim has been misunderstood by a 
number of parties at AXA during the claims process.
From the information I can see, Mr T has been clear and consistent in saying the only 
addition hes made to the car since he purchased it is the wheels he added two days before 
the car was stolen. This is also information he volunteered when making his claim. 
Reference has regularly been made to other additions  but hes said these were on the car 
when it was bought. Its not in dispute the car wasnt bought new by Mr T, and the other 
modifications could easily have been installed by the manufacturer when the car was bought 
new. As Ive seen no reason to dispute that, Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr T hasnt 
made any modifications to his car other than to purchase four new wheels  and my findings 
reflect this.
How Mr Ts policy has been recorded on CUE  and the implications of that
AXA have accepted Mr Ts claim as a result of him adding the wheels just two days before 
the theft, and because of the way the policy is worded. This says:Please tell us of the following changes (via your AXA Account if possible) either before the 
change or as soon as you possibly can.
The changes referred to in this term would have included the new wheels Mr T had 
purchased. From the internal notes I can see, AXA felt theyd been harsh in turning down the 
entire claim because the wheels had only been bought two days earlier  and they accept 
they dont define as soon as you possibly can as written in the above term.
Ultimately Mr T has agreed a settlement with AXA for the theft of his car  so Im not 
considering that here.
But, in using the logic theyre satisfied its appropriate to pay out for the cost of the car 
because of the wheels being bought two days earlier, it calls into question for me whether 
theyve then treated Mr T fairly by cancelling his policy.
In effect, what theyve done is cancel it because he didnt tell them about the wheels. But, 
theyve paid the claim  accepting theyd been harsh in not doing so.
To me, one flows from the other  as AXA have accepted the claim because it was only two 
days between him buying the wheels, it follows I think they shouldnt record a cancellation. 
Theyd only have done this, if Mr T didnt tell them as soon as you possibly can. But, after 
the claim was made, Mr T did tell them about the new tyres hed bought  and quite 
promptly.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think its fair for the cancellation to be applied  
and I think this should be removed from all internal and external databases.
AXA will also need to provide an indemnity letter, saying his policy was cancelled by them in 
error. Mr T can then take this letter to any current or previous insurers hes used since this 
incident happened and ask them to consider refunding him extra premium hes paid as a 
result of having a cancellation on his record. If his other insurer(s) dont do this, Mr T will be 
able to raise a new complaint to AXA about it. 
Whether they should be refunding him the taxi costs hes claimed for
Ill explain in more detail below, but AXA werent given the relevant information to assess 
Mr Ts claim until 16 October 2020. So, even if I were to decide AXA should be fully 
responsible for his taxi costs, it wouldnt be appropriate for them to pay any costs between 
10 August 2020 when Mr T registered his claim, and 16 October 2020 when AXA had 
everything they needed  as this delay wasnt their fault.
But, between then and 12 November 2020 AXA had all they needed to consider Mr Ts claim 
 and ultimately turned it down unfairly. So, I think during this time, AXA should refund 
Mr Ts taxis costs. Thats 16 October 2020 to 12 November 2020 inclusive. And, based on 
the taxi invoice Mr T has provided, comes to £1,588 for 22 journeys. 
I do need to factor in AXA paid Mr T £510 for this element of his complaint  so Ill deduct 
that from the figure above  leaving £1,078 to be paid. And, on each payment, Ill require 
AXA to add 8% interest, as this is money Mr T paid out he shouldnt have had to, but for 
AXAs error.
After this time, Mr T knew AXA wouldnt be paying out on his claim, so had a responsibility to 
mitigate his costs. I can see on 26 November 2020 Mr T bought a new car  and has said 
the costs for insuring it were very high  so he continued using taxis. But Mr T couldnt have known AXA were going to change their mind about paying out on his claim  nor whether we 
were going to agree his claim should be paid out. Despite that, he continued using taxis, and 
his invoice goes up to 13 May 2021. It wouldnt be fair for AXA to refund this, as theyd made 
their position clear, and it was Mr Ts responsibility to choose the most appropriate option for 
his transportation needs at this point.
Whether the compensation of £500 paid is enough
The compensation of £500 has been paid by AXA to reflect their failings in handling Mr Ts 
claim. So, Ive looked at whats happened, to determine whether I agree compensation is 
fair.
Mr T first told AXA about his claim on 10 August 2020. It then took a bit of time for him to get 
the documents AXA needed (such as a V5C document) because theyd been in the car 
when it was stolen. Mr T provided those documents on 16 October 2020. The claim was 
then upheld on 13 April 2021 and paid on 5 May 2021. So, it took around nine months to pay 
this claim  of which for seven months AXA had all the information they needed to fairly 
decide the claim.
For a relatively straightforward issue, thats clearly an unacceptable amount of time.
Most concerning for me is that AXA werent really listening to what Mr T was telling them. It 
seems AXA regularly made assumptions about what modifications had been made to the car 
 saying Mr T had made them all himself. Theres a comment from an engineer saying they 
had concerns regarding this  but I cant really see anyone at AXA looking to properly clarify 
this matter with Mr T before turning down his claim and then cancelling his policy.
While I cant agree with Mr Ts comments they were simply looking for a way not to pay his 
claim, as Ive seen no direct evidence they were deliberately avoiding paying his claim, I do 
think human error mean theyve handled things very badly.
These errors led to immense frustration on Mr Ts part, with him attempting to clarify on 
many occasions what the true situation was. My interpretation of his many contacts with AXA 
is he felt he needed to do this because he didnt feel like he was being listened to  
something I agree with based on my review of everything Ive been provided. And this went 
on for an extended period of time, due to no fault of his own.
So, in short, I cant agree £500 is enough. I think more is deserved, but Ill factor this into the 
overall figure, which Ill explain in the summary section below.
Not completing his SAR
From the information Ive seen the reason Mr T wanted information from AXA about his data 
was primarily due to him being told the claim had been turned down  and the explanation 
he was given about that in the phone call.
AXA have said they sent Mr T the forms he needed to complete in April 2021 after he made 
a SAR, and again in June 2021 when theyd issued their complaint outcome following the 
settlement of the claim.
Based on what I can see though, Mr T was asking for phone calls hed had with AXA back in 
October and November 2020. He didnt say he wanted a SAR specifically, as Ive heard he 
only became aware of this specific right / terminology in a conversation with our Investigator 
in March 2021. But AXA seemingly ignored his repeated requests to provide copies of the call recordings which he asked for  and I wouldnt expect Mr T to have to use the technical 
name for something in order to get what hes entitled to.
Its clear in the emails and his phone conversation with our Investigator how frustrating he 
found this. So, Ill consider this in the summary section.
Summary
Overall, I dont think AXA have handled Mr Ts claim very well at all. From taking seven 
months to fairly decide an outcome, applying a cancellation they shouldnt have, not 
refunding costs they should have, and not providing him with a SAR.
So far, AXA have paid £500 compensation, but I think a fairer amount for this would be 
£1,000 in total. So, in addition to the £500 already paid, Ill require them to pay a further 
£500 to settle this matter.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T replied, saying thanks, he was pleased hed finally be taken off CUE  and said hed 
accept only being partially refunded for his taxi costs.
AXA said there seemed to be some confusion:
Theyd not registered Mr Ts cancellation on any external databases, only internally 
which they would now remove. They have though uploaded the details of Mr Ts theft 
claim to CUE, which they said wont be removed as the claim has been paid.
Theyll arrange a letter of indemnity for the period 15 June 2020 to 
19 November 2020 as this covers the period when the policy was incorrectly 
cancelled. They said they couldnt offer cover beyond 19 November 2020 as the car 
was stolen on 2 August 2020.
They also agreed to the taxi and compensation payments Id recommended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank both parties for replying promptly, allowing me to finalise matters 
quickly.
I apologise for the confusion caused regarding what would be uploaded on to CUE. Ive 
noted AXAs comments Mr Ts cancellation was never uploaded externally to any databases, 
and their confirmation theyll remove this from their internal databases. Thats fair because it 
removes all trace of it. But, for Mr Ts peace of mind, Ill leave it as a requirement for AXA to 
remove the cancellation from external databases as well. So if, for some reason, Mr T 
becomes aware of AXA having recording this externally, he can remind them of my decision 
where I required them to remove that record.
Ive also noted their comments on saying the theft claim needs to stay on CUE. Thats 
correct and there isnt any reason why it should be removed as thats accurate reporting. So, 
although some record of the claim will remain on CUE, Mr Ts concerns were about having 
to declare a cancelled policy on future insurance applications  which he shouldnt need to 
do in future subject to the questions hes asked. And, just to be clear, Mr T will most likely need to declare he has still had a claim and will need to make sure hes answering the 
question hes asked in future carefully.
Putting things right
The actions I require AXA to take are:
Remove any record of the cancellation of the policy from any internal or external 
databases.
Provide Mr T with a letter of indemnity to explain the policy was cancelled in error by 
them.
Refund Mr T £1,078 towards the costs of his taxis
Pay 8% interest* on each payment from the date of the journey, to the date of the 
settlement. If AXA wanted to calculate the 8% for the whole figure from 
12 October 2020 for ease, as this benefits Mr T, thatll be acceptable also.
Pay additional compensation of £500, bringing the total compensation up to £1,000.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires AXA to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. AXA must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he 
asks them for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I partially uphold this complaint and require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman