DRN-4149161
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined his claim following an accident
when driving his car and avoided (treated it as though it never existed) his motor insurance
policy.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr H was involved in a car accident. He reported the matter to AXA. The car
was considered a total loss by its engineer, who also identified the car had a vinyl wrap. AXA
subsequently wrote to Mr H to decline his claim and confirm his policy was to be avoided
back to inception.
In its letter AXA says Mr H had failed to declare a modification when he purchased his
insurance policy in November 2021. It says had he answered the questions he was asked
accurately it wouldnt have offered him cover. AXA told Mr H his policy would be declared
void on 23 June 2022 and his premium would be refunded in full.
AXA says Mr H told it hed bought the car as it was and hadnt added the wrap himself. Also,
that he later told it the wrap was limited to the bumper, and that this was temporary until he
could afford to pay someone to remove it. AXA says it has seen images from Mr Hs social
media accounts that show the colour of the car changed some months after the policy was
taken out.
Mr H didnt think AXA had treated him fairly and so contacted our service. Our investigator
didnt uphold his complaint. He was satisfied Mr H had misrepresented information about his
car. He says AXA has shown it wouldnt have offered cover had it been aware of the vinyl
wrap.
Our investigator says the relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure
and Representations) Act 2021 (CIDRA). In these circumstances he thought AXA had
behaved fairly in avoiding Mr Hs policy and refunding his premium in line with the CIDRA
rules.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We asked AXA to provide the questions Mr H was asked when he purchased his insurance
policy online. I can see he was asked, Does the car have any modifications?. Mr H
responded, No.
Ive read Mr Hs policy schedule and his terms and conditions booklet. The policy schedule
confirms that no modifications had been declared by Mr H. This section explains that a
modification is anything that changes the makers standard specification including cosmetic
changes or manufacturers options.
The policy terms say that Mr H must advise of any changes that occur during the policy
period. This includes a section under the General Conditions heading, that reiterates the
information about notifying AXA of any alterations or modifications from the standard UK
specification.
I think its clear that Mr H didnt advise AXA of a modification at the inception of his policy.
But its also clear hes expected to provide accurate information. This includes notifying AXA
of any modifications that are made to his car during the policy year.
Ive examined the photos AXA has supplied with its engineers report. This shows the main
body of the car is white, with the rear bumper and boot a green/blue colour. The front
bumper has been severely damaged and isnt visible in the photos. From the images AXA
obtained from Mr Hs social media accounts, his entire car was a blue/green colour in 2021.
This colour then changes at some point, prior to the accident, to the white body and
green/blue bumpers and boot.
Based on this evidence Im satisfied Mr Hs car changed colour after he bought his insurance
policy. AXA confirms its engineer found this was due to a wrap that had been added.
AXAs approach to this case appears somewhat confused. It has sought to avoid Mr Hs
policy back to inception relying on the CIDRA rules. However, this requires Mr H to have
misrepresented information to AXA when he bought the policy. In its submissions to our
service AXA says Mr H added the wrap after his insurance policy commenced. I agree this is
what the evidence shows. This means Mr H didnt misrepresent information when his policy
was incepted, as there was no modification on his car at this time.
Ive thought about what actions the policy terms allow AXA to take here.
The agreement between Mr H and AXA requires that he notifies it of any modifications that
are made, to his car, during the term of his policy. The terms say that if Mr H tells AXA about
a change, it will assess how it affects his policy. This could mean an additional premium or
could mean AXA can no longer offer cover.
Im satisfied that a modification was made to Mr Hs car within the policy year, and that he
didnt tell AXA about this. In failing to do so Mr H wasnt acting according to the terms of his
agreement.
In certain circumstances it might be reasonable for an insurer to vary, or cancel, the terms of
an insurance policy, but this can only be when the nature of the risk changes fundamentally.
When an insurer issues a policy of insurance, they effectively agree to cover the policyholder
against certain contingencies. Generally, if a policyholders circumstances change during the
term of the policy, we see that as part of the general risk that insurers take on. I wouldnt
therefore expect an insurer to cancel a policy mid-term for changes which are not
fundamental.
A fundamental change to a policy would be something that significantly changes the risk for
the insurer, such as a change of car, or a significantly larger engine. AXA hasnt said why
the modification to Mr Hs car increased the risk posed, other than to point to its underwritingcriteria that shows this isnt something its prepared to cover. I dont think that what is
essentially a cosmetic change, represents a significant difference to the nature of the risk.
Having thought carefully about this, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for AXA to rely on a
change of risk to either avoid or cancel the policy. Because of this it should reconsider Mr
Hs claim under the remaining terms of his policy without reliance on the modification clause
to deny it. In the event a settlement payment is provided AXA should add 8% simple interest
from the date of the claim until the payment is made.
AXA should ensure that any record of the avoidance is removed from any internal and
external data bases. It should also provide a letter to Mr H explaining the avoidance was
carried out in error. He can show this to any current or future insurer to ensure premiums are
calculated fairly.
Ive thought about the impact all of this has had on Mr H. Avoiding his policy and not
considering his claim has meant that he has been inconvenienced and left out of pocket.
This must have caused distress and inconvenience. I think its fair that AXA pays Mr H £250
to acknowledge this.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint and AXA should:
reconsider the claim without reliance on the modification clause, if this results in a
settlement payment it should pay 8% simple interest from the date of the claim until
this payment is made *If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It
should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate;
provide Mr H with a letter confirming the avoidance was completed in error; and
pay Mr H £250 compensation
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr H responded to confirm that he didnt have a wrap on the car at the time he insured it with 
AXA.
AXA responded to say it considers the vinyl wrap was a fundamental change for two 
reasons. Firstly, it says the modification makes the vehicle more expensive for it to repair in 
the event of an accident. It says as this is on the surface of the vehicle it will likely be 
affected in the event of any accident. AXA says even minor damage could result in an 
expensive replacement of the entire wrap.
The second point AXA made is that a wrap is not in the list of acceptable modifications it 
covers. It says the modification changes the vehicle so that its no longer insurable. AXA 
says its policy wording around modifications is very clear, which it says isnt disputed in my 
provisional decision. 
AXA refers to its policy wording that sets out what isnt acceptable. Also, its term that 
requires Mr H to inform it of changes to his vehicle as soon as he possibly can. AXA says its 
policy wording confirms a customer may be given the option of paying an additional 
premium. But this only applies if the change was still an acceptable risk under the policy. It 
states that a wrap is not an acceptable risk. AXA concludes its response to say it feels declining the claim is the correct decision here as 
Mr H failed to disclose the vinyl wrap and breached the terms of his policy. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Hs comments. However, this doesnt change my understanding of what 
occurred and doesnt warrant a change to my findings. 
Ive thought about AXAs comments that the addition of the vinyl wrap constitutes a 
fundamental change to the risk. 
In my provisional decision I said Mr H hadnt answered AXAs questions incorrectly when he 
took out his policy. He told it his car didnt have any modifications, which is supported by the 
evidence. This means he didnt misrepresent information to AXA and it wasnt reasonable for 
it to rely on the CIDRA rules to avoid Mr Hs policy. I said it might be reasonable for AXA to 
vary its terms or cancel the policy if there was a fundamental change in risk. 
AXA thinks there was a fundamental change because of the addition of the wrap. But I dont 
agree. In my provisional decision I referred to a larger engine, or a different car as examples 
of what a fundamental change that significantly changes the risk could be. I acknowledge 
what AXA says about the potential cost involved in repairs involving a vinyl wrap. But Im not 
persuaded its shown this is a fundamental change that required it to take the action it did. I 
also note this isnt a cost featured in its engineers assessment of the damage to Mr Hs car.
I accept AXAs comments that a vinyl wrap isnt included in its list of acceptable 
modifications. In my provisional decision I said that it was made clear to Mr H in his policy 
documentation that he should report any changes to his vehicle made within the policy term. 
He didnt do this. But as discussed, for AXA to fairly decline the claim and cancel the policy, 
the change must be fundamental to the risk. I dont think it was, for the reasons I set out here 
and in my provisional decision. So, Im not persuaded to change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should:
reconsider the claim without reliance on the modification clause, if this results in a
settlement payment it should pay 8% simple interest from the date of the claim until
this payment is made *If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It
should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate;
provide Mr H with a letter confirming the avoidance was completed in error; and
pay Mr H £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman