DRN-2579128
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money they lost when they fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs R fell victim to a scam.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all in 
great detail here. But both parties accept that Mr and Mrs R were contacted by a fraudster, 
who had intercepted an exchange of emails theyd had with their builder regarding works 
being carried out on their property. The fraudster tricked Mr and Mrs R into making two 
payments totalling £21,500 (£12,500 and £9,000 respectively), that they thought were 
towards the building work  but that were actually made to an account controlled by the 
fraudster.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs R hired a building company to carry out renovation work on 
their property. Mr and Mrs R have told us that they initially had a face to face meeting with 
the builders, with future communication being through email to an office administrator who 
was their main point of contact. The overall cost of the work was estimated to be £140,000 
and Mr and Mrs R exchanged a number of emails with the builders, regarding costs, quotes, 
materials and with details of various trades.
Mr and Mrs R have said the work commenced on 13 January 2020 and the builders were 
making great progress, with materials (including a kitchen) being delivered and a team of 
around 4 builders working on the project each day. Mr and Mrs R had been told they would 
be sent invoices and so were expecting to make a payment.
On 29 January 2020, Mr and Mrs R were in discussions (via email) with their builders about 
when plastering work would start, and it was confirmed it would start after some windows 
had been installed. The following day, on 30 January 2020, Mr and Mrs R received an email 
from who they thought was their builder, which mentioned some materials that were required 
and asking for a payment of £12,500  the email included details of where the payment 
needed to be made to. Mr and Mrs R hadnt made any previous payments to their builder at 
this point.
Unknown to Mr and Mrs R at the time, the email had been intercepted and they were now 
communicating with a fraudster. Believing the email to be genuine and as they were 
expecting to make a payment, Mr and Mrs R went ahead and made the payment through 
their online banking.
On 3 February 2020, Mr and Mrs R received a further email, which again they thought was 
genuinely from their point of contact at the builders - the office administrator. But was once 
again from the fraudster. The email explained that tradesmen were being arranged, but that 
a further payment was required for materials. The email asked Mr and Mrs R to make a 
further payment for £9,000 and referred to a pre-arranged meeting Mr and Mrs R had with 
the office administrator later that week (which Mr and Mrs R had genuinely arranged), 
confirming that during the meeting a spreadsheet would be finalised.
Believing this was another genuine request for a payment. Mr and Mrs R went ahead and 
made the further payment for £9,000.
On 6 February 2020, Mr and Mrs R received a further email from the fraudster  this time 
requesting that a payment for £6,320 be made for electrical works.  But the request was for 
the payment to be made directly to the electrical company. Mr and Mrs R hadnt agreed on 
an electrician, so before making the payment wanted to discuss this with their builders. As 
Mr and Mrs R had a pre-arranged meeting scheduled with the builder for the following day 
they decided not to make this payment, with the intention of discussing it with the builder 
when they met. On 7 February 2020, Mr and Mrs R attended the meeting as planned and 
raised the matter of the payment requested for the electrical work. The builders confirmed 
that they hadnt made any requests for payment and the scam came to light. Mr and Mrs R 
raised the matter with HSBC on the same day.
Mr and Mrs R have told us that they think this was a sophisticated scam and they thought 
the requests for payments were entirely reasonable. They said that the communication was 
very professional and convincing; with emails from the fraudster continuing the theme of 
conversations they had genuinely been having with their builders and mentioning upcoming 
appointments.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case, it says; Mr and Mrs R ignored warnings, were grossly 
negligent and they made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing the payment 
was for genuine goods or services and who they transacted with was legitimate. 
HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs R on 24 February 2020 with its final response. It said that 
regarding the payment for £9,000, the beneficiary bank (the bank to who the money was 
sent) had confirmed it was liable for one-third of the loss (£3,000), HSBC said that it was 
also one third liable (but hasnt clearly explained why) but said the remaining third sat with 
Mr and Mrs R. What this meant was that Mr and Mrs R would receive a refund of £6,000 in 
relation to the £9,000 payment. HSBC added that the beneficiary bank didnt accept any 
liability for the £12,500 payment.
HSBC went on to say that it could have done more to protect and advise Mr and Mrs R 
before they made the payments. And what that meant was it could have provided more 
effective warnings on Online Banking when the payments were set up, which may have 
made Mr and Mrs R stop and think, before proceeding. 
Because of this HSBC considered it was 50% liable for the £12,500 payment Mr and Mrs R 
had made, and it agreed to refund £6,250.
But it added that it believed Mr and Mrs R could also have done more to verify the emails 
before sending the payment. It said the following fraud alert warning was displayed at the 
time the payment was made on its Online Banking service;
Dont fall victim to a scam, Criminals pretend to be people you trust, like a company youd 
pay bills to, the police or even first direct. If you have received an unexpected request to 
make a payment then stop and contact the company using a telephone number from a 
trusted source e.g. their website. first direct will never ask you to move money to another 
account, but criminals will.In total Mr and Mrs R received a refund for £12,250 on 21 February 2020 and HSBC has 
said it also credited Mr and Mrs R with £10 for the cost of calls. HSBCs customer notes 
indicate that it recovered £1,000 from the beneficiary bank, but it is not clear when this was 
refunded to Mr and Mrs R. But since bringing their complaint to us, Mr and Mrs R have 
confirmed that they received a further payment for £1,250 from HSBC for funds that had 
been recovered.
Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. She didnt think the warnings provided by HSBC were specific or impactful. In 
addition, she felt Mr and Mrs R had a reasonable basis for believing the instruction theyd 
received was genuine. So she thought HSBC were liable under the provisions of the CRM 
code.
HSBC responded, disagreeing with our investigators view. In summary it said;
- it disagreed strongly that Mr and Mrs R had a reasonable basis for belief that the 
payment was for genuine services, or that who they were liaising with was legitimate
- the view had been reached without regard to personal characteristics, in that Mr and 
Mrs R were not vulnerable or unsophisticated
- its offer of 50% was in compliance with the CRM code and was fair and reasonable
- Mr and Mrs R did not meet the requisite level of care and should rightly bear some 
responsibility
- it was its strong view that taking into account the circumstances, Mr and Mrs R 
clearly behaved in a grossly negligent manner
- there were highly concerning factors regarding the case which could and should have 
caused Mr and Mrs R to question the legitimacy of the payment 
- Mr and Mrs R chose not to heed red flags, such as why the account was not an 
HSBC account, but with another bank
- Mr and Mrs R did not call the representative to validate the details, despite the fact 
the email address did not match the previous emails
- this was not a sophisticated scam, it was very straightforward and mirrors the type of 
scam consumers are warned about. HSBC referred to one of its leaflets where e-
email interception scams are mentioned and says that a quick check of this wouldve 
raised obvious concerns and led Mr and Mrs R to contact their builders
Our investigator, in response, didnt agree that Mr and Mrs R had been grossly negligent. 
She agreed there were some differences between the fraudulent and genuine email, but not 
enough to give Mr and Mrs R cause for concern. Mr and Mrs R considered HSBCs 
accusation, that they were grossly negligent, was outrageous. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded Mr and Mrs R the 
full amount they lost. And I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
- In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr and 
Mrs R lost.HSBC, although admitting it could have done more to protect Mr and Mrs R before they 
made the payment, argue that three exceptions from the CRM Code apply. It argues; 
- Mr and Mrs R ignored an effective warning.
- Mr and Mrs R made the payments without a reasonable basis of belief that the 
person they were paying was the person they were expecting to pay and was 
legitimate.
- Mr and Mrs R were grossly negligent. 
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about the warnings it gave, whether Mr 
and Mrs R had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine and whether 
they were grossly negligent. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. In 
particular I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs R failed to take the requisite level of care 
required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
HSBC hasnt been explicit about whether Mr and Mrs R have ignored effective warnings. 
Though it has referred to the warnings they would have seen. So for completeness I have 
thought about whether I think Mr and Mrs M did ignore warnings. HSBC says it provided the 
following warning when the new payment was set up and before Mr and Mrs R confirmed the 
payment;
Dont fall victim to a scam, Criminals pretend to be people you trust, like a company youd 
pay bills to, the police or even first direct. If you have received an unexpected request to 
make a payment then stop and contact the company using a telephone number from a 
trusted source e.g. their website. first direct will never ask you to move money to another 
account, but criminals will.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met. Ill explain why.
- This warning has a broad scope and doesnt specify the relevance of checking the 
account details (where they have been received via an email) or what the 
consequences of not doing it were. 
- The code sets out that Effective Warnings should enable the Customer to understand 
what steps a customer could take to address the risk, such as more appropriate 
payment methods which may have additional protections, and the consequences of 
not doing so. Im not persuaded the warning HSBC gave here explicitly states Mr and 
Mrs R may be at risk of losing their money - or that such a payment might be 
irrevocable and the loss irretrievable and;
- The warning fails to advise the customer that, where they have received account 
details by email, they should confirm these verbally with the person they are 
expecting to pay. Confirming account details in person or over the phone with the 
sender is almost always sufficient to prevent this type of scam. So, its crucial that the 
importance and relevance of doing this is explained to a customer (as well as the 
consequences of not doing it). So, I dont consider the warning enabled Mr and Mrs 
R to understand the steps they could have taken to help prevent their loss, nor 
explained the consequences.
- In addition, the warning suggests only unexpected requests for payment require 
verifying, using the telephone number from a trusted source. In fact, most email and 
invoice intercept scams are successful because the customer is expecting to make a 
payment  as was the case with Mr and Mrs R. The building work had started and 
materials had been delivered to their property  so I consider it reasonable for them to have been expecting to make a payment, and that they werent surprised to 
receive such a request.
- Im mindful that HSBC has also submitted that it provides guidance regarding scams, 
which included email interception scams. But Ive not seen any evidence that the 
leaflet it has referred to, was presented to Mr and Mrs R at the time of them making 
the payment. I consider it is unfair to assume that they would have even seen or read 
this leaflet at any time. Im not persuaded that HSBC has been able to evidence here 
that it has met the requirements, that it should be able to evidence that warnings it 
provides met the minimum criteria set out in SF1(2)(e) of the Code.
Overall, in all of the circumstances of this case Im not persuaded HSBCs warnings were 
impactful or specific enough in the context of this scam to amount to an effective warning. 
Im not persuaded that its more likely than not the warnings HSBC provided here would 
satisfy the requirement to positively affect Mr and Mrs Rs decision making in the way 
required by the CRM Code.
It is not clear whether the warning was provided for just the first payment Mr and Mrs R 
made, or for the second as well. But, in any event, even if the warning had been displayed at 
the point Mr and Mrs R were making the second payment, for the same reasons Ive 
explained, Im not persuaded the requirement of the effective warning exception have been 
met. 
In this case Im also satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mr and Mrs R lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief because:
- Mr and Mrs R were expecting to receive an email from their builder and were 
expecting to receive invoices for payment. They had been in regular communication 
with them by email and the receipt of an email requesting a payment did not cause 
them any concern. I think its understandable Mr and Mrs R expected to make a 
payment, especially considering work had already started and materials (including a 
new kitchen) had been delivered to their property.
- The emails from the fraudster appeared within a chain of genuine emails between  
Mr and Mrs R and their builders and referred to legitimate conversations that had 
taken place, such as organising decorators and referring to a pre-arranged meeting. 
- While HSBC argue that the email address from the fraudster was different  Mr and 
Mrs R have explained that the full email address didnt appear -just the name of who 
was sending it, which was their builders name, as they were looking at it on their 
phone. Im persuaded by what Mr and Mrs R have said here and this is supported by 
screen shots of the emails that Mr and Mrs R have provided. I dont consider its 
realistic for firms to expect customers to look out for discrepancies in an email 
address, particularly when a firm has not sufficiently alerted a customer to the 
possibility of a fraudster posing as a legitimate business in the middle of a chain of 
genuine email correspondence, using the same or a similar email address.
- Here the prefix of the email address the fraudsters used was the same as the 
genuine email. The difference in being the end of the email address which carried a 
similar word to architect. So, even if Mr and Mrs R had seen the full email address, I 
dont think it would have caused them concern as they had engaged with architects, 
through their builders, as part of the project. 
- It was only after the scam came to light that they looked more closely at the email 
address. I dont think Mr and Mrs R wouldve closely analysed the email address to 
check it was exactly the same  particularly as the email from the fraudster was in 
response to an email theyd sent to their builder. I can understand, without detailed knowledge of how these scams work, why Mr and Mrs R would have considered the 
email they received, with an instruction to make a payment was genuine. The email 
from the fraudster contained the correct named point of contact, company logo and 
referred to earlier conversations within the genuine chain of emails.
HSBC has argued Mr and Mrs R were not vulnerable or unsophisticated, and that this wasnt 
a sophisticated scam. I dont think Mr and Mrs R were vulnerable at the point the scam took 
place. But, email intercept scams are common and catch many victims  I dont think they 
are unsophisticated scams either. Ive not seen anything in the banks or Mr and Mrs Rs 
submissions that persuades me their characteristics should make them any less susceptible 
to this type of scam.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied HSBC has been able to establish that when 
Mr and Mrs R sent the payment they did so without a reasonable basis for belief.
Ive gone on to consider HSBCs point that Mr and Mrs R clearly behaved in a grossly 
negligent manner. For HSBC to establish this, it would require a very significant degree of 
carelessness on Mr and Mrs Rs part. I am not persuaded their actions meet that very high 
bar. I dont think Mr and Mrs Rs actions show a lack of care that goes significantly beyond 
what a reasonable person would have done in the same situation. I dont think they 
disregarded or acted with indifference towards the risk of their money being stolen. 
Im persuaded that they took the actions they did with the genuine belief that they were 
following a legitimate request from their builder to make a payment. I think in similar 
circumstances a reasonable person would have acted in the same way Mr and Mrs R did 
here.
Overall, I am persuaded that Mr and Mrs R did meet their requisite level of care and I dont 
believe HSBC has established it was able to choose not to refund them under the Code. In 
the circumstances I think it ought to have fully refunded Mr and Mrs R under the provisions 
of the CRM Code and so it should fairly and reasonably refund the remainder of that loss 
now.
The entire experience has clearly been upsetting for Mr and Mrs R, who say they have 
suffered anxiety and panic, as this was a significant part of the cost of the work they were 
having done and it has delayed their progress with this.
Im conscious its the fraudsters, rather than HSBC, that have ultimately caused the loss, but 
Im persuaded HSBC should have refunded the loss under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
Had it done so, much of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs R would have 
been avoided. For these reasons I think it should pay a total of £150 in compensation.
Putting things right
 The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost. So I think its fair that HSBC UK Bank Plc;
- refund the money Mr and Mrs R lost (less any money that has already been refunded 
to them)
- pay £150 for the material distress and inconvenience they experienced
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman