DRN-2595804
The complaint
Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. The PPI was linked to her credit card in 2003 and provided unemployment, accident 
and sickness protection. Mrs B says she wasnt told enough about the policy.
What happened
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs B has already received some money back for part of the commission Barclays received 
from selling her the PPI. However, she still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the first place 
and disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
We dont have Mrs Bs original application for the credit card, but from records we can say 
this was completed on or around 25 June 2003. We have a copy of an example application 
form which we know would have been probably used at that time and this suggests Mrs B 
wouldnt have been asked about PPI during this application process.
We know, however, that according to Barclays records she would have most probably been 
sold the PPI over the phone. The PPI wasnt added until 6 October 2003, so by the time she 
was sold the cover, shed already had her card.
Theres no recording of the call, but as it was 17 years ago, this isnt particularly surprising or 
unusual; businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. However, we have quite a 
bit of experience in dealing with these types of sales. And we have a copy of the telephone 
script we know was used at the time to sell these policies. Looking at what this says, I think 
its more likely that the call-agent would have been prompted to get Mrs Bs consent before 
adding the PPI to her card account and would have given her certain information, such as 
the cost. I also think that because Mrs B already had her card account without PPI, she 
would have been able to understand that this type of protection cover was optional.
With this information, I think her consent was most likely obtained and shed have been able 
to see the PPI charges eventually appearing on her monthly statements.
Barclays says the PPI would have probably been recommended to Mrs B. This means it had 
an additional duty to ensure it was suitable for her. Overall, I think it probably was.
This is because Ive looked at Mrs Bs situation. I think she was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Ive thought 
carefully about everything we know about Mrs Bs situation of that time. I note, for example, 
that she says she had life insurance and another PPI policy for her mortgage. 
Whilst I understand the points being made, these do cover different eventualities to her 
credit card PPI. And although she may well have had an element of sickness protection with 
her job, Im afraid nothing Ive seen necessarily means the PPI wasnt suitable for her. The 
policy would have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if 
shed needed to claim. This would have been in addition to any other means she had at that 
time. I also see that the cost was 79p per £100 outstanding on the card, which I think would 
have been affordable for Mrs B.
So, I think this policy was suitable for her.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mrs B 
could make an informed choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. During 
the call  from what the script says - I think shed have been given enough information 
about the PPI policy and overall, I think she probably had enough information to decide what 
she wanted to do. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs B but I think its more likely she agreed to the policy and 
would have known it wasnt something she needed to have. This means Im not upholding 
her mis-sale complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
However, Barclays Bank UK PLC has already agreed to pay her for part of the commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman