DRN-3401228
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Theyre unhappy 
that a switch to a new fixed rate wasnt implemented when it should have been. Its a joint 
mortgage and a joint complaint, but all of our dealings have been with Mr C.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs C and HSBC. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs C being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage product was nearing its end, so they arranged a new fixed rate. 
The new deal was meant to take effect from 26 November 2021, but during a phone call on 
29 November, it became apparent that the switch hadnt gone through; interest was being 
charged on HSBCs standard variable rate (SVR). Mr C asked for a refund of the £490 
product fee and £500 compensation, which HSBC considered too much. It corrected the 
omission by backdating the product switch to 26 November, agreed to refund the additional 
interest charged in error, and paid Mr and Mrs £50 compensation.
In January 2022, Mr C contacted HSBC again saying it hadnt provided the new monthly 
payment details for the three components of the mortgage. He reiterated that the £50 HSBC 
had paid for the delay in applying the new rate was too little, and asked for £250 
compensation. HSBC sent out fresh copies of the payment notifications it had first sent on 
30 November 2021, but didnt offer any more compensation.
Mr and Mrs C brought the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think HSBC need do any 
more than it had done in refunding the additional interest and paying £50 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
The case is relatively straightforward. Thats because I dont have to decide if HSBC made a 
mistake; its already admitted that. All I have to decide if HSBC has responded fairly to the 
complaint, or if it needs to do more. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his email of 30 March 2022, Mr C says HSBC should refund the overpayments that 
resulted from interest being charged at SVR. HSBC has refunded the overcharged interest 
by crediting it to the mortgage account in reduction of the balance, and Ive seen evidence of 
this. If Mr and Mrs C want that money returned to their bank account, they can ask HSBC 
directly to arrange that, and if they do the bank should comply with the request. However, 
Mr and Mrs C need to understand that if they do that, their mortgage balance will rise by the 
amount of the return.
Mr C says the sum hes asking for is consistent with our general approach to compensation; 
however, I dont agree. In my view, this was not a systemic problem but a simple oversight. 
Nothing in the available evidence gives me cause to think it was down to anything other than 
inefficiency, and HSBC put things right as soon as it became aware of the problem.
Mr C has said the worry of being on SVR has impacted on his mental health. For me to find 
that this warranted further compensation than HSBC has already paid, Id have needed to 
see a diagnosis from a medical professional, specifying the cause and extent of Mr Cs 
mental condition. As things stand, all I have to go on is that Mr C became aware the 
mortgage was on SVR on 29 November, and HSBC remedied that immediately.
In short, HSBC did everything Id expect it to in the circumstances, and by doing so, 
minimised the potential impact on Mr and Mrs C. The £490 booking fee Mr and Mrs C paid 
was to secure the new fixed rate, so they have what they paid for.  In my view, the action 
HSBC took, including the payment of £50, was reasonable in the wider circumstances. If no 
settlement had been made, I would not have awarded more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and 
Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman