DRN-2177315
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc when he applied for a 
credit card and wanted to complete a balance transfer. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr S applied for a balance transfer credit card with Santander. He gave the 
details of the card he wanted to transfer from and the amount. His application was accepted, 
and he received the credit card and information about setting up online access to his 
account. But he didnt receive any information about the balance transfer, and when he 
looked online, he saw it hadnt been done. So he requested the transfer again, and then 
received confirmation by email and text message of what his remaining balance was. 
Mr S then received an unexpected call from Santander, but he was concerned the call may 
not have been legitimate and so wasnt happy to give his personal details. He then received 
a letter asking him to visit a branch with proof of his income and some identification. He did 
this but was also told more information was needed. He returned to the branch later but was 
told it was too late as it was shortly before closing time. 
Mr S complained about the service he received but also that hed been told the balance 
transfer had gone ahead when it hadnt. He said hed suffered a loss through the interest 
hed been charged on his other credit card and said he should be compensated for this and 
his inconvenience. 
Santander said that it had needed further identification and evidence from Mr S so that it 
could proceed with his account application. But hed since said he no longer wanted to go 
ahead with the account, so it was closed. Santander said that although it had initially 
accepted Mr Ss balance transfer request, this was rejected the same day and so would not 
have left the balance of his other credit card. It said it had made every effort to notify Mr S 
about this, which was why it had called him and sent him a letter. But the evidence Mr S had 
taken into the branch wasnt acceptable, and so it had needed to ask him to revisit with more 
details. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that although he agreed that the letter sent to Mr S didnt say that his balance transfer 
had failed, hed also listened to the recording of the call Santander made to Mr S. He said 
Santander had explained the purpose of the call but Mr S hadnt wanted to go through 
security information so Santander explained what the next steps would be and said that a 
block had been placed on Mr Ss account until the matter had been resolved. The 
investigator thought Santander had done enough and didnt think it would be fair to say it 
had caused Mr S to suffer a loss by not specifically mentioning that the balance transfer 
wouldnt go through then. 
The investigator acknowledged that Mr S had been frustrated that, each time hed provided 
documents, it had requested more evidence. But he said it wasnt our role to require a bank 
to alter its policies or procedures.
 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He said, from his point of view, the whole 
situation was relevant as to why there shouldve been no problem with the balance transfer. 
He said hed applied for a credit card and provided all the information requested. He then 
received confirmation that his application had been accepted, and receiving the card and 
PIN, and activation letters made it appear that everything was fine with the application. 
He said it was only later when he requested the balance transfer again, that Santander 
raised an issue with his application. He said it would be unfair to assume that any consumer 
given these circumstances should have somehow guessed that Santander had reversed the 
balance transfer when it had confirmed it had already been completed. If he had been told 
earlier that the balance transfer had been reversed, then he couldve made other 
arrangements to repay the balance on his other credit card and not incur the interest on it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ss reasons for feeling confused and frustrated by his application for 
this credit card and balance transfer. I can see that hes acknowledged that Santander is 
entitled to request any information and make a decision about who to offer a credit facility to 
and has said that this in itself is not his complaint.
 
Mr S has told us that his concern is that he had confirmation that the balance transfer had 
gone through and then Santander only told him later that it had been reversed. 
The welcome letter sent to Mr S with the credit card says that, if a balance transfer had been 
requested, this would complete as soon as the card is activated. I can see from the records 
that a text message reminder to activate the card was later sent to Mr S. When he made his 
application, hed given the card number for the account he wanted the balance to be moved 
from, and the amount he wanted to transfer. However, I can see that the credit limit 
Santander offered him was less than that amount. 
And then, when Mr S became aware that his initial request hadnt been processed, he 
completed an online request to transfer a lower amount within the credit limit. 
Ive considered the email and text message that Mr S received following the day. These say 
that the balance on his credit card was more than 90% of his available limit, and gave the 
remaining amount left. This matched with what wouldve been left available after the balance 
transfer. Considering the times they were sent and the address the email was sent from, 
these appear to be automated alerts which are likely to have been triggered before the 
reversal of the balance transfer, which happened the same day.
 
Although I can see why these messages led Mr S to believe his balance transfer had gone 
ahead, Santander did try to call him later that day about his credit card account. And while I 
understand Mr Ss reasons for not wanting to give information over the phone to an 
unexpected, unprompted call from a bank; this meant that the information Santanders 
representative could give him was limited. Ive listened to the recording of that call, and the representative is clear that they are calling 
about the application and a post review of it. I dont think they were rude in their approach, or 
insensitive to security concerns as Mr S has suggested. When Mr S explained that he didnt 
want to answer the security questions, the representative asked him to take some 
information into a branch  identification; payslips and bank statements showing the salary 
credits. The representative also confirmed that Mr S could call back and confirm the contact 
was genuine; and that his application would have a security block on the credit facility until 
the documentation was provided.
 
So while I appreciate that this call and the subsequent letter may not have specifically said 
that the balance transfer hadnt gone through, I think Mr S wouldve been made reasonably 
aware that his credit facility had been blocked until he provided the information Santander 
was asking him for. As I understand it, the balance transfer amount was reversed soon after 
it was initially processed and so it wouldve stayed on the balance on Mr Ss other card and 
wouldnt have shown on his balance with Santander.
 
Mr S was sent a statement for his Santander account dated two weeks after the balance 
transfer was reversed, and this shows it was done the same day it had been processed, and 
the day before Santander attempted to speak with him. And the statement for his other credit 
card which is dated two days after the balance transfer amount was reversed, showed no 
activity on that account, and the balance that was still outstanding. 
I acknowledge that Mr S has visited the branch to provide his identification and payslips and 
has needed to return several times. However, Santander had explained that the evidence he 
gave wasnt acceptable for its requirements, and so it needed to ask him to provide other 
information to be able to go ahead with processing his credit card application. However, I 
understand that Mr S made the decision to close the account instead. 
Overall, although I appreciate Mr Ss strength of feeling about the matter, I dont think 
Santander should be required to compensate him for the interest he paid on his other credit 
card.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman