DRN-3370220
The complaint
Mr L and Miss R complain that Northern Bank Limited, trading as Danske Bank, incorrectly 
advised them they would have a surplus of funds after porting their mortgage. 
What happened
In July 2020, Mr L and Miss R contacted Danske Bank to discuss porting their mortgage as 
they were looking to move home. During the call Danske Bank advised them that following 
the sale of their current property and the purchase of their new property, they would have a 
surplus of approximately £24,000. 
Mr L and Miss R contacted Danske Bank again in November 2020 to complete an 
application to port their mortgage. Again, Danske Bank advised Mr L and Miss R that 
following the sale of their property and the purchase of the new property there would be a 
surplus of approximately £25,000 - £27,000. Based off this information, Mr L and Miss R 
decided to proceed with the application. 
On 25 November 2020, Danske Bank issued a mortgage offer to port Mr L and Miss Rs 
mortgage of £59,123. However, Mr L and Miss R say the day before they were due to 
complete the purchase, their solicitor called to inform them there was a shortfall of £33,000. 
Danske Bank had mis-calculated the money needed to purchase the new property and Mr L 
and Miss R had to use their savings in order to complete the purchase. Unhappy, they raised 
a complaint. 
Danske Bank considered the complaint and found that it had incorrectly advised Mr L and 
Miss R that there would be a surplus of funds. It apologised for the error and paid £500 
compensation for the level of service received. It explained that Mr L and Miss R had the 
option to apply for the full £33,000 to recoup their savings, but they had decided to only 
borrow £10,000 in order to keep their monthly payments lower. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Danske Bank need to do anything 
further. They said Danske Bank had made reasonable attempts to put Mr L and Miss R back 
in the position they would have been in by allowing them to borrow the full £33,000 if 
required. They also felt the payment of £500 compensation was fair and took into account 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr L and Miss R disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They explained the 
additional borrowing of £10,000 was to pay for fixtures and fittings they had ordered in 
advance of the error, not to replace their savings. They said if they had borrowed the 
additional £33,000 it would have meant taking on more debt, further stressing their finances, 
and would have resulted in them paying more interest.
They said if they hadnt had access to savings it would have resulted in them losing the 
purchase and potentially becoming homeless. They explained the whole situation and the 
loss of savings had caused an enormous amount of stress and anxiety  affecting their 
mental health. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Danske Bank doesnt dispute that it gave Mr L and Miss R incorrect information about there 
being a surplus of funds following the sale of their property and the purchase of the new 
property. Unfortunately, this meant that Mr L and Miss R had to use savings in order to 
complete the purchase of their new property. 
Even with Danske Banks error, Mr L and Miss R would always have needed to find funds of 
approximately £33,000 in order to purchase their property. This means they would have 
either needed to have used their savings or take out further borrowing (in addition to the 
mortgage they already had) from Danske Bank or another lender. If Mr L and Miss R had 
decided to take further borrowing, this would have had associated interest and cost them 
more in the long term. 
Danske Bank has explained that Mr L and Miss R could have had the full £33,000 further 
borrowing to replace the savings they had to use to complete the purchase  and where an 
error such as this has occurred, this is what I would expect a business to offer. However, 
Mr L and Miss R decided against this in order to keep their monthly payments low and 
because of the additional debt and interest they would have if they took the borrowing  
which would further stress their finances. 
I appreciate the decision Mr L and Miss R have made and the impact this has had on their 
savings, but I dont think it would be fair to hold Danske Bank responsible for this. I say this 
because Danske Bank has offered to put Mr L and Miss R back in the position they would 
have been in if the error hadnt occurred. And its ultimately their decision not to proceed with 
the offer and to continue to use their savings for the purchase in order to keep costs down. 
I understand that Mr L and Miss R have said the additional £10,000 they borrowed was to 
pay for fixtures and fittings they had ordered in advance of the error  and they are now 
having to pay interest on this amount. However, if Mr L and Miss R wanted to have these 
fixtures and fittings, they would always have needed to raise funds for them. This would 
mean they would have either needed to borrow more on the mortgage to purchase the 
property to ensure there were savings left to pay for the fixtures and fittings, or borrow more 
to pay for the fixtures and fittings as they have now done. Either way Mr L and Miss R would 
have incurred the same cost, so Im satisfied they havent been adversely impacted by 
Danske Banks error. I also note that Danske Bank has waived its usual £150 fee for the 
£10,000 application. This seems fair in the circumstances, considering the misinformation it 
gave Mr L and Mrs R initially.
Mr L and Miss R have raised concerns over the term of the additional borrowing, but I 
understand that since raising their complaint the whole mortgage balance has been put on 
the same term and interest rate. The term and interest rate of a mortgage will affect how 
much the monthly payment is  and if Mr L and Miss R wanted to keep payments low and to 
the amount they were willing to pay (as they have indicated they did), the term of the 
borrowing would have needed to be adjusted to account for this. However, as the term is 
now the same across all the borrowing following changes made by Mr L and Miss R, Im 
satisfied its in the position they now want.  
Mr L and Miss R have said that if they didnt have savings it would have resulted in them 
losing the purchase and potentially becoming homeless. I appreciate what they have said, 
but I dont think its reasonable to make an award of compensation for something which might have happened  as ultimately the situation didnt occur. However, I do agree that this 
situation would have caused Mr L and Miss R trouble and upset. 
Id like to thank Mr L and Miss R for disclosing how this situation has impacted their health 
and for explaining the stress and anxiety this has caused. Im sorry to hear that it has 
impacted them in this way. 
I agree that it would have been distressing to find out that there was a shortfall on the 
purchase of their property and that they would have to use their savings in order to complete 
the purchase. But when considering what Ive outlined above I think the £500 already paid 
by Danske Bank is fair in the circumstances. I say this because I think it takes into account 
the stress and anxiety Mr L and Miss R would have experienced when trying to resolve the 
problem of the shortfall at little notice before completion of the sale. Therefore, I wont be 
asking Danske Bank to do anything further in this instance.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman