DRN-4137830
The complaint
Mrs Os complaint concerns Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds mis-sale of her Free-
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. Mrs O is represented in this 
complaint, but for ease Ill refer only to Mrs O.
 
What happened
Mrs O was a member of the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS). In November 1994, she 
was sold an FSAVC plan by a firm Aviva later became responsible for. And in 1998, Mrs O 
bought an in-house AVC plan after the in-house provider visited her workplace. Mrs O paid 
into her FSAVC plan until 2006, the year she took her FSAVC plan benefits.
In 2022, Mrs O complained to Aviva that its 1994 advice was unsuitable as it should have 
advised her to buy an in-house AVC, not an FSAVC plan. 
Aviva upheld Mrs Os complaint, as it couldnt be sure it had made her aware that FSAVC 
charges were likely higher than for in-house options. But Aviva thought it was only liable for 
this until 1998, when Mrs O bought her in-house AVC plan. Aviva calculated it had caused 
Mrs O a financial loss of £841.62 for the difference in charges between her FSAVC plan and 
an in-house AVC. But it made a 15% deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid in retirement. Therefore it ultimately offered Mrs O a lump sum of £715.38.
Mrs O came to our Service. She said Aviva was unfair to limit its liability to 1998, as shed 
paid into the mis-sold FSAVC until 2006. And when she bought the in-house AVC in 1998, 
the information she was given focused on the in-house options, not a comparison with an 
FSAVC. So buying an in-house AVC didnt alert her to any problem with the 1994 FSAVC 
sale, and she wasnt told she could stop paying into the FSAVC. 
Our Investigator upheld Mrs Os complaint, as she thought Aviva was unfair to limit its 
liability to 1998 given Mrs O was only paying into the FSAVC due to Avivas incorrect advice. 
Aviva disagreed with our Investigator. It said an FSAVC had been suitable for Mrs O, but it 
had upheld her complaint because its 1994 sale hadnt complied with the regulators 
requirements, as Aviva couldnt evidence it had told Mrs O that FSAVC charges were likely 
higher than in-house options. But when she bought an in-house AVC in 1998, she would 
then have been fully aware of the differences between an FSAVC and an in-house AVC, 
because she had both. And she couldve stopped her FSAVC direct debit if shed wanted.
Our Investigator noted Aviva had ultimately upheld Mrs Os complaint about the suitability of 
the 1994 advice. And she thought that while Mrs O had held both an FSAVC and an in-
house AVC from 1998 and wouldve seen they had different charges, that didnt mean she 
knew there was something wrong with the 1994 advice. Our Investigator said Aviva hadn't 
fully informed Mrs O about the differences between FSAVCs and in-house AVCs, and if it 
had, Mrs O would've chosen an in-house AVC. So she thought Aviva shouldnt limit its 
liability to 1998.
Aviva further explained that it thought the 1998 in-house AVC sale had broken the causal 
link in line with the FSAVC Review Model Guidance published by the regulator in 2000. But 
our Investigator didnt change her view. She said shed considered the FSAVC Review 
Model Guidance, but also the particular circumstances of Mrs Os complaint. And she still 
thought it wasnt fair or reasonable for Aviva to limit its redress to 1998, as it should fully 
compensate Mrs O for the financial loss its 1994 mis-sale caused her. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As well as the particular circumstances of this complaint, Ive also taken into account the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time of the sale. 
Aviva argues that the FSAVC was a suitable product for Mrs O in 1994. But I note Aviva 
itself says it cant confirm that, at the time of the 1994 sale, it told her the charges were likely 
to have been higher with an FSAVC  and this is why Aviva accepts the 1994 FSAVC sale 
was non-compliant with the regulators requirements at that time and why it upheld 
Mrs Os complaint that the 1994 advice was unsuitable. So Aviva nonetheless accepts the 
sale was non-compliant - in other words, it accepts the FSAVC was mis-sold to Mrs O. 
Therefore, Ive thought about whether Mrs O would most likely have opted for one of the 
in-house options rather than the FSAVC, if Aviva had complied with the regulators 
requirements. And if the advice given to Mrs O in 1994 had been compliant and she had 
been provided with the information she should have been about the likely differences in 
charges and expenses between the FSAVC and an in-house AVC, then I think its more 
likely than not she wouldnt have opted to take out an FSAVC. 
I say that because, given what I know of Mrs Os circumstances at the time of the 1994 sale, 
an in-house AVC seems to have been a better option for her. Her objective was to maximise 
her pension contributions in a tax efficient way. And in-house AVCs usually had lower 
charges than FSAVCs, meaning more of Mrs Os contribution would have been invested into 
her pension fund for retirement. So I cant see why Mrs O would have opted for an FSAVC 
that would cost more and meant less of her contributions went towards her pension fund. 
Some occupational pension schemes offered an alternative to AVCs known as added years,
where additional contributions could be used to purchase additional years of service in the
occupational scheme. So for completeness, Ive also thought about whether Mrs O would 
most likely have opted for added years rather than FSAVCs or AVCs, if Aviva had complied 
with the regulators requirements at the time of the 1994 sale. 
Based on the evidence provided to me by Aviva, I can see that at the time of the 1994 sale, 
Mrs O had about 14 years of service in the TPS once her breaks in service were taken into 
account. And I dont think the amount Mrs O was contributing to her FSAVC plan would have 
been enough to buy the added years shed need to reach the maximum number of years 
service in her occupational pension scheme. Further, the cost of buying added years is 
determined by government actuaries, and is based on a set of conservative assumptions. 
This means added years would have seemed expensive when compared with the potential 
benefits available from money purchase options like the FSAVC or AVC. And at the time of 
the sale, it wouldve been expected that the AVC scheme would produce greater benefits on retirement as investment returns were expected to be high. So I think its more likely Mrs O 
wouldve opted to invest in the in-house AVC option, as opposed to buying added years.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that if Mrs O been given all the relevant 
information during the 1994 sale, she would more likely than not have opted for the in-house 
AVC option, as opposed to purchasing an FSAVC plan or added years.
Aviva thinks its fair to limit its liability for the 1994 mis-sale to 1998, because it says that 
when Mrs O bought an in-house AVC in 1998, she would then have been fully aware of the 
differences between an FSAVC and an in-house AVC. And so the 1998 in-house AVC sale 
broke the causal link in line with the FSAVC Review Model Guidance. Ive considered this. 
Its important to note that while the Model Guidance is useful, its still simply guidance. It 
doesnt set out rules that all businesses must follow. And, in some circumstances, its not 
appropriate to apply the guidance if it will result in unfair redress for a consumer that has 
been mis-sold an FSAVC plan.
I acknowledge that from 1998, Mrs O had both an FSAVC plan and in-house AVC plan and 
so may have seen that the charges were different. But even if she did see that the charges 
were different, it doesnt follow that this meant Mrs O ought to have realised that Aviva 
hadnt told her everything it was required to in the 1994 sale, in particular about the 
difference in charges and expenses between the FSAVC and an in-house AVC.
Mrs O did buy an in-house AVC plan in 1998, after the in-house adviser visited her 
workplace. This was a tied adviser and so I think its more likely than not that it would only 
have discussed the in-house options with Mrs O; it wouldnt have discussed FSAVCs with 
Mrs O or compared them with the in-house options. And Ive seen nothing else to make me 
think Mrs O ought reasonably to have realised that Aviva hadnt told her everything it was 
required to in the 1994 sale. Instead, I think Mrs O continued to rely on what Aviva told her 
when it sold her the FSAVC in 1994. But as Aviva itself now accepts, it mis-sold that FSAVC 
in 1994. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Aviva to limit its liability 
for its 1994 FSAVC mis-sale to 1998. 
 Putting things right
I think that if Aviva had provided Mrs O with the information it should have done in 1994, she 
would have most likely started making contributions to her employers in-house AVC scheme 
rather than taking a FSAVC plan.
Aviva should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. And for the 
reasons Ive already explained, Aviva should calculate its redress from when Mrs O started 
paying into her FSAVC in 1994 until she stopped paying into it in 2006 - Aviva should not 
limit its calculation to 1998.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requiresongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Os pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs O as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited should pay Mrs O the compensation amount as set out in the steps above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman