DRN-4075267
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that AIB Group (UK) Plc closed his account without his agreement.
Background
Mr G held an account with AIB for many years. In August 2022, he received a phone call 
from an employee of the bank. The caller wanted to ask Mr G some questions to allow it to 
meet its obligations under anti-money laundering (AML) regulations. The call was made from 
a private mobile phone number, rather than the main contact number for AIB and this made 
him suspicious. He was uncomfortable sharing information with someone who had called 
him on a mobile number. Not unreasonably, he suspected that the call could have been 
made by a fraudster presenting themselves as an employee of the bank.
I understand the caller told him that they could contact him a different way to obtain the 
information and offered to send him an email. If they werent able to get responses to these 
questions, then theyd close his account. They opted to close the account shortly afterwards 
by giving Mr G two months notice.
Mr G complained to AIG, but it didnt agree to uphold his complaint. He was unhappy with its 
response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Adjudicator 
who didnt uphold it. She said that the terms and conditions of Mr Gs account gave it the 
freedom to close it without his agreement, so long as it gave him at least two months notice. 
She therefore didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr G disagreed with the Adjudicators opinion. He questioned why the Adjudicator hadnt 
addressed the fact that the bank has since changed its processes so staff no longer call 
customers from private mobile phone numbers. He also questioned why we hadnt 
considered the implications of this previous practice on the banks obligations under the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
As Mr G disagreed with the Adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question under consideration here is whether AIB acted fairly when it closed Mr Gs 
account. As a rule, a bank is free to decide whether its willing to continue offering an 
account to a customer, so long as it exercises that discretion fairly and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. Those terms and conditions specify that it will give a notice 
period of at least two months before closing an account. I can see that the notice period it 
gave to Mr G complied with that requirement. Im also persuaded that two months was a 
reasonable period for Mr G to transfer across to using an account with a different business. 
I do sympathise with Mr Gs position. Given the widespread prevalence of fraud and scams 
that are initiated with unsolicited phone calls, he was justifiably suspicious when he received 
a call from a private mobile number. It should have been possible for the employee of the 
bank to demonstrate their authenticity and the notes recorded by the employee suggest that 
they offered to contact him via a different channel. 
AIB told us that it wasnt unusual for its relationship managers to contact clients using mobile 
phones issued to them by the bank. They wouldnt withhold the number because there are 
many long-established relationships between the bank and its business customers and so 
those employees would be known to the customer. 
Its not inherently problematic for the bank to run its operations in this way, although I can 
see why it would need to manage data protection risks carefully. I understand from Mr G that 
it has changed this practice since. I cant really comment on why it might have chosen to 
change its working practices  but it doesnt follow that it acted inappropriately by allowing 
some staff to contact customers in this way. I recognise that Mr G has a different view on 
that point, but if he wants to make a general complaint about whether AIB has met its 
obligations under the GDPR, the appropriate body to investigate such concerns is the 
Information Commissioners Office. 
Overall, while it is understandable that Mr G was sceptical about the authenticity of a caller 
from the bank, the fact remains that it is entitled to exercise its commercial discretion to not 
offer him an account anymore and so Im not persuaded it has done anything wrong here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman