DRN-4187737
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that she wasnt able to make a payment towards her Monzo Bank Ltd 
(Monzo) flex account. 
What happened
Miss W holds a flex account with Monzo. This allows her to spread the cost of eligible 
purchases over a three-month interest free instalment plan. Alternatively, a flex account can 
be used to repay purchases over a six or 12-month plan, but then interest applies. 
On 26 November 2022, Monzo contacted Miss W as a payment had been missed on her flex 
account. Monzo explained that if the missed payment of £167.84 wasnt made before 3 
December 2022, then the remaining payments would be spread over a longer term but 
would no longer be interest free. 
Miss W replied and asked if she could make the payment on 5 December 2022, when she 
got paid. Monzo repeated that the arrears needed to be cleared before 3 December 2022 
and that if this didnt happen it would try to take the minimum payment after switching the 
flex payments to a longer-term plan. Monzo also advised that while there were arrears 
present, Miss W would not be able to use the flex account. 
On 2 December 2022, Miss W contacted Monzo explaining that she was trying to make 
payment but wasnt able to. Monzo said this could be due to an app bug. So, it advised 
deleting the app and reinstalling, before trying again. Miss W replied to say this didnt work 
and she needed to make an urgent payment. Monzo explained it would escalate the issue to 
its borrowing team who would be in touch within 24 hours. 
Throughout 3 December 2022, Miss W contacted Monzo to explain the payment was still 
failing and that she wanted to raise a complaint. As no response was received, Miss W 
chased Monzo on 5 December 2022. Monzo did respond on 5 December 2022 and said the 
payment couldnt be made as there were insufficient funds available. Miss W said she added 
money so there was enough, but the payment still failed. Miss W said she didnt want to go 
onto the minimum payment and wanted to be able to pay the £167.84. 
Miss Ws complaint was escalated and Monzo advised it would get its final response issued 
by 16 December 2022. On 13 December 2022, Miss W was able to make the payment of 
£167.84. In the final response Monzo explained that the payment Miss W tried to make failed 
as she didnt have sufficient funds. Therefore, Monzo said it hadnt made an error and the 
flex payments would now be extended to the longer-term interest-bearing instalment plan.  
Unhappy with this response, Miss W brought her complaint to our service. Within its 
submissions to our service, Monzo said it still believed it had made no errors in regard to 
Miss Ws difficulties in making payment. But Monzo acknowledged its response times 
couldve been better and so offered £50 for the delayed service.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that Miss W didnt have 
the available funds to make the payment before the due date. Therefore, as per the 
agreement, Monzo had acted fairly in moving the flex payment to the longer-term interest-
bearing plan. The investigator explained it was clear Miss W had to chase Monzo a few 
times for a response and the £50 offered by Monzo to acknowledge this was fair. Miss W 
didnt agree and said she felt as though her request wasnt important nor was it listened to. 
Therefore, the complaint needs to be investigated further and a better outcome provided. 
As Miss W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo explained that Miss Ws attempts to make the payment of £167.84 failed, as she 
didnt have sufficient available funds. Miss W has a £1,000 overdraft facility on her account.  
Ive reviewed Miss Ws statements from the time and can see that on 2 December 2022, she 
did credit her account with £167.84. This brought the overdrawn balance to £853.80. There 
are other credits and debits showing for 2 December 2022, but the lowest overdrawn 
balance for the day is given as £842.91. Therefore, Im satisfied that Monzo is correct when 
it says there werent sufficient funds in Miss Ws account at any time on 2 December 2022, 
for a payment of £167.84 to be made without her exceeding her overdraft limit. 
The situation is the same on 5 December 2022, when again there wasnt sufficient funds 
available to make the payment of £167.84, without the overdraft limit being exceeded. 
Sufficient funds were available from 9 December 2022, and I can see the payment was 
made to the flex account on 13 December 2022. 
It isnt disputed that the due date for Miss Ws payment of £167.84 was 26 November 2022. 
Regarding missed payments, Miss Ws agreement says: 
Well try and take your monthly payment at 6am on the payment due date. If we cant collect 
the monthly payment on the due date, well record the payment as missed. 
Well then give you 7 days to pay your Overpayment or Minimum Payment. If you choose to 
pay the Minimum Payment, you might lose any Promotions offered on your instalment plans. 
The agreement then goes on to say the following if youre still behind after seven days: 
If you havent made your monthly payments after 7 days, well try to take the Minimum 
Payment at the end of the 7 days. 
In order to do this, well switch your monthly payment to the Minimum Payment across all 
your instalment plans, which will increase the length of your instalment plans to the 
maximum period available.
If you were on a Promotion, youll start to owe interest at your standard rate. 
I appreciate Miss W was trying to pay the monthly payment of £167.84 within the seven 
days. She even transferred this amount to her account. However, as Ive explained above, 
she didnt have sufficient funds to make the payment until at least 9 December 2022. This 
was more than seven days after the original due date. Im therefore satisfied Monzo has 
acted fairly and in line with the terms of the agreement, by switching the instalment plan to 
the longer-term interest-bearing option. 
I can see that Miss W chased Monzo when it didnt contact her back. Given the deadlines for 
when she needed to make payment, I can understand why Miss W found the lack of 
response distressing. While Monzo did explain to Miss W someone would be in touch via the in-app chat within 24 hours and this didnt happen. It also told her to uninstall the app to try 
and fix the failed payments, when it couldve advised her then that she didnt have sufficient 
funds.
However, the failed payments werent due to any error caused by Monzo and given the 
delays in responding were a matter of days, Im satisfied Monzos offer to pay Miss W £50 
for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
If it hasnt already, Monzo should pay Miss W £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Ws complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman