DRN-1478466
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened 
Between January and March 2019 Sunny provided Mr A with four instalment loans. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date
Repaid  
Monthly
Instalments 
AmountHighest* 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 02/01/2019 27/04/2019 6 £300 £81
2 07/01/2019 27/05/2019 6 £300 £160
3 08/01/2019 27/04/2019 6 £200 £213
4 07/03/2019 29/05/2019 6 £200 £275
*highest repayment shows approximate combined amount payable where loans overlap
Mr A mainly feels that Sunny failed to do proper checks before providing him with loans he 
says were unaffordable for him. He told us this led to him becoming stuck in a payday loan 
cycle of spiralling debt.  
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr As complaint. She didnt think shed seen enough to say 
that loans 1-3 shouldnt have been lent  but she felt that by loan 4 Sunny shouldve seen 
that Mr A was likely having money problems. So our adjudicator said Sunny shouldnt have 
lent Mr A loan 4 and she set out what she thought Sunny should do to put things right for 
Mr A.  
Sunny didnt agree that loan 4 shouldnt have been lent to Mr A. Sunny mainly said that it 
allowed customers to take out up to four loans at any one time and looking at Mr As income 
and expenditure, paying for all the loans should still have been affordable for Mr A.
So the complaint comes to me to decide.What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And, in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr A. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month, including 
spending on other credit commitments. Sunny also recorded some information after it carried out checks on Mr As credit file. 
I agree with our adjudicator that looking at the information Mr A told Sunny about his income 
and outgoings and what Sunny had recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for 
Sunny to give him loans 1, 2 and 3. These loans all looked comfortably affordable for Mr A, 
based on what hed said to Sunny about his finances, even taking into account the combined 
monthly repayments. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks it did 
were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 4. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr As borrowing 
history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 4, Mr A already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Sunny  and now he was asking for further borrowing. This suggests to 
me that Mr A was finding it hard to get on top of his money problems and his financial 
difficulties were likely ongoing.  
So although the loan mightve appeared affordable, I think that Sunny shouldve realised that 
Mr As borrowing record painted a picture of someone struggling with debt. And despite what 
hed told Sunny about his finances, it showed that Mr A was having serious problems 
managing his money. 
Just because Sunny allowed customers to take out up to four loans at any one time doesnt 
mean that it acted fairly when it provided loan 4 to Mr A. I think Sunny shouldve seen that 
the indications were that loan 4 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr A. 
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 4.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mr A the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
 
D. Remove any adverse information Sunny has recorded on Mr As credit file for loan 4.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr As complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman