DRN-3400538
The complaint
Miss B and Mr S complain that Nationwide Building Society changed their address in its 
system to an incorrect address. They ask that Nationwide acknowledges its systems arent 
fit for purpose and refunds a mortgage product fee of about £1,500 as compensation for the 
upset caused.
What happened
Miss B and Mr S took out a mortgage with Nationwide in mid-2021. A few days later Miss B 
received an email with an incorrect postcode used as a reference. Miss B logged into her 
online account and saw her postcode had been changed. Miss B says she was worried her 
information was sent to the wrong address.
Miss B contacted Nationwide about this in June 2021. She says she didnt receive a final 
response letter until early September 2021. Miss B is also unhappy that Nationwide said it 
had already paid compensation to Mr S, the joint mortgage account holder. She says this 
was paid to Mr S as compensation for a separate complaint.
Our investigator said Nationwide wrote to both Miss B and Mr S in July 2021 in relation to 
the complaint about the joint mortgage account. Nationwide said no letters relating to the 
mortgage account or any of Miss Bs or Mr Ss other accounts were sent to an incorrect 
address. It apologised and paid £150 compensation. Our investigator said this was fair.
Miss B and Mr S didnt agree. Mr S said they raised two separate complaints about their 
separate accounts. He said Miss B has other products with Nationwide and it wasnt fair for 
Miss Bs more serious concerns to be swept away by settling his complaint. Mr S said 
Nationwide led them to believe it was dealing with their complaints separately when he 
accepted the compensation it offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide accepts it made errors here. It says that when a mortgage completes the new 
address details filter through its systems. Somehow, an incorrect postcode filtered through to 
Mr S and Miss Bs accounts when their mortgage completed in June 2021.
Miss B became aware of this on 25 June 2021 when she received an email with an incorrect 
postcode. She logged into online banking with Nationwide and corrected her address. She 
also contacted Nationwide about the issue and was told it was sorted out. Mr S found out his 
address in Nationwides records was also wrong in late June 2021 when he tried to register 
for online banking.
Nationwide made further errors after Miss B contacted it. First, it should have asked Miss B 
to tell Mr S to get in contact to correct his address. Then when Mr S did get in contact it told 
him to register for online banking using the incorrect postcode and change this later. This 
resulted in a letter related to setting up online banking being sent to the wrong address. 
Nationwide says the content of the letter means the risk of anyone using it to access Mr Ss 
account is small. 
Miss B and Mr S each raised complaints. However, Nationwide dealt with their complaints 
together.
Nationwides final response letter dated 13 July 2021 was addressed to both Miss B and 
Mr S. The letter referred to Miss B contacting Nationwide about the incorrect postcode on 25 
June 2021. In the letter Nationwide referred to the stress and inconvenience this has 
caused you both and offered £150 compensation.
Nationwide sent a second final response letter on 26 August 2021. This was also addressed 
to both Miss B and Mr S. It said it had already responded to their complaint and offered them 
compensation, which it considered to be fair. The letter said that no letters had been sent to 
the incorrect address for any of their accounts with Nationwide.
I dont think it was unfair for Nationwide to deal with this as a joint complaint, given that the 
problem seems to have been triggered by Mr S and Miss B taking out a joint mortgage. And, 
based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Nationwide misled Miss B and Mr S about how it 
was dealing with their complaints. I think its clear that the July 2021 final response letter was 
addressed to both of them and that the compensation was offered to both of them.
Notwithstanding that Nationwide dealt with Miss B and Mr Ss complaints together it still had 
to consider how they were affected by its error when offering compensation.
Mr S says Miss Bs concerns are more serious than his as she had more products with 
Nationwide. While I understand the point he makes, I need to take into account that Miss B 
was told by Nationwide thered been no fraudulent activity on her account and that her 
address was correct very soon after becoming aware of the incorrect postcode. Miss Bs 
postcode was incorrect in Nationwides records for only a few days. Nationwide said no 
letters relating to Miss Bs accounts were sent to the wrong address.
Theres no evidence that Miss B or Mr S suffered a financial loss. No doubt though this 
matter did cause Miss B and Mrs S worry and inconvenience, and I think its right that 
Nationwide paid compensation. Miss B had to log into online banking and correct her 
address. She called Nationwide to check her account hadnt been accessed or misused by a 
third party. This must have been inconvenient and worrying, even if this was for only a short 
time. The incorrect postcode caused Mr S problems setting up online banking, which must 
have been frustrating and inconvenient. In the circumstances, I think £150 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the inconvenience and upset caused.
Miss B and Mr S ask that Nationwide refunds the product fee they paid (about £1,500). I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to do this. Mr S and Miss B agreed to pay the 
fee to secure a preferential interest rate. I dont think the error made by Nationwide had a 
sufficiently serious impact on Mr S and Miss B to make it fair to require it to refund this fee or 
pay further compensation.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the steps taken and 
compensation paid by Nationwide Building Society is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman