DRN-4257842
The complaint
Mr H complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited renewed his car insurance policy 
and then charged him for the time on risk and for cancelling it.  
What happened
Mr H took out a car insurance policy with Admiral which started on 6 September 2020 and 
which renewed on 6 September 2021 and then again on 6 September 2022. As Admiral was 
unable to collect the payment for the renewal in 2022 it contacted Mr H to let him know via 
letter and e-mail. Admiral said if the premium wasnt paid it would cancel the policy. 
The day the policy was due to cancel Mr H called Admiral to discuss the renewal price. As 
the policy had already renewed Admiral said it wasnt able to amend the price and if the 
premium wasnt paid then the policy would cancel that evening and a cancellation charge 
would be applied. Mr H said the policy was too expensive and so he would let it cancel. Mr H 
then took out another policy with a different insurer and complained to Admiral. He said he 
hadnt agreed for the policy to automatically renew and didnt think Admiral had acted fairly 
by doing so. 
Admiral reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had issued renewal documents 
to Mr H before the policy renewed and so didnt think it had done anything wrong. As the 
policy had then been cancelled due to non-payment Admiral said Mr H owed it for the time 
on risk and cancelling the policy. It said as this hadnt been paid the debt had been passed 
to a debt recovery company. Mr H didnt agree and referred his complaint here, he said he 
only asked for a 12-month policy and Admiral should never have renewed it. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found 
that Admiral had sent out the renewal reminder as it should and also sent notifications of the 
cancellation. As Mr A hadnt arranged other insurance for his car until after the policy with 
Admiral was cancelled, our investigator thought it was fair for Admiral to charge for its time 
on risk. Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As Mr H didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say: 
Unless you have selected otherwise, we will automatically renew your 
policy on its renewal date and apply for your renewal premium from the 
payment details you have already provided.
The terms go onto say the insured can opt out of this by letting Admiral know either by phone 
or online. I understand Mr H says he let Admiral know he didnt want to renew when the 
policy started in 2021. Unfortunately, Admiral is unable to provide a copy of this call due to it 
being made in 2021 and it not keeping copies which go back that far. Admiral had Mr Hs 
policy set to auto renew, so even if he had asked for it to not auto renew Im not persuaded 
Admiral should do anything different in relation to the 2022 renewal as Mr H didnt get in 
contact until after the policy had renewed.  
Admiral has provided the renewal documents issued to Mr H before the renewal date which 
ask him to review the details and confirm if anything has changed. Its also provided the 
notification which was sent when payment couldnt be taken on the day the policy started and 
the seven-day notice of cancellation as no payment was received.
Ive also listened to the call made on 27 September 2022, when Mr H called to query his 
renewal and Admiral let Mr H know his renewal e-mail was sent on 17 August 2022 and that 
it showed as being delivered.  Admiral also let Mr H know hed been sent letters and e-mails 
following his policy renewal. Mr H acknowledged receiving one of these, which appears to be 
the last letter Admiral sent letting him know his policy would cancel. During the call Mr H 
discusses his policy and as Admiral couldnt reduce the price enough for Mr H, he said he 
would let the policy cancel to which Admiral confirm there would likely be a cancellation fee 
of £55 plus a charge for time on cover. Mr H responds by saying okay. As this is in line with 
the policys terms and conditions, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Admiral to charge 
it. 
Mr H has provided a new insurance certificate for a different policy however this is dated 
around 3 weeks after his policy with Admiral renewed. I understand Mr H isnt happy Admiral 
renewed his policy with them. But Im not going to tell Admiral to do anything different. I say 
this as its clear Mr H needed to insure his car and didnt take out another policy until several 
weeks after the policy with Admiral renewed. It was then Mr Hs choice to not continue with 
the policy with Admiral and go elsewhere. Im therefore not persuaded Admiral acted unfairly 
by renewing his policy, charging for time on risk and charging a cancellation fee for 
cancelling it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman