DRN-3135177
The complaint
Mr P makes a number of complaints against JAJA FINANCE LTD following a request for a 
paper account statements.
What happened
Mr P says he asked JAJA for paper account statements in 2020 as he was unable to view 
online statements. He says he wished to review the statements and audit them before 
making a required payment. Mr P says he received his statement in late December 2020 
and noted that expected refunds didnt appear on his statement for about £155 and £500. He 
says he spoke to JAJA and was told the refunds had been received in November 2020. Mr P 
says matters escalated and resulted in late payment charges, interest and adverse 
information registered on his credit file. He would like that adverse information removed and 
compensation for what took place.
JAJA says the refund was paid to Mr Ps old credit card and was credited to his account in 
March 2021. It has apologised for parts of the complaint and offered £50 compensation but 
says what took place doesnt justify Mr P refusing to make require payments. JAJA has said 
it will remove all charges and interest as well as remove adverse information from Mr Ps 
credit file to June 2021.
Mr P had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
agreed that the refund should have been applied to Mr Ps account sooner but that didnt 
justify Mr P refusing to make required payments as the refunds were significantly less than 
the account balance at the time over £1,000.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and in summary says the problem was caused by JAJA not 
refunding the money and overinflating the amount he owed whilst not providing statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a similar overall view as the investigator and for similar 
reasons.
I appreciate that Mr P was expecting a refund on his credit card account in November 2020, 
but I can also see that there was an outstanding balance considerably more than that refund 
or refunds. I dont think it clear why Mr P would conclude that the account statement was 
inaccurate or why he withheld payment in these circumstances as he would have known, 
even if approximate terms, how much he owed and that he owed a balance.
Im satisfied that JAJA received the refund in November 2020, but it was credited to Mr Ps 
old account card. I dont think it should have taken until March 2021 to credit Mr Ps account 
and I also think JAJA ought to have been able to credit the money earlier and explain to Mr 
P when he spoke to it where his money was. But I also think that Mr Ps reaction to the 
situation was unreasonable and disproportionate and have explained that I think he ought to 
have made his required payments even if the refund issue hadnt been sorted out. In those 
circumstances I dont think JAJA made a mistake by charging late payment fees, interest 
and reporting adverse information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
I can see that JAJA has fairly agreed to remove the adverse information and refund charges 
and interest. I dont think it was obliged to do so and no doubt Mr P will decide if he wishes 
to repay the debt if he has not done so already as clearly that position may change in the 
future.
Overall, I accept that JAJA didnt deal with parts of this complaint as it should. But Im 
satisfied JAJA has offered a fair and reasonable compensation amount and more importantly 
fairly agreed to refund charges, interest and remove adverse information. I find this brings an 
end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do and of course its up to Mr P 
how he now proceeds with this issue. I make clear to Mr P that we are not an auditing 
service and its not our role to check if the account statements have been calculated 
correctly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman