DRN-3560650
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) 
unfairly turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a points-based timeshare from a supplier, who Ill call X, in August 
2007. Mr and Mrs B paid for this timeshare by trading in an existing timeshare for 
£15,117 and taking a loan with GE Money for £5,638. The loan was due to be repaid 
over 15 years. Mr and Mrs Bs representatives have confirmed that, although Mr and 
Mrs B made earlier points-based timeshare purchases, their claim only relates to the 
August 2007 purchase. This decision will therefore not consider any earlier purchases.
Mr and Mrs B say that, when they purchased the points-based timeshare, they were 
told a number of things that they say turned out to be untrue. And so, if it wasnt for 
these misrepresentations, Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have purchased the 
points-based timeshare.
They say X told them that the maintenance fees would only increase in line with inflation, 
however the increases were higher than that. Mr and Mrs B say they were told there 
would be more choice of holidays available if they upgraded their membership and that 
they could sell their points in the future if they chose to. However, after they upgraded 
they found it was difficult to book, as there was still limited availability. And they say there 
was no secondary market for selling timeshare points so they couldnt easily resell them 
as they were told. They therefore felt they had no way to exit the timeshare and werent 
aware they could do so by giving notice. In addition, they found non-members had paid 
the same or less than their membership fees to stay at the same resorts. Mr and Mrs B 
also say that X pressured them to purchase further points during the sales presentation. 
And Mr and Mrs B argued that they couldnt afford to repay the loan. They therefore 
needed to refinance it after they returned home.
In August 2019 Mr and Mrs B, using a representative, complained to GE Money. GE 
Money responded to say the complaint was raised too late under the FCAs Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP). (It has since consented to this service considering Mr and Mrs 
Bs complaint in respect of the claims.) In addition, it said that some of the specific 
concerns raised involve the exchange of information at the time of the sale and as such 
these points should be directed to X not GE Money because it wasnt present at the sale.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They concluded that the claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been 
brought too late under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), so they didnt think GE Money 
needed to consider the substance of the claims. In relation to Mr and Mrs B and their 
representatives argument that the loan wasnt affordable, the investigator concluded that, 
even if GE Money hadnt done everything it should have when agreeing to lend, theyve 
not been provided with anything to show the loan was unaffordable. So, the investigator 
didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs B and their representatives disagreed with the assessment and made a 
number of points in response. They argued that the limitation period can be postponed 
under s32 LA which applies in cases of fraud, deliberate concealment, or mistake. They 
argue that, whilst Mr and Mrs B were aware they had a legitimate grievance, they werent 
aware they had an actionable claim. They say Mr and Mrs B didnt know the contract 
lasting in perpetuity was contrary to Spanish law and that X deliberately concealed from 
them the fact that they could exit their membership by giving 28 days notice. They have 
also cited a court case they wish to rely on.
As this complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was referred to me for a decision. I 
issued a provisional decision in May 2022 which forms part of this decision. My provisional 
decision said the following:
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs B, and their representatives say that X misrepresented to them the 
nature and benefits of the timeshare agreement. So, they say GE Money is jointly 
liable under s.75 CCA. But if the claim was brought outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA, GE Money would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to 
answering the claim. I should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any 
right that Mr and Mrs B may have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - 
thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if GE Money has 
acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Bs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would ordinarily be brought under 
s.2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. And it was held in Laws v. The Society of 
Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered 
by s.2 of the LA or an action brought for a sum recoverable by statute under s.9 of the 
LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a 
claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued. As Mr and Mrs B made a 
like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA, its covered by s.9 of the LA  which 
means they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make 
their claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything 
needed to make a legal claim occurred. And in Mr and Mrs Bs case, thats when they 
could have brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier, X, or a like 
claim against GE Money. So, I think that was the date they entered into the 
agreement to buy the timeshare (i.e. in August 2007) as this is when they say they 
entered into the agreement based on the misrepresentations by X. They say that, 
had the misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have bought the 
timeshares. And it was on those days that they suffered a loss, as they took out the 
loan with GE Money to part fund the purchase.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in August 2007, so Mr 
and Mrs B had six years from then to bring a claim. But as Mr and Mrs B, via their 
representative, didnt try to contact GE Money about their claim until August 2019, I 
think GE Money acted fairly by turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B CCA in 
connection with a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the 
lender and the creditor arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has 
the power to make such a determination, but I think this could be relevant law 
and so I have taken it into account.Section140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of 
that Act sets out which credit agreements s.140A CCA applies to. In short, if a credit 
agreement ended before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought 
in respect of that credit agreement. As explained above, Mr and Mrs B took out their 
loan in August 2007 and went on to refinance it as they say they couldnt afford the 
repayments. However, theyve not said when this took place and GE Money has no 
records of when the loan was repaid.
So, in the event that the loan was still running on 6 April 2008, Ive gone on to 
consider whether a claim under s.140A CCA wouldve been made in time and I dont 
think it would have.
The LA would also apply to a claim under s.140A CCA so Ive considered this. It was 
held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that time for limitation purposes for a 
s.140A CCA claim ran from the date that the credit agreement ended (if it was not 
still running at the time the claim was made.) As with an action under s.75 CCA, the 
limitation period is six years, so Mr and Mrs B would have had to bring an action 
within six years of when the loan was repaid.
As Ive explained above, its not clear when this loan was repaid. However, GE 
Money say the loan mustve been closed some time ago because it cant trace the 
loan. I dont think this is unreasonable given there is no requirement for GE Money 
to keep records indefinitely. Mr and Mrs B and their representative have accepted 
that the relationship arising out of this credit agreement may well have ended more 
than six years after raising the claim. And this is consistent with Mr and Mrs Bs 
testimony that they couldnt afford the loan and needed to refinance it after they 
returned home. So, taking everything into consideration, I think its likely the loan 
ended more than six years before Mr and Mrs B raised their claim. And for that 
reason, in the event that s.140A CCA applies to the relevant credit agreement, I 
think Mr and Mrs B raised this claim too late.
Section 32 LA
Mr and Mrs B and their representative argue that the limitation period should be 
extended under s.32 LA. They say that, whilst Mr and Mrs B knew they had a 
legitimate grievance, they werent aware until more recently that they had an 
actionable claim. Mr and Mrs B werent aware the contract was open-ended which 
they say was illegal under Spanish law and they werent aware they could exit their 
membership by giving 28 days notice as that was also concealed from them.
Ive thought about everything which has been argued, including the court judgment Ive 
been referred to, but I dont agree with the arguments being made. Section 32 LA 
essentially extends the limitation period when theres fraud, concealment or mistake to 
either the point the claimant made their discovery or would have made their discovery if 
theyd exercised reasonable diligence. However, it doesnt draw the same distinction 
Mr and Mrs B and their representative are inviting me to conclude between the 
discovery of a legitimate grievance and discovery of an actionable claim.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs B and their representative argue that the duration of the 
contract breaches Spanish law. However, whether or not this is the case is not the 
issue here. From our knowledge of these types of points-based agreements with 
X, the contracts are governed by English law. Ive not been presented with any 
arguments or reasons why the duration of the contract would be unlawful under 
English law. So, I dont think there is evidence to suggest why s.32 would help 
them with their claim.For largely the same reasons I also dont think being unaware they could exit the 
contract by giving 28 days notice changes the position on the claims being raised 
too late. I havent been provided with any evidence that this was concealed from Mr 
and Mrs S and how that would mean they wouldnt have been aware they could have 
made the claims they did earlier. And whilst theyve cited a case they wish to rely on 
in which the application of s.32 LA extended time under the LA, they havent 
explained (with reference to the facts of the case or arguments raised) how they feel 
this supports their arguments.
So, I dont think the arguments raised in relation to s.32 persuade me that this claim 
was raised in time and Ive not seen any other reason why the limitation period should 
be extended in this case. As a result, it follows that I dont think the s.75 CCA claim 
was raised in time and should 140A CCA apply to the relevant credit agreement, I also 
dont think that claim was raised in time either.
Affordability of the loan
Under the rules that govern the ombudsman service (set out in the FCA Handbook 
under DISP) a complaint needs to be raised within six years of the event being 
complained about. Or, if later, three years from when the complainant (in this case Mr 
and Mrs B) knew or ought reasonably to know they had reason to complain. This is set 
out in DISP 2.8.2. There are exceptions to this which include circumstances where the 
delay in complaining was caused by exceptional circumstances or if the respondent (in 
this case GE Money) consent to our service considering the complaint. In this case, GE 
Money hasnt consented to our service considering this aspect of Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint.
The event being complained about is GE Money granting the loan in August 2007 
which Mr and Mrs B say they couldnt afford to repay. Using a representative, Mr and 
Mrs B didnt raise their complaint until August 2019 which was more than six years 
after the loan was given. I therefore need to consider if Mr and Mrs B knew or should 
have known they had reason to complain earlier than they did. Whilst I think Mr and 
Mrs B wouldve known they had problems repaying the loan  as they say they went 
on to refinance it  I havent seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs B were aware more 
than three years before they raised the complaint that GE Money had done something 
wrong in agreeing the loan. So I currently think Mr and Mrs B raised this aspect of their 
complaint in time for our service to consider it and Ive gone on to consider it below.
I dont know what steps were taken by GE Money to make sure Mr and Mrs B could 
afford to repay their loan. Its therefore possible that GE Money didnt undertake a 
sound and proper credit assessment prior to agreeing the loan. However, to uphold this 
complaint on the basis that the lending in question was unaffordable, I have to be 
satisfied that was actually the case and that Mr and Mrs B lost out as a result. Mr and 
Mrs B and their representative havent provided any detailed information about Mr and 
Mrs Bs financial circumstances at the relevant time or why they feel Mr and Mrs B 
couldnt afford to repay the borrowing, aside from saying they went on to refinance the 
loan. So, I dont have sufficient information to uphold this aspect of their complaint, even 
if I did think the right checks hadnt been done.
I asked both parties to provide me with anything further before I reached a final decision. In 
response, Mr and Mrs B via their representatives reiterated the relevant law for a s.75 CCA 
claim and a s140A claim. They argued several points as to why they feel the courts would 
conclude there was an unfair relationship including problems with information disclosure, the 
annual maintenance fees and exiting the associated timeshare contract. In addition, they 
argued the problems with information disclosure resulted in their clients not being able to 
make an informed decision as set out in the timeshare regulations. However, they made no additional representations in response to my conclusions relating to the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA).  
GE Money also provided additional points in response. It set out how it would go about 
agreeing a loan including the checks it would complete and the information it would disclose 
to a customer. It therefore argued it did complete a sound and proper credit assessment. GE 
Money also argued that as Mr and Mrs B have said the loan was consolidated its possible it 
was cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period and this could be why it cant trace the 
loan. 
In response to GE Moneys comments I provided information from Mr and Mrs B about the 
loan. This included a letter from GE Money to Mr and Mrs B dated 23 August 2007 (more 
than 14 days after the loan agreement is dated). This letter details that the loan was 
accepted and an account opened. It also provides details of their repayment obligations 
which were due to begin in November 2007. In addition, there is a further letter dated 8 
October 2007 from GE Money to Mr and Mrs B reminding them that their monthly 
repayments are due to start in the following month. So I was satisfied that the loan wasnt 
cancelled within the 14 day cooling off period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disputed my provisional findings regarding the LA, I see no reason to 
depart from them. So it follows that I think both the s.75 CCA claim and the s140A claim 
were raised outside the relevant time frames set out in the Act and as such were raised too 
late. I therefore cant say GE Money acted unfairly in declining these claims. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs representatives have made a number of points about why they 
feel there was an unfair relationship (under s140A CCA). However, even if I thought it was 
likely that the courts would conclude they had grounds for a successful s.140A CCA claim, 
the complaint was raised too late and outside the relevant timeframes in the LA. This gives 
GE Money a complete defence to this claim (and the s.75 CCA claim) so Im not going to 
consider these points further. 
In response to GE Moneys claim that it completed sound and proper checks, GE Money 
hasnt provided evidence that these checks were completed in Mr and Mrs Bs case or 
provided details of what these checks revealed about their circumstances. I therefore cant 
conclude that GE Money completed sound and proper assessment of Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances before agreeing to lend. However, as detailed in my provisional decision, Mr 
and Mrs B havent provided any detailed information to demonstrate their circumstances at 
the time or why they couldnt afford to repay the loan. So I cant conclude Mr and Mrs B were 
given a loan they couldnt afford or uphold this aspect of their complaint as theyve provided 
very limited information to support their argument. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
