DRN-2871685
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs B and Mr H took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2002 and bought the PPI at around the 
same time. 
The PPI was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan
(TMPP). A TMPP could be made up of three different elements  a PPI policy, life cover and
critical illness cover.
This PPI policy was in Mr Hs name only. Both he and Mrs B also took life and critical illness 
cover. But theyve only complained to us about the PPI, so thats what Ive looked at in this 
decision. 
Mr H says he was under the impression you had to have PPI or banks wouldnt lend to you. 
He says he and Mrs B werent asked about their savings or informed they could get cheaper 
insurance elsewhere. And hes concerned about the commission he and Mrs B paid on the 
policy.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs B and Mr Hs complaint didnt uphold it. They disagree 
and so their complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs B and Mr Hs complaint. I know this will
disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give will help them to understand why
Ive reached this conclusion.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mrs B and Mr H they had a choice about PPI and get their
agreement to it. Because the sale was so long ago, Halifax doesnt have any of                 
Mrs B and Mr Hs PPI paperwork, which I dont think is unusual or surprising. Mr H says he 
thought he and Mrs B had to have PPI to get their mortgage. But from what we know of how 
Halifax sold these policies around this time and the documents weve seen in the past, I 
think its likely the paperwork Mrs B and Mr H wouldve seen wouldve made it clear enough 
that the PPI was optional and they didnt have to have it to get the mortgage.
 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs B and Mr H, so it needed to make sure it was 
right for them. I dont know what steps Halifax took to do this but, from what Ive seen of the 
policy terms Halifax has given us and what Mrs B and Mr H say of their circumstances at the 
time, I think it was suitable. I say this because:
I havent seen anything to make me think Mr H wasnt eligible for the policy. Its 
possible Halifax didnt advise him and Mrs B of the main policy exclusions and 
limitations which couldve made it more difficult for someone to make a successful 
claim. But I havent seen anything to make me think its likely Mr H wouldve been 
affected by any of these. So I think he couldve claimed the full policy benefit if hed 
needed to.
I think the PPI gave Mrs B and Mr H useful protection. They say Mr H didnt get any 
sick pay from his work and Mrs B wasnt working at the time. They also say they had 
some savings and jewellery they couldve used/sold if things got difficult. 
But the PPI couldve helped cover Mrs B and Mr Hs mortgage repayments for up to 
two years if Mr H was off work because of sickness or an accident or if he lost his 
job. It would also have meant Mrs B and Mr H didnt have to rely on their savings to 
pay the mortgage, or sell Mrs Bs jewellery. A mortgage is a long-term and significant 
financial commitment, and your home is at risk if you fall behind on your repayments. 
So I think having PPI wouldve given Mrs B and Mr H the peace of mind that thered 
be help with their mortgage for some time if things got difficult.
I dont know what Halifax said to Mrs B and Mr H about the cost of the policy. But it 
looks as if they could afford it, so I dont think its cost made it unsuitable for them. 
And they couldve cancelled it without penalty at any time if theyd decided they no 
longer needed it.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mrs B and Mr H, Halifax also had to give them
enough clear information about it for them to be able to make an informed choice about 
whether to buy it. Halifax hasnt said much about what it told Mrs B and Mr H and, as Ive 
mentioned, theres no PPI paperwork. But, as Ive also said, I think its likely they chose to 
buy the PPI and it was right for them. So I think clearer information would only have
confirmed this to them. I dont think its likely it wouldve stopped them buying the cover.
Mr H has said he and Mrs B werent told they could get cheaper insurance elsewhere. But 
Halifax wasnt under a duty at the time to give them this sort of information.
Mr H is also concerned about the commission he and Mrs B paid on the PPI policy. He says 
he doesnt know how much it was and it shows banks were under pressure to make PPI 
sales. He says this in light of a Supreme Court judgement on the non-disclosure of 
commission where PPI was sold.
By way of background, in 2017, following that judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Halifax has given us information that shows Mrs B and Mr Hs mortgage was taken out on 5 
June 2002 and ended on 8 June 2005. So based on this, I dont think the unfair relationship 
provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply to Mrs B 
and Mr Hs complaint.
So Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs B and Mr H paid for the PPI 
they had with their mortgage. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman