DRN-1865388
 
The complaint
Ms B complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with her and her account following 
it being made dormant.
What happened
Ms B says her Barclays account had a balance of over £11,690 that was to be used for an 
emergency. She says in November 2019 she needed the money but couldn't access the 
account. Ms B says she spoke to Barclays and it gave her different reasons for what may 
have happened including the possibility she had been the victim of fraud. She says she 
made a number of calls to Barclays about the problem and attended a branch on three 
occasions before finding out the account had been made dormant. Ms B says Barclays has 
paid her £200 compensation. But that isn't enough for what's taken place and for the anxiety 
she was caused, and for her time. She disputes receiving Barclays letter telling her the 
account would be made dormant.
Barclays says it closed the account in October 2019 in line with account terms and 
conditions about dormant accounts. It accepts there were problems in setting up a new 
account and for how it dealt with part of the complaint and has apologised and paid £200 
compensation. It says it sent two letters to Ms B in July 2019 telling her the account would 
close.
Ms B brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Barclays had dealt fairly with 
the complaint and paid a fair and reasonable level of compensation. The investigator thought 
Barclays was entitled to make the account dormant and had told Ms B it was doing so. The 
investigator thought Barclays had acted in line with account terms and conditions and 
couldn't hold it responsible for Ms B not receiving the dormancy letter. And also thought 
Barclays had sorted matters out in line with its dormancy policy timescales.
Ms B doesn't accept that view and in summary questions why Barclays sent two letters 
within a day of each other and believes there may have been a systems error. And says 
Barclays actions had a significant impact on her and her family. She would like further 
compensation
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Barclays has dealt fairly with this complaint. I appreciate Ms B will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about what's taken 
place.
There is no real dispute here that Barclays is entitled to make an account dormant in these 
circumstances as the account hadn't been used in a significant period of time. I can see that 
Barclays sent two letters to Ms B within a day of each other that I think were correctly addressed telling her the account would close later that year. I appreciate that Ms B says 
she didn't receive the letters and questions why two were sent. I can't answer that question 
but I'm satisfied having looked at the letters and Barclays records, that the letters were sent. 
Ms B appreciates that Barclays isn't responsible for the safe delivery of mail, and so I can't 
fairly hold it responsible for Ms B not receiving it. And I make clear that I don't hold Ms B 
responsible for not receiving mail as she suggests the investigator has.
So I'm satisfied Barclays followed the account terms and conditions by closing the account 
but I accept that Ms B then spent some time trying to find out what had happened to her 
money. I have no doubt she was worried and I don't doubt she was told that she may have 
been the victim of fraud. I also appreciate Ms B attended a branch on three occasions. But 
I'm satisfied that Barclays has fairly apologised for how it dealt with parts of this complaint 
and has paid what I think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. I'm satisfied that 
compensation award fairly reflects the time Ms B spent trying to sort matters out but also 
takes into account that Ms B didn't suffer any financial loss. And that Barclays was able to 
tell her what had happened to her money within a relatively short period of time.
I appreciate Ms B needed the money urgently but I have looked at Barclays dormant account 
policy and can see that it advises customers that it may take up to 12 weeks for money to be 
returned to a customer. In this case I'm satisfied Ms B didn't wait that long and think that as a 
result of the account being made dormant that she wouldn't have been able to have 
accessed her money when she needed it in any event. And that would have been the 
position even if she had been told straight away what had happened.
Overall I'm satisfied that Barclays has dealt fairly with this complaint and paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation. I appreciate Ms B will have unanswered questions 
about why two letters were sent and if Barclays had any system errors at the time. We are 
not Barclays regulator and so that is not something I can investigate or comment on. I have 
made clear that I think on balance the letters were sent and in any event this was an account 
not used in many years. In those circumstances Ms B ought to have been aware there was a 
risk it would be made dormant.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman