DRN-2953805
The complaint
Mr S and Miss B are unhappy with their home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in respect 
of a claim they made to it in 2016 after a flood. 
What happened
There was a flood at Mr S and Miss Bs property in January 2016. They had to move out of 
home but returned in the summer of that year. But they werent happy about a number of 
issues, including that cracks had appeared internally upstairs and that the finish of the 
external brickwork looked poor. They made a complaint to UKI. UKI issued its final response 
on that complaint in December 2016.
Around this time UKIs loss adjuster said the snagging issues at the property would be dealt 
with and resolved likely by early January 2017. In January the timeline changed to February. 
Miss B then queried with UKI as to what was happening in respect of cracking identified 
upstairs in the property. UKI said it would send a surveyor to complete an assessment. 
Miss B chased UKI in late March and UKI arranged an urgent appointment for 4 April 2017. 
The result of that was that the surveyor felt the cracking was unrelated to the loss and UKIs 
repairs. However, further snagging issues were identified. 
Following this visit some snagging works were completed. However, in May 2017, when 
Mr S and Miss B raised further issues of concern, UKIs contractors said they didnt want to 
be involved in completing further work. During an assessment visit with the loss adjuster in 
July 2017 a definitive list of snagging issues was drawn up and agreed, including re-pointing 
of external brickwork. However, UKI said it didnt have any contractors who could complete 
the work, so asked Mr S and Miss B to provide a quotation. Whilst UKI then offered to do the 
work, Mr S and Miss B, having dealt with that contractor before, preferred to continue with 
finding a quote of their own. They presented this to UKI in May 2018, totalling over £9,700. 
The loss adjuster felt it was excessive and told UKI the outstanding repairs would cost 
around £2,000. UKI then offered Mr S and Miss B a total of £4,500 in settlement.
When Mr S and Miss B were told of this they were unhappy and set out their concerns in an 
email to UKI in July 2018. In March 2019 Mr S chased UKI for an update  it transpired that 
he and UKI had sent emails to each other during 2018 which the other had not received. In 
May 2019, UKI called Mr S and left him a voicemail stating it was going to close the claim.
In June 2019, with the property still not fully reinstated, there was a leak from a pipe beneath 
the floor. Mr S and Miss B believed this was due to the previous and incomplete repairs. The 
leak was dealt with by the home emergency insurer but UKI paid Mr S and Miss B a 
disturbance allowance to remain in the property whilst they were without water. They didnt 
think this was enough. 
Following further contact UKI appointed a new loss adjuster; they attended the property and 
concluded the insured work had been done to a poor standard. The new adjuster viewed a 
new quote Mr S and Miss B had obtained in August 2019 and felt it was reasonable (less, it 
said, £150 for installing a sump pump which was felt to not be needed as one was already in 
place). In September 2019 UKI made payments to Mr S and Miss B for a disturbance 
allowance as well as cost insured in respect of laundry and mileage. In October 2019 UKI 
paid Mr S and Miss B £9,855.36, being their quoted cost for repair, less the £150 for the 
sump pump, and net of VAT. It said it would pay the VAT (totalling £1,600.94) once a VAT 
invoice was received.
When Mr S and Miss B complained to this service, UKI, based on the fact of the 2016 final 
response letter, said theyd complained out of time (they should have come to us in the first 
half of 2017). Our investigator noted that but said we could look at what had happened after 
the 2016 final response letter. When he did so, Mr S and Miss B were unhappy with his 
findings. They said they couldnt understand how three or four years was an acceptable 
timeframe for resolution. They said the disturbance allowance wasnt enough and all of their 
clothes now needed cleaning as they were damp. Mr S and Miss B said, given everything 
theyd been through and the time theyd put in to resolving everything, UKI should pay in 
excess of £3,000 compensation. The complaint was put into the queue for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
Whilst it was waiting to be allocated it was reviewed by another investigator. She felt UKI 
had been responsible for a two-month delay in February  April 2017. But otherwise she felt 
it had handled the claim reasonably and made sufficient payments to Mr S and Miss B. She 
didnt think it had been shown that UKI was responsible for the 2019 leak. She said UKI 
should pay Mr S and Miss B £100 compensation. UKI accepted the findings, Mr S and 
Miss B asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
   
Their complaint came to me and I felt that, during 2017 and through into 2019, UKI hadnt 
handled things well. I also felt it had unfairly deducted an amount from the claim settlement. 
I thought it should pay £750 compensation and reimburse the deducted sum of £150, plus 
interest. Because my view was different to that of our investigator I issued a provisional 
decision, my findings from which were:
Claim handling and delay
I think UKI failed Mr S and Miss B. As 2017 began UKI knew there were repairs outstanding 
at Mr S and Miss Bs property. And some of that work remained outstanding and was subject 
to the settlement UKI finally paid to Mr S and Miss B in October 2019; nearly three years 
later. And whilst UKI already knew in January 2017 about cracking upstairs, a surveyor 
wasnt sent to assess this until April 2017. Whilst work to resolve snagging seemed to 
continue and further issues were raised, I think the loss adjuster should have been doing 
more in the early months of 2017 to manage the claim and make sure all identified issues 
were being resolved. I think if this had been managed properly at that time, for Mr S and 
Miss B, the claim and all works could have been finalised well before the end of 2017.
I accept that UKI did try to get things back on track in late 2017 with the offer of new 
contractors, and it was Mr S and Mis Bs choice to try and find their own instead. But I think 
its fair to say the claim only came to that position because UKI didnt manage it well enough 
in early 2017. And when Mr S and Miss B did choose this route for the outstanding work UKI 
shouldnt have left things go on so long, such that it was May 2018 before a quote was finally 
received. It knew what work was needed so I think it could have costed that and made an 
offer of settlement earlier. Then, following contact in July 2018, UKI again failed to keep the 
claim moving forwards. Ultimately I see that when the new loss adjuster was appointed in 
2019 it was established that significant poor work had been done and substantial snagging work remained outstanding. The updated quote UKI eventually settled on was effectively the 
one its original adjuster had said was excessive but with some updates for a little extra work 
and a general increase in the cost of work. So UKIs original loss adjuster (who had been 
party to the poor works) had been wrong and UKIs May 2018 offer of settlement was unfair 
and unreasonable. Overall I think UKI should pay Mr S and Miss B £750 by way of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused them.
UKI has said to us that within the total of the scope it paid for, was work to repair the upstairs 
cracking. It says it paid this as a goodwill gesture as it never accepted this was part of the 
insured work. UKI seems to think this should be seen as it providing compensation to Mr S 
and Miss B. I mention it here as I expect it will raise this as a reason to not pay the 
compensation I am recommending. I think its fair to say that UKI didnt ever accept it was 
liable for the crack repairs. But I also think its fair to say its liability for crack repairs wasnt 
ultimately a consideration for it when it chose to pay against the total of Mr S and Miss Bs 
quote, less the £150 discussed below. Theres no reference in its file to paying for crack 
repairs, or not deducting a sum for this work from the settlement, on account of a goodwill 
gesture, and it never told Mr S and Miss B that is what it was doing. I dont view UKIs 
settlement for crack repairs as equating to compensation which reasonably needs to be 
off-set against my suggested award of £750.
Claim settlement
UKI said it will pay VAT once a VAT receipt is incurred. That is reasonable  and no 
contractor would expect VAT to be paid upfront before the work is done. Thats because 
VAT only becomes payable one work is completed.
However, I think UKI owes Mr S and Miss B £150 in respect of the wider settlement. It said 
its settlement was net £150 as this cost was detailed on the quote for replacing a sump 
pump and this wasnt needed as the property already benefitted from one. But UKI is wrong 
in this respect on two counts. First the quote details a provisional (PC) sum for alteration to 
the sump pump  not installing one. Second the quote says that as this is a PC sum it 
doesnt form part of the total cost. Ive checked the total cost  the PC sum of £150 is not 
included in the calculation. So it seems to me that UKI has deducted £150 that wasnt part of 
the total sum quoted in the first place. It should pay this now, plus interest* from 
3 October 2019, the date the settlement, net of the £150, was offered. 
I think UKI calculated the VAT based on the overall quoted sum (the quote itself didnt 
provide a breakdown) ie before the £150 was deducted. So the VAT amount UKI has agreed 
to pay, if Mr S and Miss B incur VAT, seems to be correct regardless of the later deduction 
of £150. In my view I dont need to require UKI to make a specific additional payment of VAT 
against the unreasonably deducted sum of £150. 
As I said above, the total Mr S and Miss B were quoted for work didnt include a cost for 
altering the pump because it wasnt known if this work would or wouldnt be done  if it was 
done then the contractor would have charged Mr S and Miss B an extra £150 over and 
above the total amount. But theres no explanation as to why the existing sump pump might 
need altering as part of the insured repairs. So if the sump pump was altered and Mr S and 
Miss B were eventually charged for that work, Im not minded to require UKI to pay for it, or 
any VAT in relation to it.
 
2019 leak
I understand why Mr S and Miss B think UKI is responsible for the leak  but I havent seen 
clear evidence to make me think this is most likely the case. UKI certainly didnt do work on 
underfloor piping as part of the repairs in 2016. I know Mr S and Miss B say they were told rats were in part to blame (with some pipes being chewed) and felt the rats had gained 
access due to poor repairs. Whilst airbricks at the property needed repair in 2017, and this 
work was left outstanding by UKI, its expert was satisfied the damaged bricks wouldnt have 
allowed access for rodents. Im sorry that Mr S and Miss B have felt unwell at times and 
since finding the leak have been concerned that this was due to UKIs failures, but Im not 
persuaded that is likely the case.
Laundry, mileage and disturbance allowance
I understand that Mr S and Miss B think all their clothes need cleaning. But I also see that 
UKI paid them £173 in September 2019 for having cleaned some clothes, along with the cost 
of mileage travelled to do this. This was in addition to a sum of £1,630 which UKI had paid in 
February 2017 under the contents part of the policy for clothes damaged by the flood. 
I havent seen that there is anything outstanding for UKI to pay.
The disturbance allowance was paid by UKI for a two-week period when, following the leak 
in June 2019, the family had no water at their home. UKI paid £420 for a two-week period for 
three adults (Mr S, Miss B and their teenage son). Mr S and Miss B had claimed over £600 
for this period based on receipts. I know Mr S and Miss B think UKIs settlement is unfair, 
and I can understand that  UKI has paid them less than what they spent. However, UKIs 
payment is based on a relatively standard calculation used by the industry in circumstances 
like this. And importantly such payments arent meant to reimburse all costs incurred during 
the period the home is uninhabitable. Rather such payments are designed to cover the extra 
costs incurred on account of the disruption. So, for example, with Mr S and Miss B not being 
able to use their kitchen they had to spend £600 on takeaways and the like, but they saved 
on the cost of their usual food shop because they werent cooking. I think UKIs settlement 
was fair and reasonable. Im not minded to make it pay more.
Mr S and Miss B said they accepted my decision.
UKI said it disagreed with my findings  noting they were different to our investigators and 
that it was worried I hadnt taken its side of things into account. It said it had paid £750 
already, and with the £100 our investigator had recommended, especially given the delays 
Mr S and Miss B had caused, that was fair and reasonable compensation. Regarding the 
deducted amount it argued this was a provisional sum which Mr S and Miss B hadnt shown 
theyd had to pay, so it shouldnt have to reimburse this sum to them, and definitely not with 
interest on top.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision supersedes the view issued by our investigator. I can confirm that in making my 
decision I have considered all the submissions from both parties. 
UKI did pay £750 compensation previously. But that was in respect of compensation for how 
it had handled the claim during 2016. As my provisional findings explained, I felt UKI failed 
Mr S and Miss B during 2017  2019. And any delay Mr S and Miss B caused during that 
time  especially given what I said provisionally about UKIs failure to manage and control 
the claim properly  doesnt diminish the effect UKIs failures had on them. I remain of the 
view that fair and reasonable compensation for UKI to pay for the upset it caused during 
2017 to 2019 is £750. I didnt say UKI has to pay Mr S and Miss B a provisional sum they havent incurred a cost 
for. Rather UKI paid out against the total cost set out in Mr S and Miss Bs estimate, but 
deducted the sum of £150, which was stated within the estimate as being a provisional sum 
in respect of altering a sump pump. But the estimate also explained that this £150 was not 
added into the total estimated costs for repair set out at the end of that document (and on 
which UKI based its settlement). In short UKI deducted a sum from Mr S and Miss Bs repair 
settlement which it had not been asked to pay. This means that it unreasonably withheld this 
sum from them and, as well as being paid this sum, they are entitled to an award of interest.
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay Mr S and Miss B:
£750 compensation for upset caused (this in addition to the previous payment of £750 
paid for upset caused in 2016).
£150 for its unreasonable deduction from the 2019 settlement, plus interest* from 
3 October 2019 until settlement of this sum is paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr S and Miss B, it should tell them how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr S and Miss B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman