DRN-2778190
The complaint
Miss H complains that UK Credit Limited acted irresponsibly by granting her a guarantor loan 
that was unaffordable.
What happened
In November 2012, Miss H took out a loan with UK Credit for £4,500. She was charged a 
broker fee of £450. The loan had an APR of 58.4% and was to be paid back over 24 months 
in repayments of £292.28 a month.
In 2020, Miss H complained to UK Credit that the loan provided was unaffordable. She says 
she quickly realised she was struggling to make her repayments.
UK didnt agree it had acted irresponsibly. It said it had carried out an affordability 
assessment with Miss H at the time of her application. It had also conducted credit checks 
and verified her income from her bank statements. UK Credit said the information it had 
gathered showed that Miss Hs financial position was relatively stable, and the loan was 
affordable. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Hs complaint and thought her complaint should be upheld. 
She thought the information in Miss Hs bank statements and credit file suggested Miss Hs 
income wasnt stable and she was having difficulty managing her finances. She didnt think 
UK Credit had made a responsible lending decision.
UK Credit disagreed with our investigators view. It said there were no concerns about    
Miss H not being able to afford the loan repayments when she was granted the loan. The 
reason for her not being able to sustain the repayments was down to her having a change in 
her employment when she decided to start up a new business. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required UK Credit to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss H could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. 
 
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for UK Credit to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Miss H undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for her. 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Miss H was taking out a loan for £4,500 and was committing to repay it over a period of two 
years. She was expected to pay back a total of £7,014.72, which was considerably more 
than shed borrowed. UK Credit was required to establish whether Miss H could do so 
sustainably. In other words, that she would be able to do so without undue difficulty, while 
being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further.
UK Credit says that when it approved the loan it calculated Miss Hs income to be £1,535 
after making an allowance for tax. It says its since revised this to £1,389 because £300 used 
in the original calculation appears to be money from a friend.
In her application (in November 2012) Miss H stated her monthly income was £1,600. She 
also said: I am self-employed so some months I earn £2,500 and others £1,000... In phone 
conversations with UK Credit before the loan was approved, she said shed taken six weeks 
off work to write but was about to return the following day.
UK Credit has sent us copies of the bank statements Miss H provided at the time of her 
application. There are statements from around early July to early September 2012, but 
several pages are missing. UK Credit appears to have calculated Miss Hs income based on 
money she received over this two month period, which ended around two months before the 
loan was approved. The money coming into Miss Hs bank account from her clients is quite 
sporadic. While there appears to be £2,659 in August, theres only around £943 in July. 
I think it should have been clear to UK Credit, from what shed said in her application and the 
bank statements, that Miss Hs income varied considerably from month to month. The bank 
statements also show that Miss H was receiving working tax credit, which suggests her 
income was quite low. Given the nature of Miss Hs employment, I think UK Credit should 
have carried out further checks to verify her income to assure itself that Miss H would be 
able to sustainably repay the loan. 
UK Credit says it also reviewed information on Miss Hs credit file. Its acknowledged there 
was one recent default and three that occurred over three months before. UK Credit says it 
wasnt concerned by these because one of the historic defaults had been settled and 
information showed Miss H was making payments towards the other ones. 
I dont think the information on the credit file alone is enough to say UK Credit shouldnt have 
granted Miss H the loan. But the defaults were an indication that Miss H was likely to have 
struggled with managing her finances. And the most recent default occurred only a few 
months before Miss Hs loan application. So again, I think this should have prompted UK 
Credit to gather further information to satisfy itself that she could sustainably make her 
repayments over the two year loan term. 
UK Credit says it conducted an affordability assessment with Miss H over the phone. While 
UK Credit has referred to information on her bank statements in its response to our service, 
it doesnt appear to have used these to verify Miss Hs expenditure at the time. I say this 
because the bank statements are incomplete so wouldnt have given a full picture of her 
circumstances. Its up to a business to decide what information they will use to assess 
whether lending is affordable. While it would be reasonable to expect it to review the 
information it has available to it, it doesnt necessarily have to request bank statements. But 
given the information on Miss Hs credit file, I think UK Credit should have taken steps to 
verify Miss Hs expenditure, rather than simply relying on the information she gave it over the 
phone.
Miss H told UK Credit she was taking out the loan for a deposit on an apartment she was 
renting with others. Miss H gave an estimate of what she thought her expenses were likely to 
be when she moved in. She gave estimates for bills and said she was spending nothing on clothing, £120 a month on food and housekeeping and £60 a month on entertainment. UK 
Credit seems to have taken what Miss H said at face value, without considering if these 
estimates were realistic. I dont think these expenses were likely to have remained so low for 
the two year duration of the loan.
UK Credit says its calculated that Miss H would have been left with a surplus of £300 after 
meeting her priority costs and loan repayments. This is based on its calculation of her 
income as £1,389 a month. In the affordability assessment call, Miss H told UK Credit her 
existing credit commitments were £180. This was to increase to a total of £472.28 a month 
with her repayments to UK Credit.  It works out to be 34% of UK Credits estimate of her 
monthly income. This is quite a high proportion of Miss Hs relatively low income, even if I 
was to accept this figure being an accurate reflection of what she was earning.
Having considered everything, I dont think UK Credit acted responsibly when it granted  
Miss H the loan. Its apparent from the information available to it at the time that Miss Hs 
income wasnt stable, and it was also quite low. Granting her the loan meant that a high 
proportion of her income would be committed to repaying money shed borrowed from UK 
Credit and other lenders. I think UK Credit ought reasonably to have realised that Miss H 
would most likely have had difficulty making her loan repayments without borrowing 
elsewhere. It follows that UK Credit should reasonably have realised that Miss H was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay her loan and concluded that it was not appropriate to 
lend to her.
 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss H to repay the principal amount that she borrowed 
because shes had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on a 
loan that shouldnt have been provided to her. So, UK Credit should:
Remove all interest and charges from the loan (including broker and court fees) and 
treat all the payments Miss H made as payment towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Hs loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they would 
have arisen to the date of settlement*
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should 
give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Hs complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman