DRN-3140376
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) suspended his
account on the basis of persistent debt.  
What happened
Amex sent Mr E several letters regarding his account being considered as being in a state of
persistent debt. One of these letters, sent in June 2019, advised Mr E that following a review
in another nine months, if his account remained in a state of persistent debt his account
might be suspended for further use. This meant that the final review of Mr Es account would
be undertaken in March 2020.
However, because of the emergence of the Covid-19 global pandemic at the start of 2020,
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) mandated that persistent debt reviews such as the
one due in March 2020 on Mr Es account should be delayed until at least October 2020.
In May 2020, Mr E began making larger monthly repayments on his Amex credit account -
as it was suggested that he should by the previous persistent debt communication hed
received from Amex. However, in October 2020, Amex conducted their review of Mr Es
account and made the decision to suspend the account for further use on the basis of the
accounts persistent debt status. Mr E wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Amex looked at Mr Es complaint. But they felt that theyd acted in accordance with FCA
guidance on how to manage accounts that met the criteria for being in persistent debt, so
they didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with Amexs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Amex had acted
unfairly or unreasonably here, so they also didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 October 2021 as follows:
The FCA considers that a credit account is in a state of persistent debt if the level of 
interest which accrues on that account is such that the monthly payments made 
towards the account by the customer result in the customer paying more in interest 
and charges than they do towards paying off the capital balance on the account, over 
a prolonged period.
This can often be the case where a customer is paying close to the minimum 
payment required on the account, which can result in the customer repaying the 
monthly interest that accrues on the account but making little progress towards 
reducing the actual capital balance outstanding on the account - meaning that 
monthly interest payments at a similar level keep becoming due.
Because of concerns about the long-term viability of such a situation for credit 
account holders, the FCA issued new rules surrounding how a credit provider must 
manage accounts that are considered as being in a state of persistent debt. These 
rules came into force in March 2018 and include that a credit provider must send 
letters to persistent debt customers advising that their account is considered as being 
in persistent debt and explaining the level of additional monthly payment that the 
customer needs to make so that their account is no longer considered as being in 
such a state.
These letters should also advise customers of the potential consequences, should 
their account remain in a state of persistent debt, which can include the suspension 
of the account and the initiation of a payment plan designed to clear the full 
outstanding balance over a period of no more than four years.
Amex contend that they followed the FCA rules surrounding persistent debt in this
instance. They sent the requisite letters to Mr E, and when Mr E didn't make the 
payments necessary to take his account out of persistent debt, Amex suspended Mr 
E's account and advised Mr E of the need to clear the full outstanding balance owing 
on the account.
But the FCA's position on persistent debit isn't as routine as I've explained above, 
and in February 2020 the FCA contacted credit providers and updated its position, 
and made specific reference to how a business should treat persistent debt 36-month 
("PD36") customers - such as Mr E is in this instance - and also provided clarification 
on when a credit provider should suspend a customer account, and when not to.
For instance, regarding account suspensions, the FCA state:
"We are also concerned that some firms may be planning a 'blanket' 
suspension of credit cards for all their PD36 customers.
The PD rules only require the suspension of cancellation of cards where a 
customer:
a) does not respond to the repayment options proposed within the time 
specified by the firm;
b) confirms that one or more of the proposed options are affordable but that 
they will not make the increased payments.
We remind firms that  when they choose to suspend or cancel a customer's 
access to credit they must serve customers with a notice giving reasons for 
this, and those reasons must be objectively justified.
There is no regulatory requirement (outside of those mentioned above) that a 
card must be suspended where a customer is in persistent debt, so an 
objective justification could not rely on such a requirement."In this instance, Mr E did respond to the repayment options proposed by Amex within 
the time specified, and I say his because he increased the monthly repayments that 
he was making on the account in May 2020, which was before the review of the 
account that had been put back to October 2020 as a result of the FCA mandate was 
due. As such, Im satisfied that clause (a) above doesnt apply here.
Im also satisfied that clause (b) above doesnt apply here, and I say this because it 
wasnt the case that Mr E contacted Amex and confirmed that he could afford the 
suggested higher repayments but refused to make them, and this is evidenced by the 
fact that Mr E did increase the monthly minimum payments on the account in May 
2020 as previously stated.
It follows from this that my position here that Mr Es acceptance that higher monthly
payments needed to be made on the account, and his making of those higher 
payments, means that there was no requirement resultant from the FCAs rules on 
persistent debt that Mr Es account should be suspended, and it therefore becomes 
incumbent on Amex to have provided Mr E with an objectively justified reason as to 
why it was suspending Mr Es account which doesnt depend on the FCA persistent 
debt rules for its justification.
But its evident from the correspondence that Amex have sent to Mr E that their 
decision to suspend his account was based on their interpretation of the FCA 
persistent debt rules and wasnt objectively justified by any other reason than those 
rules.
Because of this, I can confirm that I do not consider that Amexs decision to suspend 
Mr Es account and the subsequent implementation of that decision can be 
considered as being fair and reasonable and it follows that I will be upholding Mr Es 
complaint on that basis.
Furthermore, as mentioned previously, the FCA update in February 2020 clarified 
how credit providers should manage customers whose accounts have been in 
persistent debt for 36 months - such as Mr E's account was - and includes the 
following:
Where the repayment options proposed by a firm are not sustainable for the
customer, they will be in a better position if they contact the firm as they are entitled
to receive forbearance (potentially including the reduction, waiving, or cancellation of
interest and charges).
In this instance, Mr E did contact Amex when he learned of Amexs decision to 
confirm the suspension of his account, but because Amex had taken the decision to 
suspend his account  which as explained above, I dont consider to be fair or 
reasonable  Mr E didnt receive the consideration and forbearance that he was 
entitled to receive, and should have received, from Amex at that time - although it is 
my understanding that Mr E did subsequently clear the balance outstanding on the 
account in full.
All of which means that my provisional decision here will be that Im upholding this 
complaint in Mr Es favour and that my provisional instructions to Amex will be as 
follows:
1. Amex must remove the suspension from Mr E's credit account with immediate 
effect and restore the account so that it can be used by Mr E without restriction.2. Amex must make a payment of £150 to Mr E to compensate him for the trouble 
and upset this matter has caused. This payment may not take the form of a credit to 
Mr E's Amex credit account unless Mr E gives his permission for it to do so.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr E and Amex the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Mr C confirmed that he was happy to accept my provisional decision, whereas 
Amex didnt respond at all.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision and uphold this complaint on the basis 
outlined in my provisional decision, and I can confirm that my final decision is that I uphold 
this complaint in Mr Es favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Amex must remove the suspension from Mr E's credit account with immediate effect and 
restore the account so that it can be used by Mr E without restriction.
Amex must make a payment of £150 to Mr E to compensate him for the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused. This payment may not take the form of a credit to Mr E's Amex credit 
account unless Mr E gives his permission for it to do so.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against American Express Services Europe 
Limited on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman