DRN-1068291
Complaint
Mrs H says Financial Insurance Company Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs H took out in November 1994. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case. 
Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why below.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H. This means it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
FICL has provided us with a copy of Mrs Hs store card application form. Within the 
application form, theres a section for the PPI. In this section, Mrs H was asked to tick a box 
if she wanted the PPI added to her store card. While I can see that Mrs H ticked the yes 
box for the PPI, I cant see that section made any mention of the benefits of the PPI or its 
cost.
In cases where I think theres been an information failing, I have to think about whether the 
consumer would have done something differently had they been given the information they 
needed to decide if the PPI was right for them. In this case I think the information failing did 
make a difference as I dont think Mrs H would have agreed to the policy had she been given 
better information. Ill explain why.
 
Mrs H has told us that she would have been entitled to between six and twelve months sick 
pay from her employer if she was too ill to work. Using what I know about Mrs Hs job, her 
likely length of tenure and her employer, I think its more likely than not that she would have 
been entitled to the sick pay she says she had.In addition to this, Mrs H has told us that she had significant savings which says she could 
have used to help cover her store card repayments if she ever fell on hard times.
Mrs H hasnt been able to provide us with any additional information to support what shes 
told us about her savings, which isnt surprising given her savings date back to 1994. Mrs H 
has, however, been consistent in what shes told us about her savings, so I have no reason 
to doubt what shes told us. That said, even if I were to accept that Mrs H had less savings 
than shes told us, I still think its likely she had enough savings and sick pay to make a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Having thought about what Mrs H has told us about her circumstances at the time of sale, I 
think that her sick pay along with her savings shows that she didnt have a need for the PPI. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mrs H could have managed without the PPI for long enough 
not to really need it. Had FICL given her all the information about the policy cost and its 
benefits, I dont think Mrs H would have considered it good value for money or a useful thing 
to have. So, I think Mrs H has lost out because of what FICL did wrong. 
It follows that I think the PPI was mis-sold.
Putting things right
FICL should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. FICL should find out how much Mrs H would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.*
C. If  when FICL works out what Mrs H would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs H 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs H would 
have owed FICL something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.*
D. FICL should tell Mrs H what its done to work out A, B and C.
FICL may deduct any payment already made by the lender to Mrs H in respect of the 
undisclosed commission and profit share, from the amount due to Mrs H.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Financial Insurance Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman