DRN-3559417
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) hasnt reimbursed him after he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr B received an email at work he believed to be from the CEO of the company asking him 
for his personal phone number. This email turned out to be from a scammer. The 
conversation moved to Whatsapp where the scammer asked Mr B to buy over £3,500 worth 
of retail gift cards. Mr B travelled to nearby retailers where he made the following 
transactions, all on 26 August 2021:
12:23 Retailer A £400
12:37 Retailer A £600
12:47 Retailer A £1,000
13:00 Retailer A £250
13:02 Retailer A £250
13:23 Retailer A £400
13:24 Retailer A £250
13:55 Retailer B £200
14:03 Retailer C £50
14:04 Retailer C £50
14:05 Retailer C £50
14:05 Retailer C £50
14:06 Retailer C £25
After he had spent all his available funds, Mr B spoke with work colleagues and realised hed 
been the victim of a scam. He contacted Monzo, but it didnt feel it was liable for Mr Bs loss 
as hed authorised the payments. It also explained it was unable to pursue the payments by 
other means, such as chargeback, as the merchant hed paid had provided the goods hed 
paid for. 
Mr B brought the complaint to our service and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. 
They felt Monzo ought to have recognised the payments made indicated Mr B was at risk of 
fraud, but felt Mr B shared some responsibility in making the payments without verifying 
them further. Monzo didnt accept the investigators findings so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Theres no dispute in this case that Mr B authorised the payments he made to 
scammers. Under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of his 
account this means Mr B is liable for them as a starting point. And Monzo has suggested this 
means there is nothing further to consider, but this isnt the case.
Its also set out that the CRM code doesnt apply in this case, and I agree. The payments Mr 
B made to scammers were card payments, so the CRM code hasnt been taken into account 
here. But Monzos responsibilities to its customers arent limited to the CRM code. And 
taking into account the other law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time I think Monzo should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Mr B had an account with Monzo that he used regularly. So Im satisfied it had a record of 
his general use of the account before the payments he made as part of a scam. And like the 
investigator, I agree it ought to have recognised that suddenly spending thousands of 
pounds in under two hours, in repeated transactions that drained his account balance and 
required several transfers from other pots within the account was significantly unusual.
And even without a record of general use to compare to, I think Monzo reasonably ought to 
have recognised numerous transactions to the same retailer minutes apart is an indication of 
fraudulent activity. Especially when these transactions are for repeated amounts.
By the third transaction Mr B made, which was to the same retailer within 25 minutes, Monzo 
ought to have intervened to establish whether the payments were genuine. Had it done this, 
and had it sufficiently questioned Mr B about the transactions  asking what they were for 
and who they were to, I cant see any reason he wouldnt have told it he thought he was 
buying multiple retail gift cards for the CEO of his company. And given what Id expect 
Monzo to know about fraud and scams, I wouldve expected it to have probed further, and 
recognised the situation as a scam, explained this to Mr B and provided sufficient warnings 
against continuing to make the payments.Had it done this, I think its unlikely Mr B wouldve continued with the payments from this 
point and they wouldve been prevented. So, based on the information available to it at the 
time, I think Monzo missed an opportunity to prevent Mr B losing some of his money  from 
the third payment he made - and therefore is partly liable for this loss.
But, Ive also considered whether Mr B is partially responsible for the loss (from the third 
payment onwards) by way of contributory negligence and I think he does share responsibility 
for the loss in this case.
I think it ought to have seemed unusual to Mr B that someone so senior at his place 
of work asked him to converse over Whatsapp and start purchasing large volumes of 
retail gift cards. It doesnt appear he was given an in depth reason as to why so many 
were needed or Mr B needed to use his own money to do this. It also wasnt 
explained to him why, if they were gifts for clients, he needed to both purchase cards 
to put them in but also instantly provide the gift card numbers (which allows the gift 
card to be used) via Whatsapp to his CEO.
Although Mr B has said his CEOs signature was included in the emails, the email 
address used appears to have been entirely unrelated to the company Mr B works 
for. And Mr B didnt try and verify or double check the email came from his CEO as I 
think he reasonably ought to have done.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr B does share 50% of the liability from the payments I think Monzo 
reasonably ought to have prevented. 
Redress
From the third payment he made as part of the scam onwards, Mr B lost £2,575. I think 
Monzo is liable for 50% of this loss and should reimburse him for this amount (£1,287.50).
It should pay simple interest on this amount at a rate of 8% from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement to reflect the amount of time Mr B has been deprived of the funds.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay the redress Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman