DRN-3908661
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as S has complained that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) unfairly
turned down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr S, a director of S, brought the complaint on Ss behalf through a representative. For ease 
of reading, I will refer to S throughout.
Reference to Lloyds will also include anything done by the underwriting syndicate.
What happened
S held business interruption insurance with Lloyds. S claimed on its policy after its business
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic.
Lloyds declined Ss claim as it said the policy required any losses to be as a result of
damage, and Ss losses hadnt been caused by damage. Lloyds also said that there was an
exclusion within the policy which precludes coverage for Loss, damage or legal liability
arising, directly or indirectly, from Pathogenic Organisms or any form of bacterial
contamination except in respect of the Insurance provided by the Disease, Infestation and
Defective Sanitation under Section E  Business Interruption. Lloyds said that Covid-19
was a pathogenic organism and therefore this exclusion would apply.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, S brought its complaint to our service. It said it had been
forced to close to comply with Government instruction and it did not agree with Lloyds
interpretation of the policy. S said the exclusion doesnt apply to the disease section and
therefore the policy should provide cover for its claim.
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint and recommended it should be upheld under the
clause for murder, suicide or disease. She didnt think the requirement for damage made
sense within the clause and was therefore likely to be a drafting error. She thought a
reasonable policyholder entering into the contract would interpret the clause to not require
damage and on that basis the extension would provide cover. She therefore recommended
that Lloyds pay Ss claim.
S didnt provide any further comments in response to our investigators recommendation.
Lloyds didnt agree to the recommendation, so the complaint has been passed to me for a
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 January 2023 explaining why I didnt 
intend to uphold Ss complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ss business. However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ss claim.
Core business interruption cover
The core business interruption cover (at section 8.1) provided by Ss policy covers loss as a
result of business interruption or interference resulting from damage to property at Ss
premises. The policy defines damage as physical loss, physical damage, physical
destruction.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Ss property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible
damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the
cause of potential damage. However, I havent seen anything to indicate that the
interruption to Ss business was as a result of damage, so I think Lloyds acted reasonably
in saying there was no cover under this section of the policy.
Denial of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. There is an extension
for denial of access however, this requires Ss loss to be as a result of damage, as defined
in the policy, to premises [property] within the vicinity of Ss premises. Again, I havent seen 
anything to indicate that the interruption to Ss business was as a result of damage to 
property in the vicinity of its premises. So this doesnt provide cover.
Murder, suicide or disease
This extension says:
 We shall indemnify you in respect of interruption of or interference with the
business caused by damage, as defined in clause 8.1, arising from:
a) any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak
of which the local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them manifested by
any person whilst in the premises or within a twenty five (25) mile radius of it;
          b) murder or suicide in the premises;
c) injury or illness sustained by any person arising from or traceable to foreign or
injurious matter in food or drink provided in the premises;
d) vermin or pests in the premises;
e) the closing of the whole or part of the premises by order of a competent public
authority consequent upon defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at
         the premises.
The insurance by this clause shall only apply for the period beginning with the
occurrence of the loss and ending not later than three (3) months thereafter
during which the results of the business shall be affected in consequence of the
damage.
It is under this clause that our investigator thought Ss claim should be paid, however, I dont
think it should be and Ill explain why.As set out above, section 8.1 sets out how the policy will provide cover if there is damage to
property used by S at its premises.
The General Definitions page of the policy says that any word in bold will have the same
meaning throughout the policy. As the word damage is highlighted in bold I think the 
definition within the policy applies and I think for the extension to provide cover, the
interruption to the business must be caused by a physical loss, physical damage or physical
destruction.
As a starting point, Ive considered what a reasonable reader, with all of the background
knowledge which would reasonably have been available to them, would reasonably have
thought when entering into the contract. Having done so, in my view, the wording of the
policy is clear to the parties entering into the contract that there is a requirement for damage
to have occurred in order for this extension to apply.
I do find it difficult to think of many scenarios where a disease which occurred within a 25
mile radius of the insured premises would cause physical damage at the premises. However,
I accept that other parts of this clause could provide cover which wouldnt be covered
elsewhere. For example, interruption caused by vermin chewing through cables wouldnt be
covered under the core business interruption insurance section (as the damage would be
excluded under the property damage section) but would be covered by point d) of this
clause.
In my view, given the meaning of the clause is clear, that some parts of it provide limited
cover isnt a reason to conclude that it should be interpreted as a non-damage denial of
access clause.
I have also considered whether there was an obvious error in the drafting, but I dont think
there was. The wording referring to 8.1 hasnt been inserted into every part of 8.2 which
indicates to me that its likely the reference to 8.1 was put deliberately into those clauses
where Lloyds intended it to apply. Also, the other extensions within the policy require there
to have been damage, which indicates to me that Lloyds intended to cover business
interruption only as a result of damage. Many insurance policies only cover business
interruption as a result of damage and Im not aware that S paid any additional amount for
non-damage cover.
When considering the policy as a whole, on balance, Im persuaded that Lloyds intended to
draft the policy as its written, which requires there to have been damage. As I havent seen
anything to indicate that the interruption was as a result of damage, I dont believe that this
extension provides cover.
The exclusion
Lloyds has referred to an exclusion for loss caused by pathogenic organism. I agree with S
that this exclusion wouldnt apply to the extension for disease as set out within the wording
of the exclusion itself. However, I dont consider that it makes a difference because the
extension for disease doesnt provide cover even in the absence of any exclusion.
I recognise this isnt the outcome S was hoping for but, having considered things very
carefully, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Lloyds didnt respond by the required date, but S didnt agree with my provisional decision. 
In summary, it said:
S asked for clarification about why I didnt agree with the outcome the investigator 
reached given that we had considered the same policy wording and circumstances. No reasonable person would read the disease term as requiring damage. They would 
consider that damage meant damage to business which in this case was the 
requirement to close.
Attributing the damage requirement to the cleaning of premises due to the virus is a 
tenuous and stretching argument in order to substantiate the repudiation of the claim.
Under the denial of access clause - S was denied access to its premises under the 
requirements of the authorities and to have accessed them would have been 
potentially unlawful.
It disagrees that a reasonable person would interpret the disease clause as requiring 
damage but in any event the business was damaged by the closure. 
The disease clause within the policy is misleading and confusing and makes a 
reasonable person believe they would be covered in the circumstances that 
occurred. S queried what cover is provided by this clause and said it should be 
removed if it doesnt provide cover. 
Given the different interpretations which have been reached by the investigator and 
the ombudsman how can a policyholder be expected to know what the policy covers 
and what is excluded. 
In response to S, I asked our investigator to share with S what I believed to be relevant case 
law to support my decision as to what would constitute damage. The cases are TKC London 
Limited v Allianz Insurance plc [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm). Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels 
Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 2 
WLR 348.
S reiterated the points it had made in response to my provisional decision as it remained of 
the view that its complaint should be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional 
decision, Ill explain why. 
S has asked for clarification of why I have reached a different outcome to our investigator. I 
have set out the reasons why I am not going to uphold this complaint in my provisional 
decision and those are the reasons why I disagree with our investigator. As I have set out 
the reasons in my provisional decision I am not going to repeat them in full here. 
S also asked how it would be possible for Covid-19 to cause physical damage. I dont think it 
is for me to decide how it would be possible for Covid-19 to cause damage to property. 
Instead I need to consider whether Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in how it has 
dealt with Ss claim. In doing so, I have considered what I believe to be the most relevant 
clauses within the policy and when doing so whether those clauses apply to the 
circumstances of Ss claim. Therefore, rather than commenting on how Covid-19 could 
cause physical damage, my role is to decide whether its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to 
decide that the clauses require damage and to conclude that the interruption or interference 
to Ss business wasnt caused by damage. 
As set out in my provisional decision, I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would 
need to be a physical change or altered state to Ss property, which made it less valuable. 
Alternatively, its possible damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was 
required to remove the cause of potential damage. When reaching this conclusion on what I 
would consider to be damage I have taken into account what I believe to be the relevant law which includes the following cases TKC London Limited v Allianz Insurance plc [2020] 
EWHC 2710 (Comm). Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v 
London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
S said that no reasonable person would read the disease clause and consider that it requires 
damage to property. It said a reasonable person would consider the damage to be the 
damage to the business  i.e. that the business had been damaged by a forced closure. For 
completeness, I will comment on the definition of damage within each part of the policy I 
referred to within my provisional decision. 
The core business interruption section of the policy says:
If there is damage to property used by you at the premises during the period 
of insurance and in consequence of the business carried on by you at the 
premises is interrupted or interfered with
The word damage is highlighted in bold. The General definitions and interpretation section 
of the policy says that where words are highlighted in bold they will have the same meaning 
throughout the policy. Within this section the policy defines damage as physical loss, 
physical damage, physical destruction. 
I think its clear from the wording of the policy that the interruption or interference to Ss 
business would need to be as a result of physical loss, physical damage or physical 
destruction to property rather than a loss of income due to closure. As I explained above, I 
dont believe that Covid-19 caused physical loss, physical damage or physical destruction to 
property, so I believe it was reasonable for Lloyds to say that there was no cover under the 
core business interruption section of the policy. 
The extension for denial of access says:
We shall indemnity you in respect of interruption of or interference with the 
business caused by damage, as defined in clause 8.1, to property in the vicinity 
of the premises which shall prevent the use of the premises or access thereto 
whether the premises and your property therein shall we damaged or not
The word damage is again highlighted in bold setting out that the policy definition applies. It 
also specifically refers to clause 8.1. As such, I think its clear from this that in order to 
provide cover there needs to be a physical loss, physical damage or physical destruction to 
property in Ss vicinity which prevents the use of Ss premises or access to Ss premises. For 
the reasons explained previously, I do not believe that the interruption to Ss business was 
due to physical loss, physical damage or physical destruction to property within the vicinity of 
Ss premises which prevented the use of, or access to, Ss premises. As such, while S might 
not have been able to access its premises, I dont consider that this was as a result of 
damage to property in the vicinity and so I remain of the view that Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably in saying that this clause doesnt provide cover in the circumstances of Ss claim. 
With regard to the clause for disease, the relevant part of the clause says:
We shall indemnify you in respect of interruption of or interference with the
business caused by damage, as defined in clause 8.1, arising from:
a) any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak
of which the local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them manifested by
any person whilst in the premises or within a twenty five (25) mile radius of it;As set out in my provisional decision, I think its clear that the policy definition applies and 
that there would need to be physical loss, physical damage or physical destruction arising 
from the disease in order to provide cover. I accept Ss point that the cover provided by this 
part of the clause appears limited but for the reasons explained in my provisional decision, I 
dont believe thats a reason to rewrite the clause to provide cover without damage 
occurring. 
S also said that, given that our investigator and I had reached different outcomes, how can a 
policyholder of reasonable intelligence be expected to understand what the policy covers. As 
set out in my provisional decision, the starting point for interpreting a contract is how it would 
be considered by a reasonable policyholder with the relevant background knowledge that 
would reasonably have been available at the time they entered into the contract. I think the 
background knowledge that is reasonably available includes an understanding of how the 
definitions within the policy would apply. As Ive said, while I accept that the clause appears 
to provide limited cover, I think the policy is clear that it requires damage in order to provide 
cover. Im not persuaded that there has been damage as defined by the policy, so I dont 
think it would be appropriate for me to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman