DRN-1661045
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a travel disruption claim he 
made under his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M holds travel insurance as a benefit of his packaged bank account.
In April 2019, Mr M booked a multi-leg holiday for his family. They were due to travel to a 
number of countries and they were scheduled to fly to the first of those countries in February 
2020.
Unfortunately, around two weeks later during April 2019, there was a terrorist incident in the 
first country Mr M was due to fly to. At that point, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) advised against all but essential travel to that country. 
Based on the FCO guidance, and the fact that Mr M would be travelling with a young child, 
he decided to change his travel plans. In May 2019, he cancelled his flights to the first 
country and booked new flights to a different country which didnt have any FCO warnings in 
place. He made a claim to AXA for the cost of the cancelled flights and the cost of booking 
the new flight.
AXA turned down Mr Ms claim. It said the travel disruption section of the policy only covers 
cancellation claims where the FCO advises against all travel, or all but essential travel within 
28 days of a policyholders departure date.  As Mr M wasnt due to go on his trip until around 
eight months later; it said this section of the policy didnt apply. 
Mr M was unhappy with AXAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said 
the primary reason for cancelling the original flight was to ensure his familys safety. Given 
the nature of the trip and the fact it was multi-leg, they werent in a position to delay making a 
decision about the trip until nearer their departure date. He felt hed mitigated AXAs losses 
by amending the trip early on. He said the decision to cancel the flights was reasonable, 
proportionate and in line with the FCO guidance. He felt travel insurance should cover costs 
claimed in these circumstances.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the policy 
covered the circumstances of his claim. And she thought Mr M had had a reasonable 
amount of time before departure to make a decision about his trip.
Mr M disagreed. He said he still felt that his personal circumstances meant AXA should 
cover his claim. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr Ms claim. Ill explain why.
First, I can appreciate why Mr M wanted to change his holiday plans. I understand that 
following the terrorist incident in the country he was planning to travel to first, he was 
concerned about the safety of his family. Especially as the FCO initially advised against all 
but essential travel to that country. When it downgraded this advice, it still stated there was a 
high risk of further attacks. So I understand why Mr M felt cancelling and rearranging that leg 
of the trip was the right thing for his family.
But in making my decision, I need to consider what the terms of Mr Ms policy say. I need to 
decide whether I think AXAs applied them fairly. 
Section Q  Travel Disruption Cover covers unused pre-paid accommodation or travel 
expenses if a policyholder cant travel because of one of the listed insured events.  One of 
those events provides cover if:
The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other regulatory 
authority in a country to/from which you are travelling advising against all travel or all but 
essential travel to the specific area you are travelling to, providing the advicewas within 28 
days of your departure date.
Its clear in this case that the FCO did advise against all but essential travel to the first 
country Mr M had planned to travel to, in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attack. If Mr 
M had planned to travel while that guidance was in place, or it was within 28 days of his 
departure, I think he couldve reasonably expected AXA to meet the cancellation costs of the 
pre-paid flights.
But Mr M cancelled the trip around eight months before he was due to travel. It was possible 
that the FCO advice could quickly change in that period (and in fact, the advice was 
downgraded around three weeks after Mr M rearranged his trip). While I appreciate he 
wanted to ensure his trip was fully planned and finalise departure points etc, I do think it 
mightve been reasonable for him to wait and see if the advice changed. Because the advice 
did change, Mr Ms claim simply wouldnt have been covered by the time he was within 28 
days of travelling.
I simply dont think it would be fair and reasonable here to direct AXA to pay Mr Ms claim 
given he cancelled so far in advance. The cancellation date was around seven months 
before AXAs liability wouldve been due to engage under this section of the policy. And 
given the change in FCO guidance, AXA wouldnt have incurred any costs even within 28 
days of the claim. So I cant fairly say Mr Ms actions mitigated its costs.
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman