DRN-2238412
The complaint
The organisation which is bringing this complaint is a professional association which Ill call 
B. 
B complained because Allied Irish Banks Plc, trading as Allied Irish Bank (GB), which Ill call 
AIB, cancelled all the direct debits which its members had set up with the bank.
B says that it spent a lot of time sorting out what had happened, and had to contact all its 
members who paid by direct debit to arrange new mandates. Some of these didnt renew. B 
doesnt think the £500 compensation offered by AIB is enough for the time, office costs, 
inconvenience and damage to reputation.
What happened
In November 2018, B decided to change its direct debit provider. B rang AIB, asking what 
steps it needed to do to enable the direct debits to be credited to its AIB account. 
Unfortunately, instead of arranging a bulk transfer of the existing direct debit mandates, AIB 
deactivated the mandates of all Bs members on 29 November 2018.
Bs new provider explained to AIB what should have happened, and asked whether the bulk 
transfer could still be done. But it couldnt.
B complained. It said that the unauthorised deactivation had caused extensive disruption, 
costs in contacting all affected members, and loss of income.
AIB upheld Bs complaint. It apologised for its error by a former member of staff, and in May 
2019 said it would discuss compensation with Bs accountant. In AIBs final response in 
November 2019, the bank said that it wasnt willing to reimburse the loss of membership 
fees. It said that as a gesture of goodwill it would offer £500 for any inconvenience caused 
by deactivating the direct debits.
B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. It said it had lost £15,590 in membership 
income in 2019. It also explained that it had had to spend around 400 hours contacting 344 
members affected by the direct debit cancellation. As well as the cost of this time, there had 
been extra office costs, including phone, stationery and postage costs. The Committee had 
also spent between 20  30 hours dealing with AIB over the 12 month period of the dispute.  
B also said that it had lost 97 members, and some others hadnt renewed their direct debits 
because they didnt feel the method was safe. This would lead to higher admin costs in 
future years.
The investigator didnt uphold Bs complaint. He said that as the circumstances of the 
complaint werent in dispute, hed focus on whether the £500 compensation was reasonable. 
The investigator didnt consider the membership fees should be reimbursed by AIB. He said 
that it was ultimately up to individual members whether to continue their memberships. And 
he noted that as B was an organisation, it couldnt be distressed, though it could be caused 
inconvenience. The investigator considered that AIBs offer of £500 compensation was fair 
for the inconvenience.
B didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman decision. It said that even if AIB couldnt be 
found culpable for the lost membership fees, it didnt feel that £500 was sufficient for the 400 
hours of office work contacting affected members, or for the disruption to the organisation.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As its not in dispute that AIB was at fault when it cancelled all Bs members direct debits, 
my decision focuses on what would be fair and reasonable compensation.
I asked B for more information about the impact of AIBs mistake. I asked about the process 
which B used to deal with the cancelled direct debits; the number of members who signed up 
again following each stage of the chase-up process; whether the work was done by 
volunteers or paid employees; salaries; and what work these staff would otherwise have 
done.
B confirmed that two paid employees carried out the work of contacting existing members to 
ask them to reinstate their direct debits, and it provided salary figures. 
Bs process was:
- It emailed all 344 members.  Approximately a quarter, ie around 86, responded and 
completed a new direct debit;
- It posted a letter to the remaining member ie around 258 letters. Approximately 
another quarter of the original number, ie 86, responded and completed a new direct 
debit;
- It phoned the remaining member ie around 172 phone calls.  Approximately 34 
responded and completed a new direct debit;
- It sent both a follow-up email and letter to the remainder who hadnt responded, ie 
around 138 further emails and letters.
B said that there were eventually 97 members whom it either couldnt reach, or who decided 
not to renew membership. It said that this led to a reduction in revenue of £15,590. In 
addition there was the cost of all the work in contacting members and asking them to renew.
B also replied that when its two employees were working on the direct debit problem, they 
should have been preparing for the annual trade event, the international competition, and 
dealing with queries.  As a result, this work couldnt be done as efficiently and promptly as 
usual, which would lead to long term cost to the organisation.
When we consider compensation, we look at this in two parts: financial loss, and 
compensation for upset and inconvenience.
Financial lossI considered that the financial loss which B suffered as a result of AIBs error could be 
divided into:
- Bs claim for £15,590 which it says represents the fact that 97 members either 
couldnt be reached or decided not to renew membership;
- The cost of the phone calls, paper, envelopes, printer ink, and postage;
- The reputational and opportunity cost losses from 400 hours of paid employee time, 
and 20  30 hours of committee member time, when they could not be working on 
the longer-term projects.
Looking at each of these in turn:
I didnt agree that AIB was responsible for the loss of 97 members who either couldnt  be 
contacted or didnt respond to any of Bs approaches. Thats because it couldnt clearly be 
demonstrated that the reason why these members didnt renew was down to the mistake. So 
I said I did not intend to award compensation for the £15,590 membership fees which these 
members had been expected to pay.
I said that it was difficult accurately to assess the cost of the phone calls, paper, envelopes, 
printer ink, and postage.  I didnt consider there would be a financial loss for emails, although 
I recognise that the time spent would form part of the 400 hours which B told us its 
employees spent on the task. The largest element of financial loss would be postage, which I 
estimated on the basis of  second class postage. A certain number of phone calls would 
probably be included in Bs phone package, but I considered it was likely that the 172 extra 
calls might well have exceeded whatever package they normally had in place. 
Based on the process and detailed figures which B supplied, which Ive set out above, I 
estimated that a reasonable figure for the 258 letters in stage two, 172 phone calls in stage 3 
and 138 further letters in stage 4, would be £450.
Reputational and opportunity costs are always difficult to quantify accurately.  In terms of 
reputational cost, I thought it more likely that members, members clients, and the general 
public, would form their views about B on the basis of the professionalism and service it 
normally provided. I didnt think these people would think less of B as a result of it having 
suffered a significant mistake from its bank.
In terms of opportunity cost, when employees would have been doing other things, I 
accepted that there would be some impact, which I estimated at £50. But I considered this 
was more likely to have been in terms of upset and inconvenience to those who worked hard 
to deal with the pressure of  multiple tasks at the same time, which Ive considered below. 
So my provisional decision was that AIB should pay B a total of £500 for financial loss 
caused by AIBs error.
Distress and inconvenience
Where an organisation is a limited company, we cant award compensation for distress or 
upset in the same way that we can for individuals. Thats because a company is an entity 
which cant feel distress. But B isnt a limited company, but a membership organisation. It 
has a president and four committee members, and two employees. It was clear from the 
correspondence that these individuals did suffer both distress and inconvenience as a result 
of AIBs error. First, it took a long time for AIB to deal with the problem. One piece of evidence which 
indicates this is that the mistake took place on 29 November 2018, and AIBs final response 
was dated 27 November 2019. I accepted that Bs officers spent 20  30 hours dealing with 
AIB and the direct debit provider. This was in addition to the 400 hours which employees had 
to spend contacting the members. There would have been a lot of frustration. It must have 
seemed unbelievable that any bank would have just cancelled all the direct debits crediting a 
membership organisations account.
And there was a lot of inconvenience, as well as the distress. It was clear that Bs Committee 
was put to a lot of trouble as a result of AIBs mistake. The officers and employees would 
have had to devise the best way of contacting all their 344 members, and as Ive set out 
above, this turned out to be a multi-stage process because not all members responded to 
Bs approaches. It took B a long time to the point where it accepted that it had got as far as it 
was going to, with trying to get members to set up new direct debits. All those involved at B 
would have felt the pressure caused by this additional task, and theyd have had to work 
intensely, in order to deal with this on top of what they would normally have been doing. 
I considered that a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience would be £500. 
So I considered that AIB should pay B a total of £1,000, representing £500 financial loss and 
£500 for distress and inconvenience. I explained that I also intended to award interest at 8% 
simple on the £500 financial loss, from 29 November 2018 to the date of payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
B said it was still disappointed, though it felt the circumstances, effects and actions had been 
fully understood. It asked whether it could have more compensation, for the time spent. It 
said it appreciated that £450 had been included for postage and phone, but nothing for the 
paid time for its employees, whose salary details it had submitted.
AIB said that it accepted my provisional decision. Id asked for confirmation about any 
payments already made, and AIB confirmed that none had yet been made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered Bs request for more compensation, to reflect salary costs.
As Ive set out above, when we consider compensation, we look at it in two parts: financial 
loss, and compensation for upset and inconvenience. Compensation for time forms part of 
financial loss. 
Here, B doesnt appear to have paid the employees for any extra time. Instead, it told us 
that they werent able to do the work theyd normally have done at that time  preparing for 
the annual trade event, the international competition, and dealing with queries. So there 
wasnt any actual extra cost, or financial loss, in terms of salaries. 
As I set out in the provisional decision, opportunity cost  what the employees would have 
been doing if theyd not had to deal with this problem  is always difficult to quantify. I 
accept that there would be some impact from what they werent able to do, which I 
estimated at £50. But I find that this aspect was more likely to have been in terms of upset and inconvenience 
to those who worked hard to deal with the pressure of multiple tasks. And this distress 
suffered by the employees forms part of the £500 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
So I dont agree that there should be any more compensation than I set out in my 
provisional decision. I consider this is a fair and reasonable outcome for Bs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order Allied Irish Banks Plc, trading as Allied Irish Bank (GB), to 
pay B:
- £500 for financial loss resulting from its mistake; and 
- £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and 
- Interest at 8% simple on the £500 financial loss, from 29 November 2018 to the date 
of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman