DRN-1619820
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy Barclays Bank Uk Plc incorrectly recorded her as being bankrupt and said 
her mortgage account was in arrears.
Mrs W holds the mortgage account jointly with Mr W. He has joined this complaint but as 
the issues mostly concern Mrs W, I will refer to her throughout this decision.
What happened
Barclays wrote to Mrs W to say it had been notified she'd been made bankrupt and to let her 
know her mortgage account was in arrears because of this.  Mrs W contacted Barclays and 
was told she would need to provide proof she wasn't bankrupt. But, Barclays then realised it 
had mixed her account up with someone else's, so she didn't have to do this. Mrs W was 
unhappy about what had happened and how long the matter was taking, so complained to 
Barclays.
Barclays accepted it had made a mistake. To put matters right, it removed the bankruptcy 
markers from Mrs W's credit file. Mrs W asked Barclays to pay for a 12-month 
subscription to a credit file checking service which it agreed to do and, it also offered her 
£350 compensation. 
Mrs W was unhappy with the amount of compensation. She said it didn't reflect the amount 
of stress she'd been under, she received the letter just before Christmas and this meant she 
couldn't enjoy that period. She also said she'd had to call quite a few times to chase the 
matter.
Our investigator looked at the case and thought the amount Mrs W had been offered was 
fair. The investigator acknowledged it would have been very upsetting for Mrs W to be told 
she was bankrupt when she wasn't. And she recognised it took around a month to resolve 
the matter, during which Mrs W was calling for updates. But overall, the investigator thought 
Barclays had done enough to put the matter right and didn't think the compensation amount 
should be increased.
Mrs W didn't agree. She told the investigator she'd said to Barclays she would accept £500 
compensation. She reiterated it was a very stressful time, she had to chase the matter with 
Barclays, and she'd worried about the impact the matter could have had on Mr W's job. 
Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to consider the case. 
The case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I won't be asking Barclays to do anything more. I'll explain why. Barclays has admitted it made a mistake and has taken appropriate steps to put the matter 
right in terms of Mrs W's mortgage account. And, it has removed all evidence of the 
bankruptcy marker from Mrs W's file. It's also agreed to pay for a subscription to a credit file 
checking service which I think is a reasonable thing to do. 
It's clear Mrs W doesn't think the amount of compensation Barclays has offered reflects the 
trouble and upset it caused. So, what is left for me to decide is the level of compensation 
which should be paid. 
When considering whether a fair amount of compensation has been suggested, Ive thought 
about how quickly Barclays realised its error and apologised for it. Ive also taken into 
account how long it took to remove the information from Mrs W's file.  Mrs W has detailed 
how the mistake impacted her and I've taken this into consideration too. 
Mrs W hasn't said having the bankruptcy marker on her file for a short time caused her any 
additional difficulties, such as getting credit elsewhere. So, I don't think there are any other 
losses I need to take into account. And, I realise Mrs W may have worried about a potential 
impact on Mr W's job but thankfully this didn't happen. I have to focus my consideration on 
events that actually happened. 
I have a great deal of sympathy with the situation Mrs W found herself in, through no fault of 
her own. I dont doubt this was a very upsetting and worrying time for Mrs W given the time 
of year when it happened. And, I realise she would have been anxious for the matter to be 
resolved as quickly as possible.
I understand Mrs W feels strongly about the matter but, having considered everything, I think 
the £350 compensation Barclays has offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Overall, while Barclays has made an error, I think it has acted in a fair and reasonable way in 
putting things right, so I won't be asking it to do anything more here.
My final decision
I don't uphold Mrs W and Mr W's complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
It doesn't need to do anything more except make arrangements to pay Mrs W the 
compensation it has previously offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman