DRN-2343549
The complaint
Ms K complains that she tried to pay a cheque in for £100,000 in July 2019. HSBC didnt 
credit the cheque and then blocked her accounts. She isnt able to access her funds. She 
would like the accounts unblocked and the cheque credited to her account.
Ms K is represented by Ms D.
What happened
Ms K has two accounts with HSBC a current account and a savings account.
In July 2019 Miss K received a cheque from the person she was a carer for who I will call 
Mr S. He gave her a cheque for £100,000 as a gift. 
Ms K went to her bank to pay in this cheque. HSBC had concerns about the cheque, so they 
didnt credit her account. Instead they queried it with the sending bank. The sending bank 
asked HSBC not to credit the cheque. The sending bank said the cheque had been reported 
as theft and they needed to look into it further.
HSBC decided to carry out their own review, so they blocked Ms Ks accounts. They also 
decided to wait for the results of the sending banks investigations.
The cheque was reported as theft to the police by a member of Mr Ss family and so Ms K 
was arrested by the police. The police looked into things and found that the cheque was 
given with full consent and so they closed the investigation. 
HSBC continued to block her account and so Ms K complained to them on 
17 September 2019.
HSBC said that the accounts were still under review and they couldnt provide her with 
further information. She was able to access her wages.
As she was unhappy with their response, she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into things. She said HSBC were entitled to review her account. 
They had been entitled to not credit the cheque because of the information provided to them 
by the sending bank. She thought that HSBC hadnt done anything wrong and so although 
she recognised the inconvenience and upset this was causing Ms K, she didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Ms K was unhappy with our investigators view she said:
She didnt believe the signature on the cheque didnt match. She doesnt accept that 
there were genuine concerns regarding the authenticity of the cheque. She said the 
branch manager said he wouldnt have queried the signature.
The report to the police of theft was a false allegation.
HSBC could have concluded the investigation in August 2019 when the police 
finished their investigation and were willing to contact or be contacted by HSBC.
There are no concerns over the funds in her account. 
HSBC havent followed correct procedures. HSBC havent resolved this as quickly as 
possible, the review is taking too long.
Its unreasonable for HSBC to continue to wait on the sending bank to conclude the 
investigation. Its not fair that HSBC can abdicate responsibility for delay by pointing 
the finger at the sending bank.
As there was no agreement the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached a different conclusion to the investigator and Ill explain why 
bellow.
Cheque for £100,000
Miss K has said that this cheque was a gift from her employer. The third-party bank 
contacted HSBC to say the cheque was reported as theft and shouldnt be presented. In 
view of this I can understand that HSBC didnt present the cheque or credit the account with 
the £100,000. 
Miss K said she doesnt accept there were genuine concerns regarding the cheque. She has 
said the branch manager wouldnt have queried the cheque. But I have seen evidence from 
HSBC that they did have genuine concerns regarding the cheque and that they contacted 
the sending bank who asked HSBC not to present the cheque.
I have considered the comments from the branch manager as they have been reported to us 
by Miss K. As I wasnt there, I cant make a finding on what happened during the 
conversation but from what Ive seen I am still of the opinion that the bank teller was entitled 
to query the cheque because it was for an unusually high amount.
I am aware that there is now a valid Power of Attorney in place for Mr S and so its unlikely 
that the attorney will re-issue the cheque to Miss K.
I have considered whether the banks actions caused Miss K to lose £100,000 and whether 
they should be compensating her for this loss. HSBC were obliged to follow the instructions 
of the third-party bank at the time. If HSBC had then presented the cheque following their 
investigation, I suspect the third-party bank wouldnt have honoured the cheque, so Miss K 
would be in the same position. So, I will not be asking HSBC to compensate Miss K with 
£100.000 she has lost. She may however wish to pursue a claim for this money in court.
Account Blocked
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Miss Ks accounts. UK legislation 
places extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must 
establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and 
there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These obligations override all other obligations. Businesses are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. HSBC has said that Miss Ks 
accounts were blocked to meet these legal requirements.
I appreciate that Miss K has had her accounts frozen since 17 July 2019. And although she 
has had access to her wages since September 2019, she has not been able to access her 
considerable capital and savings. She has told us that this has put a lot of strain on her and 
on her relationship with her fiance. It has been worse when she lost her job and couldnt 
access any money.
At the time of the view HSBC were waiting for the results of the third-party banks review in 
order to conclude their own review. I appreciate that HSBC had to take into consideration 
what the third-party bank may have to say. However, Ms K is HSBCs customer and its 
therefore up to HSBC to conduct their own investigation. In reviewing the information I have 
before me I think HSBC havent been proactive in pursuing this case and this has resulted in 
delays to Ms K accessing her funds. 
I consider that HSBC could have done more to resolve this complaint. I am mindful that Ms K 
has had her accounts blocked for a very long time.
I understand HSBC have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. 
Having looked at the information HSBC originally relied upon, Im satisfied that they were 
complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they blocked Miss Ks accounts. 
However, as I have mentioned I think that there were delays in the review of Miss Ks 
accounts that HSBC are responsible for. 
Having seen the evidence provided by both parties, Im not of the same opinion as HSBC.  
Whilst HSBC is within its right to withhold funds they suspect of originating from fraud and 
investigate their origin, I dont think its fair or reasonable to continue withholding the 
accounts remaining balances from Miss K.
Mrs K has supplied a consistent and compelling testimony as to the provenance of the 
cheque which she attempted to pay into her account as well as the monies remaining in her 
accounts. Miss K has supplied documentation supporting her testimony including 
correspondence from Mr S and a letter from the police officer who conducted the 
investigation following the fraud allegation. These show that Miss K is not the subject of a 
police investigation in respect of the cheque or any other monies. The conclusion of the 
police investigation is that the cheque was voluntarily given, and Mr S knew what he was 
doing when he gave Miss K the cheque for £100,000. The police investigation was 
concluded at the start of August 2019 and Miss K informed the bank a few days later they 
could contact the police for confirmation. 
I find the police evidence persuasive. I have also considered that no other action has been 
taken by Mr Ss family to recover any other funds from Miss K. And without any evidence to 
the contrary, I have no reason to disbelieve the evidence and testimony Miss K has 
provided.
There has been no fraud reported on the balance of the funds remaining in Miss Ks 
accounts. I also note that no further action was taken by the police when they investigated 
the cheque. And Miss K is not being investigated in respect of the balance of funds in her 
accounts. I have seen no evidence that Miss K has defrauded her employer, Mr S of any 
money.
In addition, Miss K has complied with HSBCs investigation, provided evidence when asked 
to do so and has remained consistent in the reasons why she was expecting the money into her account, I think this provides persuasive evidence of her entitlement to the remaining 
funds. And whilst I can understand HSBCs caution, I think Miss K has done all she can in 
these circumstances to prove she was expecting these funds with the only evidence that is 
available to her. 
For the reasons Ive given, I think HSBC should unblock the accounts and return the 
remaining account balances to Miss K and provide interest for the time she has not had the 
benefit of this money.
I think HSBC should also pay Miss K compensation for the delay in reviewing her accounts 
and keeping the accounts blocked for longer than necessary. HSBC should pay Miss K 
£1,000 for the distress caused to her. In deciding on this amount, I have taken into account 
that Ms K was not able to access any money after she lost her job as well as the accounts 
being blocked for over a year.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss K has accepted my provisional decision.
HSBC made the following comments:
HSBC dont agree that TSBs case is closed.
HSBC say although there is no actual fraud report, with talks of legal advice and a 
solicitor this could end up in a civil dispute. If this becomes the case, at the moment 
HSBC say they have done the right thing in trying to protect a potentially vulnerable 
non-HSBC customer.
HSBC are unhappy with the compensation amount proposed. They say that whilst 
they appreciate the blocks have been in place for a long time, HSBC have been 
doing what they can to protect a potentially vulnerable non-customer. They consider 
£500 to be more appropriate amount of compensation.
Putting things right
Ive re considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered again my provisional 
findings in the light of HSBCs response to it.
HSBC have said that TSBs case isnt closed, and they are concerned that this could end up 
in a civil dispute. I have considered this comment. 
I have seen no evidence that the money in Miss Ks accounts was illegitimately obtained or 
that anyone else has a claim on that money. The police were satisfied following their 
investigation.
It is possible that a civil claim will result from the dispute at hand. However, Mr Ss family 
have had a whole year to seek legal advice and issue proceedings to recover any monies 
they consider to belong to them and they havent done so. In the meantime, I dont think its 
fair and reasonable for HSBC to continue to block Miss Ks accounts. Mr Ss family may or 
may not issue civil proceedings. I suspect that if civil proceedings were so clear cut and 
expected they would have been issued by now. I say this because I am aware that Mr Ss 
family have the means to pursue a legal claim if they so wish and its been a year since they 
disputed the cheque. In addition, Miss K is a customer of HSBC and the bank have to take responsibility for how 
they have conducted the complaint. It is for the bank to consider if they have enough 
information to be satisfied that they should continue to block Miss Ks accounts. This is an 
ongoing obligation. My review of the information suggests that there is not enough evidence 
to continue to block Miss Ks accounts. So, I have decided that they should unblock Miss Ks 
accounts.   
HSBC have said that they consider the compensation I have proposed to be excessive. Im 
afraid I disagree. In deciding on the level of compensation I have taken into account that 
although HSBC were entitled to block the account, it remained blocked for too long. This 
delay has made Miss Ks life very difficult especially after she lost her job. So, I think the 
amount of £1,000 is fair in the circumstances.
For all these reasons and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case is remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined my final decision is that I partially uphold Miss Ks complaint 
and I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to do the following:
Unblock the accounts and allow Miss K access to all her money. 
Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple on the balance of both her accounts from 
7 August 2019 to date of settlement.
Pay £1,000 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
them Miss K accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman