DRN-1557421
The complaint
Mr and Ms D have complained about their home insurer Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y 
Reaseguros because following a second water leak being found at their home a second 
excess was charged.
What happened
In February 2018 the mains feed on the bathroom sink at Mr and Ms Ds home failed. It was 
fixed relatively quickly but grout between the bathroom floor tiles was washed away and 
there was damage to the hall and lounge situated below the bathroom. Ocaso accepted a 
claim but it progressed slowly. 
In May 2018, with a schedule of work having recently been completed Ms D noted water in 
the hall again. She also noted the kitchen floor was starting to lift (the kitchen is at the rear of 
the home accessed through the lounge). Ocaso attended and felt the shower over the bath, 
given the design of the bath, was allowing water to escape when the shower was in use. It 
said this was affecting the bathroom floor and likely causing the damage in the kitchen. 
Ocaso accepted liability but said this was a second claim and required Mr and Ms D to pay a 
second excess. 
Ms D paid the second excess but remained unhappy about it. She felt no more work was 
done as a result of the second leak than was always necessary anyway. Ms D said the 
kitchen floor was damaged by the first leak, not the second, and little if any more work had 
been done in the bathroom than had always been necessary. Ocaso disagreed and when it 
wouldnt change its mind Mr and Ms D complained to us. 
Our investigator felt it was likely more work had been necessary as a result of the second 
leak. He felt Ocaso charging a second excess had been reasonable.
Ms D said Ocasos contractor did not complete work detailed on the second schedule, such 
as taking out the bath, but agreed some work was done under the bath. Ocaso confirmed all 
work on the second schedule had been done.  Ms D said that if she had known how little 
work was going to be necessary as a result of the second leak, she would have done it 
herself rather than paying the excess.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Ms Ds policy, like many on the market requires them to pay an excess as the first 
part of any claim. So strictly speaking, regardless of whatever damage has occurred, 
Mr and Ms D are required by the policy to pay an excess.
In practice though, most insurers, where a second incident occurs but no more damage is 
caused, will forego taking a second excess even where a second claim is recorded. To me 
that is treating the customer fairly  because it isnt going to cost the insurer any more to 
deal with the situation now that a second incident has occurred because the damage already 
existing from the first incident hasnt been made any worse. But difficulties in this approach 
can arise when the policyholder believes no more damage has been done, but the insurer 
thinks there has and is, therefore, not prepared to forego charging the second excess. That 
is the case here. Ive looked closely then at the reports of the two incidents and the damage 
which was reported/found to determine whether Ocasos insistence on taking the second 
excess was fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.
If the only work added to the claim following the second incident was that in the kitchen then 
I might have been minded to depart from our investigators findings and say Ocaso had 
unfairly taken a second excess. Having taken note of what occurred during both claims, as 
well as the layout of the house, I understand why Ms D so adamantly believes the damage 
to the kitchen floor was most likely caused by the first leak. I think its no more than a 
coincidence that it wasnt found until after the first schedule was done. But the problem here 
for Mr and Ms D, in terms of having had to pay a second excess, I think, is to do with the 
bathroom.
Our investigator noted the details of the bathroom repair in the first and second schedules. 
There is definitely more work detailed for the bathroom in the second schedule than in the 
first. In the second the bath is to be taken out and it seems this was to allow the flooring 
underneath to be replaced. Ms D says most of this extra work wasnt actually done. Ocaso 
says it was. Ive not seen any independent evidence which might allow me to conclude 
which party is most likely correct in this respect. But Ms D does accept that some repairs 
under the bath were completed. On balance Im satisfied more work was likely needed in the 
bathroom as a result of the second issue than would have been necessary just following the 
first incident.
I realise it is disappointing for Mr and Ms D to have paid a second excess and feel like 
theyve received little for it. I understand that, with hindsight, theyd rather not have 
proceeded with a second claim. But for me to reasonably require that Ocaso refunds the 
second excess Id have to be satisfied that its most likely that there was no damage or 
repair necessary only as a result of the latterly discovered leak from the shower over the 
bath. Having considered everything Im not satisfied that is the case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Ocaso SA, Compania de 
Seguros y Reaseguros.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman