DRN-1510679
 
The complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about 5 six-month instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr C between 
April 2016 and November 2016. This is a summary of Mr Cs lending history from Sunny.
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 02/04/2016 21/09/2016 200
2 08/09/2016 20/10/2017 450
3 12/11/2016 20/10/2017 300
4 15/11/2016 20/10/2017 200
5 30/11/2016 20/10/2017 200
 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint in part and thought loans 4 onwards shouldnt have 
been given. Sunny disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Sunny has told us about the affordability and creditworthiness checks it carried out. I think 
these were proportionate for loans 1 to 3. It has provided a summary of the information it 
gathered, and from that I cant see anything that suggests it should have made different 
lending decisions. So I dont think it was wrong to give Mr C loans 1 to 3.
But I agree with the adjudicator that Sunny should have declined Mr Cs applications from 
loan 4 onwards. She said that the lender should have stopped lending at this stage as by 
November 2016 Mr C had two loans outstanding with Sunny, as well as others with different 
short-term lenders. And this should have alerted Sunny to the likelihood that Mr C was 
having problems managing his money. So Sunny should have stopped lending as it was 
unlikely Mr C would be able to sustainably repay this and any subsequent loans.   
Sunny disagreed, saying it allowed customers to take out up to four loans at any one time to 
give them flexibility and more freedom to manage their finances. And it had asked Mr C 
about all his expenses including any short-term lending commitments. Its checks showed 
loan 4 left Mr C with a reasonable amount of disposable income and so was affordable. Also, 
it said that if its checks show a customer has four or more short term loans (including any 
with Sunny) it would decline the loan application. 
I have considered Sunnys comments. I think its fair to argue that concurrent loans with 
Sunny are not automatically a sign of problems managing money, although they could be in 
some circumstances. I do think though that repeatedly taking out new loans might warrant 
more comprehensive checks before agreeing to lend. And in this case, as Mr C had two 
loans outstanding and it was his fourth request to borrow in seven months, I think Sunny 
should have increased the level of checks it was carrying out at loan 4 - and done more to 
independently check Mr Cs financial position. 
Had Sunny carried out proportionate checks for loan 4 it would most likely have shown that 
Mr C was having problems managing his money. We asked Mr C for copies of his credit file 
and bank statements, so we could understand what better checks would most likely have shown Sunny.  I am not saying Sunny had to use bank statements just that this could have 
been one way to better understand Mr Cs financial position.
Mr Cs credit file shows in addition to the two loans he had with Sunny he had at least four 
other active short term loans with different lenders when he applied for loan 4. And his bank 
statements from the time before his application show frequent use of short term lenders, as 
well as constant use of his overdraft facility.  Had Sunny carried out better checks I think it 
would have concluded that it was unlikely Mr C could sustainably repay loan 4. So it should 
have stopped lending to Mr C at this point. It follows I think Sunny was wrong to give loans 4 
and 5 to Mr C. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 4 and 5 onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Cs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding this complaint in part from loan 4 onwards. 
Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) must put things right as Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman