DRN-2774143
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, made errors during 
their mortgage application which led to them losing out on the purchase of a property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O applied, via a broker, for a mortgage with Halifax. The purchase price of the 
property they were buying was £285,000.
Halifax issued a mortgage offer in April 2020 confirming it was willing to lend £242,250  
85% of the value of the property.
A survey, commissioned by Mr and Mrs O, indicated that some remedial work was required 
to the property. As a result, they agreed an allowance with the vendors to cover these costs
The conveyancing solicitor, acting for Mr and Mrs O, informed Halifax of this. Halifax wrote to 
the conveyancer saying that this arrangement was not acceptable to it on 16 June 2020.  
Mr and Mrs O then instead agreed a formal reduction to the purchase price with the vendor. 
They agreed to reduce the purchase price by £4,520 and informed Halifax.
On 27 June 2020 Halifax wrote to the conveyancer again, in response to this new 
arrangement. It said the change to the purchase price now agreed did not affect the lending 
so it wouldnt need to issue a revised mortgage offer.
Halifax then informed Mr and Mrs Os broker, on 4 July 2020, that a revised mortgage offer 
would actually be needed.
Mr and Mrs O complained to Halifax about this  as it had previously informed their solicitor 
that no changes would be needed. They also proceeded with arranging a new mortgage 
offer, to allow the purchase to go through.
Halifax issued a new mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs Os broker on 13 July 2020. This 
confirmed it was willing to lend £238,405. Halifax says it also sent a copy to Mr and Mrs O 
and their solicitor. Mr and Mrs O have said they and their solicitor did not receive this. They 
contacted Halifax several times in the days after this to chase and request further copies. 
Theyve said that each time they were told the offer had been re-sent but it was still not 
received. The offer documents were finally received on 17 July 2020.
Mr and Mrs O then attempted to arrange completion of the purchase via their solicitor. 
However, the vendor withdrew from the sale.
Mr and Mrs O raised a further complaint with Halifax. They said, in addition to being unhappy 
that a new mortgage offer had been required at all  as it had previously been indicated this 
wasnt necessary  they were also unhappy with how long it had taken for this to be 
provided. And they said that these errors by Halifax had directly led to the property purchase 
falling through. They said to resolve matters they wanted Halifax to refund costs theyd 
incurred  including for surveys and some legal fees  and to make a payment to address 
the distress caused by this.
Halifax agreed that it had made an error as it said the letter of 27 June 2020, saying 
everything could go ahead without a new mortgage offer, was incorrect and should not have 
been sent. But it said it hadnt done anything wrong by requiring a new mortgage offer, as 
the terms of the purchase had changed. And it had informed Mr and Mrs Os broker of this 
on 4 July 2020. It also felt it had then acted fairly by providing the revised mortgage offer at 
short notice. To address the error made it offered to pay £300 for the upset caused  and I 
understand it credited this amount to Mr and Mrs Os account. But it didnt think it should 
have to pay any of the costs involved as these would always have been incurred.
Mr and Mrs O did not accept Halifaxs response. They said they were unhappy with the 
investigation carried out, felt the offer made was derisory and were unhappy that an 
explanation for why the error happened hadnt been provided. So, they asked our service to 
look into their complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into things. He agreed that the letter sent on 27 June 2020 
had been sent in error. And he acknowledged there mayve been delays with getting the 
revised mortgage offer to all parties. But he felt that the offer already made was reasonable, 
as he didnt think he could fairly say Halifax had caused the purchase to fall through.
Mr and Mrs O did not agree with the investigators opinion. In summary they felt the 
explanation of his findings, and what evidence was relied upon, was unclear. They said that 
part of the complaint remained unanswered  that theyd asked for a clear explanation of 
how the error with the letter had been made. They disagreed that the errors by Halifax had 
not been the cause of the purchase falling through. And they felt the investigator, like Halifax 
previously, had not considered the significant distress caused by this, particularly to Mrs O, 
in concluding that £300 was fair.
As Mr and Mrs O did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly reiterate the role of our service. We are an informal dispute 
resolution service  an alternative to a court. And it is our role to decide what we think is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of an individual complaint. Ive read and taken into 
account all of the information provided by both parties in reaching my decision. If Ive not 
reflected something thats been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem 
it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, 
but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This 
also means, if I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to 
every question raised, I wont necessarily do so, if I think I can give a fair answer overall 
without it.Halifax provided a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs O in April 2020 confirming it was willing to 
lend them a set amount. This was based on a number of factors, including the purchase 
price that theyd agreed for the property, and the level of borrowing in comparison to that 
(the loan to value ratio). 
This purchase price was later reduced  changing the parameters of the transaction. And, in 
the context of the mortgage, increasing the loan to value ratio above 85%.
Halifax says that this meant a new mortgage offer was required  altering the level of lending 
to bring it back to 85% of the new purchase price. I dont think this was unreasonable and I 
dont think Halifax has made an error by requiring this. And I think this would always have 
been needed when the parameters of the purchase changed  and wasnt caused by the 
letter that was then sent in error.
It isnt in dispute that Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs Os solicitors on 27 June 2020 saying a 
new offer would not be required. Halifax has said that this was a mistake. And I accept that it 
was. Mr and Mrs O have said they want an explanation of how this mistake happened. But I 
dont think I need to know that to make a decision here. It has been accepted that an error 
has been made and that letter should not have been issued.
Mr and Mrs O have questioned why Halifax felt it didnt have to honour what was said in that 
letter. As Ive said the letter was sent in error and Im satisfied, after the purchase price was 
reduced a new mortgage offer would always have been required. I dont think it wouldve 
been reasonable for Halifax to have to waive this requirement because of something it has 
said in error.
The impact of this error is that Mr and Mrs O thought a new mortgage offer would not be 
required  until Halifax shared the correct information about this a week later in an email to 
their broker on 4 July 2020. I dont doubt though that it was upsetting to learn that the 
previous position was incorrect, and that given how far the purchase had progressed this 
caused them inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs O have said that the requirement for a revised mortgage offer was discussed 
with their broker on 7 July. And Ive seen system notes and emails showing that their broker 
discussed this with Halifax between 7 and 9 July  making a complaint on their behalf at the 
same time. Ive also seen a copy of a revised mortgage offer dated 13 July 2020 confirming 
the terms on which Halifax was now willing to lend. I dont think the time taken to make this 
new offer was unreasonable.
Halifax has said, and provided system notes to show, it sent a copy of the new mortgage 
offer on 13 July 2020 to Mr and Mrs O, their broker and their solicitor. And I understand that 
this was received by the broker. Mr and Mrs O have said that they and their solicitor however 
didnt receive this new mortgage offer until 17 July 2020. I have no reason to doubt this. I 
can see that they chased Halifax for this document several times - which I dont think they 
wouldve done if it had been received. But Ive also seen evidence that suggests Halifax was 
trying to send this document  and it doesnt appear the contact information it used changed. 
Its unclear why the first couple of attempts to do so failed. But Im not sure I can say this 
was due to an error by Halifax.
So, in summary, I think Halifax did make an error when it said on 27 June 2020 that a new 
mortgage offer would not be required. But beyond that, Im not sure that it did anything else 
wrong. While something does seem to have gone wrong with getting the new mortgage offer 
to all of the relevant parties, Im not sure this was due to an error by Halifax. Regardless 
though, as an error has been made by Halifax, Ive thought about what the fair way to put 
things right is.The purchase of the property subsequently fell through. And Mr and Mrs O feel this is due to 
Halifaxs actions and that it wouldve been successful had these mistakes not occurred. But 
Im not sure I agree. It isnt clear why the purchase fell through but, as Ive said, Im satisfied 
a new mortgage offer would always have been needed when the parameters of the 
purchase changed. There was a delay for the week or so that Mr and Mrs O understood this 
wouldnt be required. But, while I know Mr and Mrs O will be disappointed and do not agree, 
I dont think I can reasonably say on balance that this alone was the cause of the purchase 
not going ahead.
Mr and Mrs O have asked for a number of costs to be refunded to them  including fees for 
the survey carried out by Halifax as part of the mortgage application, the survey they carried 
out themselves and some legal costs. But from what Ive seen these fees were always 
payable and were not incurred due to the new mortgage offer being required or the letter 
being sent in error. They were paid as part of the application process, and there was a risk, 
that if the purchase did not go ahead, for whatever reason, that they would be lost. So, as I 
dont think these were additional fees caused by the requirement for a new mortgage offer, 
or by the delay caused by the letter sent in error, and I dont think Halifax is responsible for 
the purchase failing, I dont think itd be reasonable for Halifax to have to refund these.
As Ive said I dont doubt that it was upsetting for Mr and Mrs O to learn that there was an 
issue with their mortgage application, particularly at a late stage of the process, and that to 
try and address this was inconvenient. Mr O has said that this particularly impacted Mrs O. 
And again, I appreciate how stressful buying a property and the associated process can be  
particularly when something goes wrong. But Im conscious that, while Halifax did incorrectly 
lead Mr and Mrs O to believe, for over a week, that no further action was required, the 
correct position was then set out to them. And Halifax then acted quickly and reasonably to 
assist. I think a lot of the upset and distress caused stemmed from the purchase 
subsequently falling through  which again I dont think I can say was Halifaxs responsibility. 
So, taking everything into account, while I again I appreciate this will likely come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs O, I think the £300 already offered by Halifax for the upset 
caused by its error is fair and reasonable. So, I dont require it to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint as I feel the offer 
already made by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, is fair.
I understand that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has already credited the amount 
of £300 to Mr and Mrs O. However, if this is incorrect, it should now do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman