DRN-2381710
The complaint
Mrs R complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim under her travel 
insurance policy. 
All references to Mrs R include, where relevant, her representative Mrs B. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to handle claims. 
What happened
Mrs R bought an annual travel insurance policy online in August 2019. The policy covered 
Mrs Rs declared medical condition of arrhythmia.  
The policy was bought via an independent intermediary (who Ill call S). Cover under the 
policy was provided by Great Lakes (which means Great Lakes underwrote the policy and 
was the business responsible for the decision to decline Mrs Rs claim). 
Unfortunately, while on holiday abroad, Mrs R fell ill and was admitted to hospital. Great 
Lakes was notified about the claim but, after requesting Mrs Rs medical records, it said her 
claim wouldnt be covered under her policy. 
Great Lakes said this was because Mrs R also suffered from a number of other medical 
conditions, was taking medication and was awaiting consultations and procedures which it 
hadnt been told about when the policy was purchased. Great Lakes said, if Mrs R had told it 
about these issues, it would not have offered her a travel insurance policy at all. However, 
Great Lakes said Mrs R was entitled to a full refund of the premiums shed paid for the 
policy. 
Unhappy, Mrs R complained to Great Lakes before bringing the matter to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think Mrs R needed to 
tell Great Lakes about all the issues it had mentioned. So, she asked Great Lakes to confirm 
what it would have done if Mrs R had told it about only some of her other medical conditions.
Great Lakes disputed our investigators conclusions but said, in any event, it still wouldnt 
have offered Mrs R a travel insurance policy. Our investigator then said she thought Great 
Lakes hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by turning down Mrs Rs claim. 
Mrs R didnt accept our investigators opinion. She said she had evidence that Great Lakes 
would have offered Mrs R an insurance policy and Great Lakes had subsequently offered to 
renew her policy. She also said shed been told by S in 2015 that one of her medical 
conditions didnt need to be declared. 
As a resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R. I know she has been very unwell, and I appreciate the medical 
bills she incurred abroad were expensive. But I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by turning down her claim and Ill explain why. 
Mrs R was asked questions about her health when she bought this policy. So, I think the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is relevant and I 
think its fair and reasonable to apply the principles set out in this legislation to Mrs Rs claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a policyholder fails to take reasonable care not to misrepresent 
facts which an insurer has asked about and, without that misrepresentation, the insurer can 
show they would not have entered into the contract at all or would only have done so on 
different terms. 
The standard of care required is that of a reasonable consumer and an insurers remedies 
for a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA apply regardless of whether the medical 
condition claimed for relates to the medical condition which hasnt been declared. 
When Mrs R bought this policy online, she was asked if any traveller on the policy had;
ain the last two years, suffered from any medical or psychological conditionsfor 
which theyve received treatment, been prescribed medication, or attended any 
consultations, investigations, or check-ups
bever suffered from or received treatment, investigations or test for:
Heart attack, angina, chest pains(s) or any other heart conditions
High blood pressure, blood clots, raised cholesterol, aneurysm or any 
circulatory disease
Any form of stroke, transient ischemic attack (mini-stroke) or brain 
haemorrhage 
Mrs R answered yes and went on to declare arrhythmia. But Great Lakes says Mrs R 
should have declared other medical conditions too. 
Great Lakes originally said it thought Mrs R should also have told it about the following:
Alzheimers disease/dementia;
Stress incontinence;
Low Mood;
Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease;
Cholesterol levels;
Emphysema;
Respiratory infection;
Hypothyroidism. 
In deciding whether I think Mrs R took reasonable care when answering the questions Great 
Lakes asked, Ive taken into account her medical records and what Ive been told about her 
medical history. Mrs Rs medical records show a dementia care plan was reviewed and agreed in February 
2018. A dementia care plan is mentioned in Mrs Rs medical records again in January 2019, 
and she was also referred to a Speech and Language Therapy Service for a swallow 
assessment at this time. I therefore think Mrs R attended consultations about her 
Alzheimers disease in the two years prior to buying the policy, which she should reasonably 
have told Great Lakes about in response to the questions asked. 
I understand Mrs Rs consultant previously told her that an Alzheimers diagnosis wasnt 
something that would need to be declared on an insurance policy. But, its up to an individual 
insurer to decide what risk it is prepared to accept in return for a payment of a premium. 
Great Lakes, when offering a policy to Mrs R, asked about any consultations Mrs R had for 
any medical conditions in the previous two years. It was for Mrs R (or the person buying the 
policy on her behalf) to take reasonable care to answer the specific questions she was 
asked accurately and honestly. 
Ive also taken into account what Mrs R has said about information she was given by S in 
2015. Great Lakes and S are different businesses, with different obligations to Mrs R. Great 
Lakes isnt responsible for any information (incorrect or otherwise) provided to Mrs R by S. 
Its entirely possible that the insurance policy Mrs R held in 2015 may have been provided by 
an underwriter other than Great Lakes who had different criteria about what medical 
conditions it was prepared to insure. Annual travel insurance policies require medical 
conditions to be declared every year at renewal. This is because the provider of the policy, 
as well as the risk which the policy provider is prepared to accept and at what price, can 
change. 
So, Mrs Rs comments on these points dont change my decision that I think she should 
reasonably have told Great Lakes about her Alzheimers diagnosis. 
Mrs Rs medical records show a consultation for stress incontinence in September 2017, 
when her medication was noted to no longer be working. Mrs R was referred to an 
incontinence clinic two months later and her medication was subsequently stopped on the 
advice of the incontinence team. So, Im satisfied Mrs R also had consultations and/or 
investigations for stress incontinence within 2 years of the travel insurance policy being 
purchased, which I think she should reasonably have told Great Lakes about. 
Mrs Rs medical records show she was on a repeat prescription for low mood, as well as 
cholesterol medication. Mrs R says the former is associated with her Alzheimers, was 
prescribed after a family bereavement and was never reviewed. In relation to the latter, 
Mrs R says her cholesterol levels are within the normal range and are not something which 
would require medical attention. Ive also taken into account the letter from Mrs Rs GP 
dated 24 November 2020 referring to Mrs Rs cholesterol readings. 
But the questions which Mrs R was asked included whether she had been prescribed 
medication for any medical condition in the two years prior to the policy being purchased. 
So, regardless of the reasons for, or the background to these prescriptions, I think a 
reasonable consumer would have realised these were things which Great Lakes wanted to 
know about in response to the questions asked.  
I also think Mrs R should have told Great Lakes she suffered from respiratory infections 
which she was prescribed medication for in the two years prior to taking out the policy. 
Mrs Rs medical records show she had consultations and was given antibiotics for 
respiratory tract infections (one of which was described as acute) in both October 2017 and 
September 2018. I understand Mrs R says these arose after annual flu inoculations, but 
Great Lakes asked about any medical conditions Mrs R experienced - regardless of their 
likely cause. However, Im not persuaded Mrs R failed to take reasonable care when she didnt tell Great 
Lakes about gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD), emphysema or hyperthyroidism. 
While Mrs Rs medical records refer to medication for GORD, Mrs R says she was never told
she had this condition. Mrs Rs GP has written a letter dated 11 October 2019, a copy of
which Ive provided to Great Lakes, which says Mrs R has no known history of any
indigestion or stomach ulcers. This contradicts information contained in Mrs Rs medical
records which clearly states Mrs R experienced heartburn and reflux, but Im prepared to
accept the GPs letter as evidence that Mrs R was unaware of any diagnosis of GORD. So, I
dont think she failed to take reasonable care when she didnt tell Great Lakes about this
condition.  
Mrs Rs medical records mention emphysema in the two years before the policy was
taken out. However, the letter from Mrs Rs GP dated 11 October 2019 says mild
emphysematous changes were noted on imaging but Mrs R has never been prescribed any
inhalers for this and has no coded diagnosis of COPD or Emphysema. Based on this letter, I
dont think Mrs R needed to declare the condition of emphysema to Great Lakes. 
I also dont think Mrs R should reasonably have declared hypothyroidism. I accept what 
Mrs R has told us about viewing the blood tests she underwent in July 2019 as routine. And, 
although one of the blood results was noted as abnormal and Mrs Rs medical records refer 
to subclinical hypothyroidism, Mrs R says she was told this would not make her unwell but 
that she would feel tired and the condition would not be treated. In these circumstances, Im 
not persuaded Mrs R failed to take reasonable care when she didnt tell Great Lakes about 
this issue.
I dont intend to make any finding on the consultations which Mrs R was awaiting, as Great 
Lakes hasnt included these in the retrospective screenings it has provided, and I dont think 
they make any difference to the outcome of the complaint.
In summary, this means I think Mrs R should have disclosed the following medical conditions 
to Great Lakes, in addition to arrhythmia: 
Alzheimers disease;
Stress incontinence;
Low mood;
Cholesterol levels;
Respiratory infections.
If Mrs R had told Great Lakes about these conditions Im satisfied, based on the detailed 
evidence Ive seen from Great Lakes, that it wouldnt have offered Mrs R a travel insurance 
policy. 
I understand Great Lakes offered to renew Mrs Rs original policy, but this doesnt 
demonstrate it would have been prepared to cover the medical conditions which I think she 
should have declared in August 2019. 
Ive considered the information Mrs R has provided explaining why she believes she would 
have been able to purchase cover for her medical conditions. But the initial screenshots 
(showing cover available for a cost of £944.44) dont include all the medical conditions 
mentioned above which I think Mrs R should have told Great Lakes about. Mrs R has also provided a validation certificate dated November 2020 from a dummy 
purchase confirming cover for the medical conditions which our investigator said she ought 
reasonably to have told Great Lakes about. Ive carefully considered this evidence and I 
understand why Mrs R feels this demonstrates she would have been able to buy a policy 
with Great Lakes which covered her medical conditions. 
However, Great Lakes has provided confirmation that its underwriting criteria (i.e. the level of 
risk it is prepared to offer cover for  which Great Lakes is entitled to decide upon annually) 
has changed since Mrs R bought her original policy in August 2019. Im satisfied that, at the 
time Mrs R bought her policy, Great Lakes wouldnt have offered her any cover for the above 
listed medical conditions which I think she should reasonably have declared. 
Based on the evidence Great Lakes has provided, I dont think Great Lakes would have 
provided cover to anyone in the same circumstances as Mrs R. So, Im satisfied she hasnt 
been treated unfairly. 
Overall, I think Mrs R made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. This means  
regardless of whether the misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless or careless under the 
legislation  Great Lakes is entitled to decline Mrs Rs claim and I dont think it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by doing so.
Great Lakes has said Mrs R is entitled to a full refund of the premiums she paid for her 
policy. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Great Lakes has said Mrs R 
would need to contact S to request this  but the underwriter, not the seller, of the policy is 
the business responsible for refunding premiums.  
Ive taken into account Mrs Rs comments about the level of assistance given to her while 
she was abroad. I can understand why Mrs R wished to return on her originally booked flight. 
However, Great Lakes considered Mrs R to be at high risk of re-admission to hospital and 
when taking this together with its concerns about whether the claim was covered, decided to 
recommend repatriation. It may be that Great Lakes could have expressed its position more 
empathetically, but I cant fairly say Great Lakes acted unreasonably when dealing with 
Mrs Rs claim based on the evidence available to it. 
I wish Mrs R and her family well for the future but, for the reasons Ive explained above, I 
wont be asking Great Lakes to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Great Lakes has already made an offer to refund Mrs R the premiums she paid for her policy 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman