DRN-2730272
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax closed his account and 
registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr D says that he was the victim here and that the marker is affecting his ability to open an 
account elsewhere.
Halifax says it received a report that money paid into Mr Ds account was fraudulently 
obtained. This had then been transferred on using mobile banking and there was also a 
purchase authorised at a merchant. It said that Mr D had initially denied any involvement. 
But when it told Mr D it wouldnt remove the marker he then said he had been contacted on 
social media and that hed been told he would make some money from this. It didnt think he 
had been an unwitting participant.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. There were four credits 
paid into the account on 16 August 2020 and almost all the money was withdrawn or spent 
that day. He said that it was clear Mr D had told Halifax different things. And that when he 
discussed what happened with our investigator he had told him he had been threatened from 
the start  not that he had been offered money and may later have been pressured. Mr D 
had told him that the only information he had provided to the person who contacted him on 
social media was his online banking information. But Halifax had shown that the transfers 
had been made using Mr Ds device. That meant hed either given that to the fraudster or 
made them himself. And also, a payment of £469 to a retailer had been made with Mr Ds 
card details and card verification number. At no point had he said he had provided this. The 
final transfer from the account to an existing payee of £11 on 27 August 2020 was of interest 
because he couldnt see why a fraudster would have given that person any money.
Our investigator said he didnt think that Mr D had been truthful with this service or Halifax 
and that was because he had been involved in the activity. So, he considered Halifax had 
grounds to add the marker.
Mr D didnt agree. He said that he never gave the person his card. He explained that the 
transfer of £11 was when he was asked by Halifax where he wanted the remaining money in 
this account to go. He didnt think his age of 17 and vulnerability at the time had been taken 
into account and said that he was scared and thought that the third party, who knew his 
address, would visit him at home. He made a mistake and the implications for him are 
significant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Halifax needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
I wont be able to say exactly what happened but Im thinking about what is most likely. It is 
clear that Mr Ds account was used for the receipt and then dispersal of fraudulent funds. 
The issue I need to decide on is whether he was a witting participant in this.
Mr D initially reported this as fraud and his account was blocked from the evening of 16 
August 2020. It was only when Halifax noted how the payments were made using his device 
and card and said it wouldnt be removing the marker that he changed this version of events. 
As our investigator set out he first said that he had been contacted on social media and told 
he could make some money. He went on to say he had been pressurised and then 
threatened when he learnt that Halifax was still not changing its position on the complaint. 
He has told this service that he was threatened from the outset.
I note he does have confirmation of reporting this to police in a letter dated 24 December 
2020. There is no further information about the outcome of that.
If what Mr D says is now right it still doesnt explain how the payments were made using his 
device. As our investigator says either he used it himself or he gave it to the person making 
them which meant he had direct contact with that person. And again, he is adamant he didnt 
make the payment of £469 to the merchant and also that he hadnt given his card details to a 
fraudster. That doesnt stack up and means that his version of events isnt a credible one. I 
take into account that he could have been scared but I think hes now had the full opportunity 
to give a plausible and complete explanation of what happened, and he hasnt done so. I put 
little weight on the payment of £11 on 27 August 2020. As his account was by then blocked I 
think that what he says could be an explanation for that. 
But I dont think that Mr D was a victim. He hasnt persuaded me that he wasnt a participant 
in this fraud, that he didnt expect to gain from it (as he at one point indicated he could) or 
that he has now given a full and plausible explanation of what really happened. So, I think 
Halifax had grounds to add the marker and close his account.
Halifax says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr D received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether Halifax was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Halifax needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ds account of events and the evidence Halifax has provided, Im 
satisfied that Halifax had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming 
to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr D received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Halifax at the 
time.- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Halifax had grounds to believe that Mr D had used fraudulently obtained funds based 
on the evidence it had.
I understand the implications of a CIFAS marker, and that Mr D says he is having difficulty 
opening another account. But I dont have a reasonable basis to require Halifax to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman