DRN-2762639
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt give him clear information about the 
implications of taking out additional borrowing with a five-year fixed interest rate product. He 
didnt know hed have to repay the additional borrowing to re-mortgage with another lender. 
Mr B had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) which hed like Barclays to refund.
What happened
Mr B took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2015, with a five-year fixed interest rate product. 
He took out additional borrowing in 2017, also with a five-year fixed interest rate product.
In 2020 Mr Bs original five-year product expired and he decided to re-mortgage with another 
lender that offered better interest rates. However, the five-year product he took out in 2017, 
which applied to the additional borrowing, hadnt expired.
Mr B says he wasnt told hed have to repay the additional borrowing in order to re-mortgage 
with another lender. Repaying the additional borrowing meant he paid an ERC to Barclays of 
about £2,000. He asks that Barclays refunds the ERC.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out what I thought about this complaint. In 
summary, I said Barclays made the basis on which Mr B took out the additional borrowing 
clear. I said the ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage offer and Barclays was entitled to 
apply it when Mr B repaid his mortgage. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said I hadnt understood his complaint. He said he wasnt disputing the 
ERC. He was complaining about the portability of the mortgage: that he could refinance with 
Barclays without penalty but Barclays wouldnt let him port his original loan to another 
lender. Mr B also said it was unfair for Barclays to club the two parts of his mortgage 
together when it suited it (such as when he wanted to move to another lender) but separate 
them when it came to applying the 10% allowance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2015. In 2017 he applied for additional borrowing 
for home improvements. Barclays recommended a five-year fixed interest rate product. The 
product Mr B took out included an ERC which applied to the additional borrowing until May 
2022. Mr B repaid the mortgage in April 2020. I think Barclays was entitled to apply the ERC, 
which Mr B had agreed to when he took out the product.
Mr B says its not fair for Barclays to apply the ERC. First, he said he wasnt told the 
additional borrowing was secured by a first charge. He said he didnt know hed have to 
repay it in order to re-mortgage with a different lender. Second, he said the 10% ERC free 
allowance should apply to the whole mortgage balance not just the additional borrowing. 
Third, since my provisional decision, Mr B said Barclays was unfair not to allow him to port 
the original mortgage loan to another lender. He said he thought hed be able to do this if the 
additional borrowing matched the 33-year mortgage term.
In some circumstances I might find it fair to require a lender to waive or refund an ERC. 
Having considered everything Mr B has said, thats not the case here. Ive explained why 
below.
When Mr B took out his mortgage with Barclays in 2015 the loan (the money he borrowed 
from Barclays) was secured by a first legal charge on his property. When he took out 
additional borrowing in 2017 this was also secured by the same first legal charge. The 
mortgage offer says: This additional borrowing will be secured by the existing first legal 
charge over the property in favour of [Barclays].
I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr B wasnt told the additional borrowing would be 
secured by the first legal charge Barclays already had on the property. This was set out 
clearly in the mortgage offer. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr B was misled about this.
The mortgage offer says Mr B can repay 10% of the additional borrowing each year without 
paying an ERC. I dont think its reasonable to say that Barclays should have applied the 
10% to the whole mortgage balance so that Mr B could avoid paying the ERC when he 
repaid the additional borrowing.
Barclays recommended the additional borrowing and the mortgage product in 2017, so it 
needed to check it was suitable for Mr Bs needs. Barclays provided its notes of the 
discussion between Mr B and its mortgage adviser in April 2017. The notes say Mr B 
intended to stay in the property for 2 years and nine months. No reason is given as to why 
Mr B might then move out of the property. In fact he didnt move out, and hasnt said he had 
any plans to do so. He remained at the property and re-mortgaged with another provider 
three years later, in April 2020.
Barclays notes also recorded that Mr B wanted stability as he didnt want rate rises to affect 
his lifestyle. He wanted a five-year product because he wanted to review the mortgage at 
that time. And he wasnt concerned about ERCs as he had no plans to make overpayments.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr B told the mortgage adviser he intended to re-
mortgage within 5 years, that he told the mortgage adviser he wanted to be able to re-
mortgage without repaying the additional borrowing, or that he was misled about being able 
to do so. Overall, I dont think Barclays could have known that Mr B would later want to 
refinance the first part of his mortgage and leave the additional borrowing in place.
I think the basis on which Mr B took out the additional borrowing  that it was secured on his 
property by a first legal charge  was clear. I think the ERC was clearly set out in the 
mortgage offer. I think Barclays was entitled to apply the ERC when the mortgage (including 
the additional borrowing) was repaid and I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require Barclays to refund it.
Mr B said in his response to my provisional decision that hed thought the mortgage was 
portable. The mortgage offers for Mr Bs original mortgage loan and the additional borrowing 
say if Mr B bought another property to move to, he could transfer (port) the mortgage rate to 
a new mortgage on the purchased property. This was subject to conditions. However, Mr B 
wasnt buying a new property to move to, and so this provision isnt relevant to the outcome 
here. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman