The complaint
Mrs J says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
her. Mrs J says she was a regular user of short-term lending and had to borrow more to 
meet the repayments. Mrs J has told us the lending has had a lasting impact on her 
wellbeing.     
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mrs J between 
November 2013 and March 2014. Mrs Js borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
repaymentDeferrals
1 18/11/2013 28/02/2014 1 £450.00 £528.75 3
2 01/03/2014 29/04/2014 1 £700.00 £910.00 1
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Js complaint and thought loan two shouldnt have been 
given because the repayment represented a significant proportion of Mrs Js monthly 
income. 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicator. It said the loan repayment left Mrs J with sufficient 
disposable income and Mrs J hadnt told it of any financial difficulty. It asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
DRN-1544260But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mrs J didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loan one shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont 
be making a decision about this lending. But the loan was part of the borrowing relationship 
Mrs J had with Mr Lender. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the 
other loan she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Js complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Loan one was originally scheduled for repayment in one instalment ten days after it was 
taken. However, the loan was rolled-over in return for the payment of additional interest. This 
happened three times. Mrs J eventually repaid the capital in February 2014. 
Mrs J then returned the same day as repaying loan one for loan two. The amount borrowed 
increased from £450 to £700 and the term agreed was 29 days with a repayment of £910. 
By Mrs J choosing to defer her repayment three times on loan one and then returning for a 
higher amount of borrowing the same day loan one was repaid, could potentially have been 
an indication that she may have been struggling financially. Mr Lender has told us of the checks it made before agreeing to loan two which it says were 
proportionate to the borrowing. I note Mrs Js monthly income was recorded as being £2,200 
per month and outgoings were £900. This left Mr J with a disposable income of £1,300 so Mr 
Lender concluded the lending was affordable for Mrs J. But I disagree. I think the repayment 
represented a significant enough proportion of Mrs Js income that it was unlikely that she 
could afford to make the repayment in a sustainable way. And Mrs J has told us that she had 
to borrow further to make her repayment, so I think the lending being unsustainable for her 
was likely. So, I dont think loan two should have been given.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loan two and Mr Lender 
should put things right.
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs J paid on loan two;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan two from Mrs Js credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Js complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman