DRN-3133036
The complaint
Mr R complained that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (trading as Fund Ourselves) acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr R took out two Fund Ourselves loans as follows:
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsAmountMonthly  
Repayment
1 20/03/2021 4/05/2021 4 £170 £82.96
2 5/05/2021 Outstanding 4 £250 £124.50
Mr R mainly said that he hadnt worked for around eight weeks or so before taking out the 
loan and his work record had been erratic for the previous five months and he was claiming 
universal credit. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and Fund Ourselves told us about these loans 
and he didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that the information gathered by the 
lender raised concerns that the loans wouldnt be affordable or that Fund Ourselves saw 
anything that shouldve prompted it to do more checks before agreeing to lend. And our 
adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr R took, the amounts they were for or the 
period of time he was borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, shouldve shown 
Fund Ourselves he mightve been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Mr R disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to reconsider 
his complaint. In particular, Mr R felt that our adjudicator had needed to look at his 
outgoings more closely and check his bank statements to properly understand his 
financial situation at the time - and he sent us bank statements to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Im sorry Mr R feels our adjudicator didnt investigate the complaint as thoroughly as he 
shouldve done. Id like to reassure Mr R that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons.  
Fund Ourselves provided Mr R with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Fund 
Ourselves needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Fund Ourselves was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr R before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Rs complaint. 
Fund Ourselves says it relied on information Mr R provided about his monthly income and 
expenditure as well as information obtained from a credit reference agency. And it agreed to 
Mr Rs applications after carrying out a background check to verify what hed said about his 
income. It sent us information showing that it had verified the level of income Mr R had 
declared through it income verification checks with a credit reference agency. It said the 
information it had about Mr R showed that repaying the loans shouldnt become difficult for 
him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
It seems that Mr R had declared his monthly income was £2,400 and his monthly spending, 
including what he was spending on servicing existing debt along with his regular outgoings 
such as rent and travel amounted to £800. So I think its fair to say that this information 
suggested that Mr R was well able to afford this borrowing. 
As this was his first loan with Fund Ourselves, at this early stage, Mr R didn't have any track 
record with the lender that shouldve alerted Fund Ourselves to any underlying money 
problems. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr R provided or the other information 
Fund Ourselves had recorded, which meant that Fund Ourselves shouldve taken more 
steps to check the information Mr R had declared.
From what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of 
this type often have other credit on their record and even sometimes an impaired credit 
history, there wasnt anything that Id expect a lender to be unduly concerned about at this 
stage. Mr R didnt seem to have an excessive amount of credit for someone in his financial 
situation and there werent any indications of any serious money problems shown in his 
credit history such as bankruptcy or county court judgements. It was early in the lending 
relationship and I think the checks were enough for Fund Ourselves to agree to lend. 
So I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 1. 
loan 2
I can see that Mr R took out the second loan around the same time as he repaid loan 1  
and this time he borrowed a bigger loan. But I dont think these things on their own were enough to make Fund Ourselves think that Mr R was becoming increasingly indebted or 
struggling with being over stretched financially.
Fund Ourselves asked Mr R to update the information he provided about his finances each 
time he applied for a new loan. I think its fair to take into account that loan 2 still looked to 
be comfortably affordable for Mr R. He hadnt shown Fund Ourselves any signs that he was 
finding it hard to pay for his borrowing  hed repaid loan 1 early. And the figures hed 
declared, and the information Fund Ourselves had collected, seem to support Fund 
Ourselves lending decision. There wasnt enough in the credit check information that Fund 
Ourselves could see that I think wouldve made it realise that he couldnt afford to pay this 
loan in a sustainable way. And I think it was too soon for Fund Ourselves reasonably to be 
able to identify any particular pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr R was over-
reliant on this type of borrowing or not using the money it lent for its intended purpose of 
providing short-term financial help.
Mr R feels that Fund Ourselves didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve done before 
agreeing to lend to him. But there wasnt any reason for Fund Ourselves to necessarily 
suspect that Mr R had provided incorrect information about his employment status or his 
overall income. 
And at this stage of the lending relationship, and given these loan amounts, I dont think 
proportionate checks wouldve required Fund Ourselves to ask Mr R to prove what he was 
declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to 
say) about his financial circumstances. 
So I dont think Fund Ourselves did anything wrong when it made its lending decisions 
based on the information it had at the time  without asking to see Mr Rs bank statements. 
Im sorry that Mr R has found repaying all his borrowing difficult. And I accept that in reality 
Mr Rs financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided 
or the other information Fund Ourselves obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think that Fund Ourselves did anything 
wrong in deciding to lend to Mr R. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr R but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
I expect Fund Ourselves to continue to work with Mr R and to treat him positively and 
sympathetically if he is continuing to experience financial difficulty. 
I would encourage Mr R to provide details of his financial situation to Fund Ourselves if he 
still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the loan. 
And if Mr R would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if 
he gives us a call. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman