DRN-4373044
The complaint
Mr M complains that esure Insurance Limited held him liable for a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy following an incident. Hes unhappy with its communication throughout the 
claim, that his premiums have increased, and that he couldnt use his passenger as a 
witness. He wants it to reimburse his policy excess and reconsider its liability decision. 
What happened
Mr M was involved in an incident in a car park where he said another driver collided with his 
car. The other driver denied involvement and provided an image of damage to their car 
which they said was pre-existing. 
esure wouldnt accept Mr Ms passengers witness testimony. esure appointed an 
independent arbitrator who said that because of the image of pre-existing damage the other 
driver couldnt be said to be at fault. So esure recorded a fault claim against Mr M, he had to 
pay his policy excess, and his premiums increased at renewal. esure paid Mr M £100 
compensation for its poor communication. But Mr M remained unhappy. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure had 
reasonably declined to accept the passengers testimony as they couldnt be shown to be 
independent. He thought the evidence that esure had to consider was Mr Ms version of 
events and the images of damage to the two cars. He thought the images supported Mr Ms 
version of events, despite the arbitrators opinion. So he thought esure hadnt acted 
reasonably in settling the claim as fault. 
He thought the liability decision meant that Mr M couldnt recover his excess and his No 
Claims Bonus (NCB) had been affected leading to an increase in premiums. So he thought 
esure should change the claim to non-fault, provide Mr M with a letter of indemnity that he 
could show his new insurer, refund his policy excess, reinstate Mr Ms NCB, and pay him 
£100 further compensation. 
esure replied that it was entitled to decide a claim outcome as it saw fit, that it had relied on 
expert evidence that it wouldnt be able to defend the claim in court. It thought the 
Investigators proposed redress was unrealistic. esure asked for an Ombudsmans review, 
so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to esure on 7 September 2023. I summarise my findings:
Mr M said the other driver collided with his parked car, causing damage to it. He said his 
passenger was a witness whilst Mr M had been placing items in the boot at the time of the 
impact. Mr M took images of the damage to the cars. But the other driver denied involvement 
and said the damage to his car was pre-existing. 
The Investigator had already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr M the same as someone else in his position. 
esure is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr M to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr M has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I didnt find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
The evidence that esure had to consider was Mr Ms version of events and images provided 
by both parties. I thought esure reasonably discounted Mr Ms passengers testimony as this 
wouldnt be viewed as independent by a court. 
Mr M said hed reviewed the other drivers image of historic damage at the scene, and he 
thought new damage had been caused that was consistent with damage to his car. He said 
the historic photograph showed damage that was different in shape and there was an 
additional scratch that lined up with his door handle. Our Investigator listed the apparent new 
damage on the left hand front of the other drivers car that didnt show on the historic 
photograph:
A deep scratch to the side of the headlight. 
A scratch from below the headlight.
The washer cap and the panel sitting out of place.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision.
Where there has been a dispute about damage caused, Id often seen that an insurer will 
ask for a consistency report to establish whether or not the claimed damage was likely to 
have been caused in the alleged incident. But esure didnt do this in Mr Ms case. And I 
couldnt see that it asked for any engineering evidence to defend Mr M. 
An engineers consistency report may or may not have supported Mr Ms account. And it 
wasnt for me to decide who caused the damage to Mr Ms car. So I couldnt say whether or 
not such a report would have made a difference.
esure pressed the other insurer to accept liability, but it denied involvement. It said there 
were no independent witnesses or other evidence to show that the other driver had collided 
with Mr Ms car. And it questioned the validity of some of the photographs as they didnt 
include the cars registration number. So esure appointed an independent arbitrator to make 
a legally binding decision on liability. And he held Mr M 100% at fault as he thought there 
was no evidence to show that the other driver had caused the damage to his car. 
I saw this report and noted that it didnt include the professional details of the arbitrator. But 
esure said it was a solicitors decision. And esure relied on this to decide that a court 
wouldnt find in Mr Ms favour and so it accepted liability on his behalf. 
I thought it was for esure to ensure that the arbitrator had all the evidence required to reach 
a valid decision. esure told us that the arbitrator had access to all the photographs of the 
damage to the cars. And I could see from its evidence that these were provided. 
The arbitrators decision referred just to the other drivers one photograph of damage to his 
car taken three years earlier to say that there was no evidence to show that the other driver 
had damaged Mr Ms car. His report didnt provide any commentary on the further damage, as noted by the Investigator, or Mr Ms allegations. This was unfortunate. But as I could see 
that the photographs were provided and the decision was legally binding, then I thought it 
was fair and reasonable for esure to rely on it. 
So I was satisfied that the arbitrator was provided with the correct information to consider. 
And so I was currently satisfied it was reasonable for esure to rely on this report to hold Mr M 
at fault, as it was entitled to do by the policys terms and conditions. It followed that I 
currently didnt require esure to reconsider its decision or to refund Mr Ms policy excess. 
esure paid Mr M £100 compensation for its poor communication during the claim. I could see 
that esure didnt provide Mr M with promised updates, and then it didnt tell him about its 
decision on liability until six months after it had received the arbitrators report. Mr M 
contacted esure for updates during this time, but the delay and lack of communication didnt 
seem to have unduly troubled him. 
Our Investigator thought esure should increase its compensation to £200 (a further £100) for 
this lack of communication and for not reasonably managing Mr Ms expectations. I thought 
that was in keeping with our published guidance for where there has been inconvenience 
lasting a number of months. So I was satisfied that was fair and reasonable.  
Subject to any further representations from Mr M and esure, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to require esure Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr M £100 further (£200 in total) compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M didnt reply to my provisional decision. esure replied that it accepted it. So, as I have 
no further representations to consider, I can see no reason to change my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £100 further (£200 in total) compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman