DRN-3596095
The complaint
Miss J has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly and 
unreasonably refused to pay her claims under her pet policy.
What happened
Miss J insured her cat with RSA. But rather than renewing her policy each year, she went 
online to buy a new policy, until September 2020 when the policy did then renew.
 
Miss J made the following claims which RSA refused to pay, because it decided that they 
related to pre-existing conditions. It initially said it was because these symptoms started 
within the first 14 days of the policy starting but that was a mistake. It offered £75 
compensation for this error causing further confusion. 
For treatment for pharyngitis in the sum of £173.42 for treatment from 23 March 2021 
to 25 June 2021.
For treatment for gastritis in the sum of £185.17 for treatment from 4 August 2021 to 
19 August 2021.
For treatment for Gastritis in the sum of £455.31 for treatment from 1 September 
2021 to 13 December 2021. 
Miss Js cat is elderly and has a complicated medical history with pre-existing pancreatitis 
and Irritable Bowel Disease. However, RSA did cover claims for gastritis between January 
2021 and July 2021. It considered this was a one-off instance of gastritis, so it decided to 
pay it in good faith. It considered the further claims for gastritis were linked to chronic 
constipation. It also said in its final response letter it believed Miss Js cat wasnt suffering 
from chronic gastritis.
However, it then told the investigator in May 2022 that Miss Js cat did have chronic gastritis. 
On this basis and the vet evidence from Miss Js vets the investigator was of the view the 
cats chronic gastritis began in late December 2020 which was after the policy renewed in 
September 2020. So, RSA should pay the claims relating to gastritis. She also couldnt see 
any evidence from the vet history that the claim for pharyngitis was pre-existing so thought 
that claim should also be paid. 
Given the refusal to pay Miss Js claim caused distress and inconvenience, the investigator 
thought RSA should also pay Miss J an additional compensation of £250. 
Miss J agreed with the investigators view, RSA didnt. I actually find it difficult to understand 
RSAs reasoning as to why it didnt agree. But it appears to have reverted back to deciding 
the cat didnt have chronic gastritis but instead had chronic constipation which it considered 
was most definitely pre-existing. On that basis Miss Js complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
The first issue is to decide if the claims related to chronic gastritis or chronic constipation as 
RSA believes.
Its very clear from the evidence provided by Miss Js vet that they wrote to RSAs vet on 25 
May 2021 saying they believed the gastritis started in late December 2020 when the cat was 
beginning to have uncontrolled gastrointestinal signs. They said the constipation issues are 
likely to be secondary to the reduced appetite and water intake when he was having a flare 
up of gastritis or pancreatitis (which incidentally is a pre-existing condition) as well as being 
attributable to his senior years in age. They said due to the complexity of the cats conditions 
with some overlap of symptoms, there has to be a certain degree of presumption. 
Then Miss Js vet following some email exchange with RSAs internal vet culminating in a 
letter from Miss Js vet of 4 June 2021 who detailed out certain issues in the vet history 
agreed the episode between 3 February to 5 February 2021  were signs which could be 
attributed to any of the conditions so RSAs vet was happy to cover these. And further RSAs 
vet agreed cover from 8 March 2021 onwards as it was fair to accept that the signs were 
attributed to gastric ulceration.
So, RSA paid Mrs Js claims for gastritis between January 2021 and July 2021 on this basis. 
Her vet is of the view that the claims for treatment for gastritis in the sum of £185.17 for 
treatment from 4 August 2021 to 19 August 2021 and again for treatment for Gastritis in the 
sum of £455.31 for treatment from 1 September 2021 to 13 December 2021 are a 
continuation of this chronic gastritis. 
The vet clearly states this in her letters to RSA of 8 September 2021 where she lists the 
medications they have prescribed for the cat and confirm the cat is only being medically 
managed for his chronic gastritis. And further on 15 October 2021 the vet again confirms one 
medication called cobalapex costing £4.47 would not be used for chronic gastritis but for 
inflammatory bowel disease which is now excluded from Miss Js cover, so the remainder of 
the claim should be paid as relating to gastritis. 
RSA without providing any evidence from its internal vet is of the view that the paid claim for 
gastritis from March 2021 was a one-off acute episode. It talks of the present claims for 
gastritis to be (ARD/GE) which it considers is pre-existing as it started in September 2020. It 
appears to claim this was discussed between its internal vet and Miss Js vet as detailed in 
the letter from Miss Js vet of 4 June 2021 but that doesnt appear clear to me at all. I 
consider the lack of clarity surrounding this fails to persuade me that Miss Js vet is wrong, 
so I find that she is far more persuasive as to her conclusions that these claims are properly 
for chronic gastritis and should be paid with interest if Miss J has already discharged her vet 
fees.
I dont consider Miss Js vet ever thought the cat was suffering chronic constipation as she 
explains to RSAs vet the constipation issues arise due to anorexia and lack of water intake 
due to when he was having a flare up of gastritis or pancreatitis as I detailed above. I do 
appreciate and understand there were issues of megacolon previously, but this is not part of 
these claims.  And furthermore, theres no evidence before me to show me the treatment 
detailed in the claims concerned chronic constipation as opposed to chronic gastritis. It is RSAs burden of proof to explain why something shouldnt be covered and I must say 
Ive found its evidence and arguments lacking in comprehensive detail which failed 
subsequently to coherently explain its position in this case.  
As regards the claim for pharyngitis RSA said this was pre-existing but like the investigator, I 
cant see anything in the vet history or otherwise to show it was pre-existing. It doesnt deal 
with this in its response to the investigator asking for an ombudsmen decision. Therefore, I 
consider this should also be paid with interest if Miss J has already discharged her vet fees.
I agree that this matter has caused Miss J some significant inconvenience and distress and I 
agree with the investigators suggestion that RSA should pay her an additional £250 
compensation.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do the following:
Reconsider all three claims namely; treatment for pharyngitis in the sum of £173.42 
for treatment from 23 March 2021 to 25 June 2021; treatment for gastritis in the sum 
of £185.17 for treatment from 4 August 2021 to 19 August 2021; treatment for 
Gastritis in the sum of £455.31 for treatment from 1 September 2021 to 13 December 
2021 under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy with a firm view of 
paying them.
Add interest of 8% simple per year if Miss J has discharged these vet fees, from the 
date she discharged them, to the date it refunds her. If income tax is to be deducted 
from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Miss J for HMRC 
purposes. 
Pay Miss J an additional sum of £250 in addition to the £75 previously offered as 
compensation for the inconvenience and distress this matter caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman