DRN-3229161
The complaint
Ms A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have failed to refund money she lost as part 
of a cryptocurrency scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Ms A authorised the payments of £267.43 on 16 July 2021 and 
£256.13 on 13 August 2021 to Cypto.com using her Monzo debit card (where her 
money was subsequently transferred on to the scammers from her crypto wallet). 
The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials 
provided by Monzo, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Ms A 
from falling victim to the scam. There are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character for her. However, having 
taken Ms As account activity and payment history into account, I do not think the 
payments she is disputing were particularly unusual for her at the time. 
The payments were not of such a large amount that they would appear unusual in 
comparison with her spending history, for example, such that they ought to have 
been regarded as suspicious or indicating that she might have been at risk of falling 
for a scam. There was also nothing else to indicate that Ms A was in the process of 
being scammed. So, I dont think Monzo can fairly be held liable for Ms As loss here 
as Im not persuaded there was any obligation on them to intervene or prevent the 
payments in these circumstances.
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to recover the funds 
after Ms A reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these 
circumstances, Ms A used her debit card to pay a legitimate company (Crypto.com) 
before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, she wouldnt 
be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the 
company she paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of 
cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Monzo were under any obligation to raise a 
chargeback for Ms A either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms A, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Monzo liable for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman