DRN-4031027
The complaint
Mr C complains about how RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) dealt with a problem with his 
vehicle under his breakdown cover policy.
Any reference to RAC in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
Mr C took out European breakdown cover with RAC for his vehicle prior to going on a family 
holiday in August 2022, for the planned duration of the holiday. However, problems arose 
with his vehicle after leaving the UK. He contacted RAC, who referred him to their European 
partners. They sent an engineer to inspect Mr Cs vehicle, who said the problem was an 
exhaust gas valve and the vehicle needed to be taken to a garage (G). G advised Mr C the 
cost of repair (€689), which he agreed. But G also then advised RAC there would be a 
further cost of €871 as they needed to remove the engine to carry out the repair. This wasnt 
mentioned to Mr C until he went to collect his vehicle. RAC agreed to cover the further cost 
due to a lack of communication with Mr C. He was without his vehicle for six days.  
When his vehicle was returned, Mr C had further problems after a couple of days, similar to 
those before the first issue. Mr C was able to return to the UK in his vehicle. He contacted 
RAC but was told his vehicle wasnt covered in the UK (the European cover was only valid in 
Europe). He took out UK breakdown cover with RAC (at a cost of £165). An engineer came 
out to inspect the vehicle, diagnosing the problem as the same exhaust gas valve that had 
been replaced. Mr C wanted to confirm the diagnosis, so arranged for a garage to inspect 
his vehicle (at a cost of £96). The report confirmed the diagnosis.
Mr C then complained to RAC. They didnt uphold the complaint in respect of the first 
problem and the repairs carried out by G, saying they werent responsible for any acts or 
omissions of G, which was clear in the policy terms and conditions. If Mr C had issues with 
Gs repairs, he should approach them. But RAC did award £100 in compensation and an 
additional £96 for the cost of the diagnostic report from the garage. They also agreed to 
refund the cost of UK breakdown cover as a goodwill gesture.
However, Mr C was unhappy he wasnt offered any compensation for the repair to his 
vehicle as well as issues with the holiday car, which affected his holiday. So he complained 
to this service.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint, concluding RAC didnt need to take any 
further action. Mr C then provided further information about what had happened, which our 
investigator considered and issued a revised view, partially upholding the complaint. He 
thought RAC should contribute towards the labour costs of the repairs incurred by Mr C, up 
to the value set out in the policy schedule. The investigator noted the policy covered 
diagnosis of the issue and (if necessary) recovery to a garage (if the issue couldnt be fixed 
by the attending engineer). The policy also provided for a contribution towards the labour 
cost of repairs (but not parts). 
RAC disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said that the policy provided for a contribution towards the labour cost of 
repairs (up to £150). But only if the vehicle could be repaired the same day. As Mr Cs 
vehicle took longer than a day to be fixed, the terms (and the contribution) wouldnt apply.
Mr C responded to say the investigators view didnt reflect all the information hed provided, 
so the investigators initial view didnt uphold the complaint (whereas the revised view 
partially upheld the complaint). Mr C also noted he hadnt chosen G as the garage to which 
his vehicle was recovered (and repaired). He also said RACs policy terms and conditions 
meant they didnt take responsibility for Gs repair work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RAC has acted fairly towards Mr C.
The key issues in Mr Cs complaint are, firstly, that RAC havent taken responsibility for the 
repair work carried out by G (given the same problem happened again). Even though he 
hadnt chosen G as the garage to which his vehicle was recovered (and then repaired). RAC 
say the policy makes it clear they arent responsible for the repairs carried out by garages (G 
in this case) and Mr C should take up the issues with G. Secondly, he hasnt been 
compensated for what happened, being without his vehicle for six days, and the impact on 
his holiday. In responding to Mr Cs complaint and the issues he raised, RAC say theyve 
compensated him for the initial lack of communication; reimbursed him for the diagnostic 
report from his garage; and refunded him the cost of UK breakdown cover.
On the first issue, Ive considered both views carefully, together with the evidence and 
information available. Having done so, Ive concluded RAC have acted reasonably and in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. I know this will be disappointing to Mr C, so Ill set 
out why Ive come to that conclusion.
In their final response, RAC say they arent responsible for any acts or omissions of the 
garage (G), which was clear in the policy terms and conditions. The General Conditions 
section of the policy includes the following statement:
19. The contract for repairs will be between you and the garage/repairer. We will not 
take responsibility for any acts or omissions of the garage/repairer.
I think this makes it clear RAC arent responsible for issues with the repair work carried out 
by G (RACs responsibility is to provide assistance in response to a breakdown and  if the 
problem cant be fixed at the roadside  arrange for the vehicle to be recovered to a garage. 
Ive also considered the report obtained by Mr C about his vehicle, after return to the UK and 
the assistance provided by RAC. The report indicates the problem is with the same exhaust 
gas valve replaced by G. The report also suggests a low-quality valve may have been used 
(rather than a genuine manufacturers valve). This indicates the issue is with the repair 
carried out by G. But given the terms and conditions set out above, its not something I can 
hold RAC responsible for (notwithstanding they covered the further cost of repair).
Ive also considered RACs point about the policy providing a contribution (of up to £150) 
towards the labour cost of repairs  but only if the repairs can be completed on the same 
day. RAC refer to the policy schedule, which states (under the heading Details of your 
cover and a sub-heading Roadside assistance in Europe):Garage Labour up to £150 if repairs can be completed on the same day
While this could be read to mean no contribution is due if the repairs cant be completed on 
the same day, it isnt stated explicitly (if thats the intention). And looking at the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) that summarises the key provisions of the policy, it 
states (under the heading What is insured):
Roadside Assistance
 Roadside assistance in Europe, recovery to a local garage and a contribution 
towards diagnosis and repairs.
Additionally, the policy document includes the following under the Your cover, Section 3: 
Roadside assistance in Europe, where it states:
2. If we are unable to repair the vehicle at the roadside, we will:
c. contribute towards the garage labour charges up to the amount on your schedule;
Taken together, I dont think this makes it clear or explicit that no contribution towards labour 
charges will be made if repairs take longer than a day. Applying the general principle that 
ambiguity in a contract should be interpreted in favour of the party that didnt draft it (which 
would be the policyholder) then I dont think its reasonable for RAC to refuse to contribute 
(up to £150) towards the labour charges incurred by Mr C (when paying for the initially 
quoted cost of repairs, €689). So, I think RAC should contribute £150 towards the labour 
costs of the repairs (assuming the labour element of the cost is at least £150) . 
On the second issue, Ive again considered what Mr C and RAC have said. While Mr C was 
without his vehicle for six days while being repaired by G, I dont think RAC can be held 
responsible for the time he didnt have his vehicle (from what Ive seen he had a replacement 
vehicle). RAC provided assistance and arranged for the vehicle to be recovered to a garage 
for it to be repaired. As Ive concluded above, I think RAC have acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions that they arent responsible for the repairs carried out by G. 
I also think they acted reasonably in covering the further cost of repair that Mr C wasnt told 
about until he collected his vehicle, as well as awarding £100 compensation for the lack of 
communication. And on the further problem encountered by Mr C, I think RAC have acted 
reasonably in reimbursing Mr C for the diagnostic report from his garage and refunding the 
cost of his UK breakdown cover. As RAC have already covered the further cost of repair and 
reimbursed the diagnostic report and UK breakdown cover, there is no need for me to require 
them to do so. Similarly, having awarded £100 compensation, Id expect them to pay this (if 
they havent already done so).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. I 
require RAC Insurance Limited to:  
Contribute £150 towards the labour costs of the repairs (assuming the labour 
element of the cost is at least £150) . 
RAC Insurance Limited must pay the contribution within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
them Mr C accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest 
on the contribution from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman