DRN-1978088
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that N26 Bank GmbH wont refund money he says he didnt receive when he 
made a cashpoint withdrawal.
What happened
Mr A says that when he requested £250 from a cash machine, he was only given £10. He 
raised this with N26 Bank. Although it refunded the missing money to him first it then quickly 
took it back.
N26 Bank said that it had raised a chargeback for the missing money. But that the acquiring 
bank had submitted evidence to show that the cash had been dispensed correctly. So, it re-
debited the money. It said that Mr A had made a previous similar complaint that he had only 
received £10 when he had withdrawn £30. It had repaid this as a gesture of goodwill without 
raising a chargeback. But N26 said that the chances of this happening on two occasions 
were incredibly low.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Although Mr A had raised 
further complaint points about his account being closed and the service hed received, wed 
only be looking here at the complaint about the disputed transaction amount. 
She said that this withdrawal had been completed at 02:53 on 9 May 2019. Shed seen a 
journal roll from the cash machine operated by a different business to N26 Bank. This 
showed that the transactions before and after that of Mr A were completed without incident. 
And that Mr A appeared to have been given the correct amount of money  twelve £20 notes 
and one £10 note. The note count for the machine before and after this withdrawal were 
correct and there was no evidence any notes involved here were rejected. Although wed 
asked for evidence that the cash machine balanced the next time it was checked, N26 hadnt 
been able to get that.
She had also seen that Mr A had disputed an earlier cash withdrawal made on 1 March 2019 
for £30. He had told N26 Bank he didnt get all the money on 5 April 2019. The £20 he said 
was missing had been refunded to him on 26 April 2019. She agreed it seemed unlikely this 
would happen again. And a withdrawal of £250 seemed out of character with the normal 
pattern on his account.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that he hadnt made a previous claim about a withdrawal of £30. 
He didnt think the withdrawal of £250 was out of character and was a reason for not 
upholding his complaint. He had also made a chargeback request for another payment of 
just under £105 and after persisting with this N26 Bank had refunded him permanently 
proving it had been wrong. Mr A said that he was very unhappy not to receive all his missing 
money back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at the evidence N26 Bank has provided. And this includes a dispute form 
dated 9 April 2019 about the earlier withdrawal of £30 which is signed by Mr A and includes 
a comment from him stating I have filled out what I can I need the £20 in question.   I 
accept that given the time that has passed he may have simply forgotten about this as the 
money was refunded without question on 26 April 2019. I am going to consider this 
complaint on the basis that this was his second similar claim within a couple of months. But I 
dont consider that Mr As separate chargeback request for a now permanently refunded 
payment for goods using his card details is going to help me in deciding what happened 
here.
The transaction list for his account shows that he only made one other cash withdrawal to 
the two disputed  for £50 in February 2019. He made a number of other larger transactions. 
But I think a fair point is that it is unusual that he had two very similar claims at different cash 
points within a relatively short period of time. Ive listened to a call he had with our 
investigator. When she asked him what the withdrawal of £250 was for, he wasnt very 
specific  or about what he had done instead as he needed this money. While it is of course 
up to him what he does with his money, background information does help to build a picture 
of what most likely happened where there is a dispute.
N26 Bank has shown that it challenged the withdrawal on his behalf, refunded Mr A in the 
interim and was unsuccessful using the chargeback process. While such a process isnt 
definitive it did result in useful evidence about the withdrawal. I agree with our investigator 
that there is nothing untoward shown about this withdrawal. No one used the machine until 
two hours after Mr A so its not as if his money could have been taken by anyone else 
waiting to use the machine.
We often see evidence that the machine balanced and thats not been available here. And I 
accept that machines arent infallible. I need as I say to decide on what is most likely and 
thats taking into account all the factors  not just whether this withdrawal was out of the 
ordinary. I do consider that a key piece of additional evidence surrounding this dispute is that 
Mr A says that this had happened before. That to me makes it very unlikely that this would 
be the explanation here again and Im not persuaded that an error has been made. 
I know Mr A will be very disappointed when I say that as a result, I wont be asking N26 Bank 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman