DRN-2372517
The complaint
Miss S complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) because a 
cheque she paid into her account was delayed in clearing.  This caused Miss S distress and 
inconvenience and she is not happy with the offer of compensation offered by Halifax. 
What happened
Miss S holds an account with Halifax. 
On 5 May 2020, Miss S paid a cheque for around £2100 into her Halifax account.
Halifaxs usual cheque clearing time was that cheques paid in on day one would clear on 
day two (the following day).
Miss S therefore expected her cheque to clear on 6 May 2020.
On 6 May 2020, Miss S tried to make a payment, against the funds that she expected to be 
in her account. The company she was trying to pay advised her that the payment would not 
work and that they had tried to take the payment several times.
Miss S contacted Halifax. She was advised that the staff could see no reason why the 
cheque would be delayed, but it remained showing as pending on her account online for 
some time. 
The payment cleared into Miss Ss account on 11 May 2020, but remained showing as 
pending online. 
Miss S complained to Halifax. She explained that she had been cause embarrassment and 
worry when it had not cleared on time and she had been unable to pay her bills. 
Halifax responded to her in July 2020 and explained that it could see no specific reason for 
the delay in the cheque clearing, but that it appeared to be a system error, possibly due to 
increased contacts from the public and adjustments to working that Halifax had had to make 
during the pandemic. 
Halifax apologised and credited Miss S with £50 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. 
Miss S was not happy with that response and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that the compensation offered was reasonable relative to the delay in the cheque 
clearing and she did not ask Halifax to do anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this episode has caused Miss S distress and inconvenience. She has 
explained that the business she was attempting to pay made multiple attempts to take 
payment and that she fears that they will not work with her again. She also explained that 
she tried to make other bill payments and was worried when she could not access her funds 
and it was not clear why.
I understand Miss Ss distress. It would, of course, be concerning to not be able to access a 
significant amount of money, and for it to impact upon payments she needed to pay. 
I do, however, have to consider whether the business has done anything significantly wrong, 
and if it has, whether it has made a reasonable offer of redress. 
In this situation there is no dispute that Halifax did not clear the cheque within its usual 
timeframes. Halifax acknowledged this and explained that it was a system error, at a time 
when it was dealing with increased contacts from customers, and when it had a reduced 
staff.
The cheque then did clear, a further 5 days later, on 11 May 2020, meaning that Miss S was 
able to then use her funds. 
I have seen Miss Ss bank statement showing that she was not able to make payments 
using the funds until 11 May, and that she then made a number of payments, including one 
substantial amount. 
I accept that Halifax failed in its service and that Miss S was caused inconvenience by this. 
I do, however, also consider that Halifax acknowledged this and apologised to Miss S 
promptly, and made an offer of £50 compensation to reflect this inconvenience. 
I understand that Miss S does not think this offer of compensation is sufficient, but I think it is 
in line with awards we would make in similar circumstances. I have not seen evidence of 
effects upon Miss S, other than the embarrassment and inconvenience she has described, 
and which were resolved within a relatively short period. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators view that Halifax has made a reasonable offer 
to resolve the complaint and I do not ask it to do anything further. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing to Miss S, but I hope that it clearly explains 
my reasons for reaching it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has made 
a reasonable offer of compensation to resolve Miss Ss complaint and I do not ask it to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman