DRN-3263008
The complaint
In summary, Mr Ws complaint about Jaja Finance Limited is in respect of the difficulties hes 
had in accessing his credit card account details online. Hes also unhappy with the customer 
service hes received from it.
What happened
Mr W had a credit card account which was migrated to Jaja. He tried to access his account 
online. When he was unable to do so, he complained to Jaja. 
In its response to Mr Ws complaint, Jaja said that Mr W was able to access his online 
account in October 2020. It also said that it was aware he had encountered substantial hold 
times when phoning to resolve the problem. By way of compensation it added £30 to his 
account. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Jajas response, so he referred his complaint to our service. His 
concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. 
The investigator explained he was only looking into the complaint about the difficulties in 
accessing the account online. Although acknowledging that this had been inconvenient for 
Mr W, he thought he could access information about his account in different ways. He didnt 
think Jaja was obliged to provide online access to the account. And he thought Jaja had 
taken steps to try and resolve the problem. He didnt think Jaja needed to refund the fees 
Mr W had paid.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He raised a number of issues that he didnt think had 
been addressed by the investigator and said that he still didnt have online access. He didnt 
think he had been provided with the services he previously had for the account since it had 
been migrated to Jaja.
 
The investigator responded to Mr W. And he explained why he wasnt persuaded to change 
his opinion. Mr W then asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, the 
complaint was passed to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 December 2021. I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint in part. 
In response, Mr W explained that he was still without online access and he had no further 
contact from Jaja to resolve the issue or provide him with an update. 
Jaja also responded. It said Mr W had anti- malaware in his computer that stopped the 
service running as it should. If he was to use another computer without that specific 
malaware, he would be able to access his online account without difficulty. It said this wasnt 
a Jaja error. And it also said although Mr W didnt want to use his app, he would still need to 
use it for PSD2 authorisations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld in part. Ive set 
out my reasoning below.
I am aware that Mr W has raised a number of concerns in relation to his credit card account 
with Jaja. For the avoidance of any doubt, my decision solely addresses the issues I have 
summarised above. So, I wont be addressing the other concerns Mr W has raised. They will 
be dealt with separately. And if Mr W hasnt already raised any of those concerns with Jaja, 
he should raise them directly with it. If he is dissatisfied with its response, those concerns 
can be brought to this service to investigate. 
Mr W appears to have raised with Jaja the difficulties hes had in accessing his account 
online, in October 2020. And in its response to his complaint, Jaja said that he had logged in 
successfully that month. But it applied £30 to his account as a good will gesture for the 
issues he experienced, and for the lengthy hold times when contacting its customer service 
team. Its also said that another £75 has been paid to Mr W.
Jaja has also said that after it issued its final response, it established that Mr W hadnt 
logged in and still remained without access to online services. It accepted that this was 
overlooked by the complaint handler at that time. 
Its disappointing that Mr W was given an incorrect answer to his complaint, and that he was 
told he had done something, which he correctly said that he hadnt. And I can understand 
that this must have been very frustrating for him to have been told this, when he knew that it 
was incorrect. Its not surprising therefore he was concerned his account may have been 
accessed fraudulently as a result of what Jaja incorrectly told him. I cant see that this 
mistake was rectified by Jaja, so Mr W was left with the impression for some time, that his 
account may have been accessed fraudulently. 
The terms and conditions provided by Jaja, record at paragraph16.3 that online services 
were available to allow a customer such as Mr W, to view their account, and or make 
payments. So, I think Mr W reasonably had an expectation that he would be able to access 
his account online. And I can understand his frustration at not being able to access a feature 
he says was important to him.
In its response to my provisional decision, Jaja said that the problem with Mr W accessing 
his account online, was down to anti malaware software he had on his computer. And that 
without that he could access his account online without difficulty. 
But what it hasnt acknowledged or referenced in its response, is what it has said since Mr W 
originally raised his concerns. Jaja said it had taken steps to investigate and resolve the 
issue concerning Mr Ws online access. And it identified a software bug which was affecting 
Mr Ws ability to access his account details online. It was anticipated that the software bug 
would be fixed by the end of May 2021. But by June 2021, this still hadnt been resolved, 
nearly 9 months after Mr W reported the issue. And from its response, Jaja now seems to be 
suggesting that the problem is with Mr Ws anti-malaware rather than a software bug.
Again, I accept that this has been very frustrating and inconvenient for Mr W. But I am 
satisfied that he has had alternative ways of accessing and managing his account. In 
addition to the online service, a mobile app was also available for Mr W. Although he has 
explained he has chosen not to use it for security reasons, it is available for him to use. And he could contact Jaja by telephone for information. So, Im satisfied that he did have other 
ways of accessing his account.
I dont have the power to punish a business such as Jaja. It isnt within my remit or that of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. How it operates is a matter for the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority to consider. 
I can consider individual complaints. And for the reasons Ive explained, I am satisfied that 
Mr W has suffered some distress and inconvenience as a result of the way that Jaja has 
dealt with this issue. And that it has had impacted him and the way he prefers to run his 
account. 
Jaja accepted that there have been problems with Mr W accessing his account online due to 
software problems on its part. Its response to my provisional decision doesnt change my 
opinion on this, as its not provided any corroborative evidence to support what it said. 
Jaja also accepted that its customer service to Mr W hasnt been what it should have been. 
Its also acknowledged that it gave him incorrect information that Im satisfied has led to him 
worrying his account may have been accessed fraudulently. 
I dont think therefore taking into account what Ive said above, that the compensation Jaja 
has paid Mr W, adequately reflects the impact on him of the mistakes Jaja has made. And 
for the reasons Ive explained, I think a sum of £250 is more appropriate to compensate Mr 
W for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of Jajas failings.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. If Mr W accepts my decision, 
Jaja Finance Ltd needs to pay Mr W a total of £250 (inclusive of the compensation it has 
already paid to Mr W in respect of this complaint) in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman