DRN-3153088
The complaint
Mr K complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) didnt pay the first three months instalments on his hire purchase 
agreement (HPA) as had been agreed.
What happened
Mr K entered into a HPA with VWFS in September 2020. He says that as part of the deal, 
VWFS were to pay the first three monthly payments but this didnt happen. Mr K wants the 
three monthly payments applied to his agreement and any interest adjustment to be made 
as well as compensation for the distress and inconvenience this issue has caused.
VWFS issued a final response letter in August 2021 not upholding Mr Ks complaint. It says 
that the agreement was set up correctly with the three months deferred payment. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought the agreement had clearly set out 
the first three months would be a payment holiday. She considered the promotional product 
information and said this explained that the interest rate would be adjusted to reduce the 
amount payable by an equivalent of three monthly payments and was satisfied that Mr K had 
received the advertised discount. She also considered the concerns raised by Mr K about 
the registration plate recorded in the agreement and thought it reasonable to accept that 
Mr K had been provided with the car he had intended to acquire. Overall, she didnt think the 
issues Mr K had raised had resulted in him suffering any detriment.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He said the advertising was misleading and the 
information given to him when he acquired the car was incorrect. He says he was told an 
amount of £2,000 would be credited to his agreement and that he reduced his deposit 
payment and increased his monthly instalments to ensure the maximum contribution. He 
says at no time was he told the interest rate would be reduced to create a saving.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K acquired a car through a HPA with the 3 months on us promotion. He has sent 
information about the promotion which says the business will pay the first three monthly 
payments and has explained that this was a factor in his decision to acquire the car. I can 
understand why he is upset as he feels the three monthly payments havent been made by 
VWFS and so believes the agreement was mis-sold. 
I have considered the information provided and Mr Ks comments about the conversation he 
had. I have placed weight on the documents provided to decide whether the agreement was 
clearly explained to Mr K and whether he has been adversely affected by the issue raised in 
this complaint.
Looking at the agreement Mr K signed, this clearly sets out the payments due and the 
interest rate. It sets out that 45 monthly repayments of £745.66, on the same date of each 
successive month, save that there will be a Payment Holiday in month(s) 1,2 and 3; followed 
by a final payment . 48 months after the date set for the first repayment. I think this clearly 
explains the amounts that Mr K was required to pay and that he would receive a payment 
holiday for the first three months.
The promotional information has been provided and this explains that the customer pays 
nothing for the first three months and VWFS contribute towards this cost. The contribution is 
made by a reduction in the interest rate. I understand Mr Ks comments that he wasnt made 
aware that the contribution would be made in this way but as he wasnt charged for the first 
three months as per the agreement and I have nothing to suggest that he hasnt benefitted 
from the interest reduction to an amount in line with the three monthly payments, I do not 
find I can say that he has been disadvantaged.
I note Mr Ks comment about the registration number on the agreement. It isnt our role to 
say whether an agreement is enforceable or not, that is for the courts to decide but as our 
investigator set out, it does appear that Mr K was provided with the car he intended to 
acquire.
Overall, while I can understand why Mr K is upset by his experience, I do not find that I can 
say he hasnt received the benefit that was offered. Because of this I do not find I have 
enough to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman