DRN-4119464
The complaint
Mr B complains that his contractual monthly payment (CMP) on his mortgage with Accord 
Mortgages Limited has increased although hes on a fixed rate mortgage product.
What happened
Mr B has a mortgage with Accord and a fixed rate mortgage product at an interest rate of 
3.36% following a mortgage offer dated 14 April 2022. The interest rate was fixed until 31 
August 2024 and the CMP was initially £351.34. The mortgage was subject to annual 
review. Submitted with the application was a form dated 8 April 2022 requesting that the 
preferred date for payment to be the first of each month. On 9 May 2022, Mr B asked Accord 
to amend the mortgage date from the first to the end of the month. Then at the annual 
mortgage review at the end of 2022, the CMP was increased to £353.73. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as the reason for the 
increase was the change in the payment date which was instigated by Mr B. So, in his view 
Accord had done nothing wrong. Mr B disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says that as he has a fixed rate mortgage, his payments should stay the same and is 
disappointed that they have increased at a time when he is facing financial pressure. A fixed 
rate mortgage does what it says. The interest rate is fixed for the length of the term. 
Normally this will mean that the CMP remains the same but not always. In this case it 
increased. Why did it increase?
I have access to Accords notes, and these record a call with Mr B in May 2022 when he 
asked to change the payment date to the end of the month. I also note that the adviser 
appears to have warned Mr B that this would lead to an increase in the CMP at the annual 
review. After the annual review, the CMP did go up by £2.39 and Mr B rang up to object. I 
suspect that because the payments are only changed annually on this account that Mr B 
may well have forgotten in March 2023 what he was told in May 2022 whereas if the CMP 
had changed immediately in May/June 2022 he would more readily have connected the 
reason why his CMP was increasing. It seems to me that if the CMP is collected at the end 
of the month rather than the first of the month, there would be extra interest due as the 
payment is made 30 days later than it was expected to be made and on which Accords 
calculations were based. Mr B changed his payment date beginning in June 2022 from the 1 
June to 30 June, and as Mr B didnt make his payment at the beginning of the month the 
mortgage balance would have been higher at the end of the month than it otherwise would 
have been. So, extra interest would be due although the interest rate stays the same.
Accord is entitled to collect the interest for that period and factor it in at annual review which 
it did. So, Im satisfied that Accords estimates were based on Mr Bs request through his 
broker, that Mr B asked for the change in payment date and was advised that this would 
increase the CMP at annual review, that the increase was fairly charged, and that Accord 
could change the CMP to a fixed rate mortgage as long as the interest rate remained fixed 
which it did. Ive read the file carefully and I can see that any small increase would have an 
impact on Mr B who has been attempting to manage on a tight budget. But, sympathetic as I 
am to Mr B, my role is to decide if Accord has done anything wrong and it simply hasnt. So, 
I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman