DRN-1676989
The complaint
Mr A complains Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, is unfairly 
holding him responsible for a loan which he did not apply for.  He would like to repay the 
loan - but without any interest.
What happened
Mr A complained to his bank when he noticed payments towards a Satsuma loan were being 
made from his account.  These payments were returned by his bank and Mr A then 
complained to Satsuma.  He said he had not applied for the loan.  He also told this service 
he offered to pay the money back straight away but without any interest added.
Satsuma did not uphold his complaint.  It said it was satisfied Mr A had applied for the loan 
and was holding him liable for the repayment  including the interest accrued.
When Mr A came to this service, our investigator didnt think he could ask Satsuma to do 
anymore  so the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything to suggest Satsuma has been unfair or unreasonable in how it dealt 
with Mr As complaint.
The application for the loan was made using Mr As details and the money was paid into Mr 
As bank account.  I cant see why a fraudster would do that.  I also note Mr A did not 
complain about the money going in to his account  rather just when the payments were 
taken out. I think Mr A would have noticed a credit of £400 to his account when it was made.
Mr A accepts he has had the benefit of the loan because he used the funds  and I am 
pleased to see that he has offered a repayment plan with Satsuma to pay the loan back.
Ive thought about whether Satsuma is being unfair in asking Mr A to repay the interest on 
the loan as well as the loan itself  and I dont think it is being unfair.  I think Mr A applied for 
this loan so should be liable for the full amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman