DRN-3749994
The complaint
Ms W, as a representative for the estate of Ms G, complains that West Bay Insurance Plc 
trading as Zenith Insurance (West Bay) has unfairly refused a claim for the accidental death 
of Ms G.
What happened
For ease of reading, where I refer to Ms W, I include both she and any representatives or 
administrators of Ms Gs estate.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. In summary, Ms G fell in her garden and amongst other injuries banged her head. She 
went to hospital for tests and care and was discharged home soon after. About a month later 
Ms G suffered a stroke, which sadly led to her death a little while later.
Ms G had an insurance policy that would pay a certain amount should she die or be injured 
as a result of an accident. Ms W approached West Bay to make a claim on the policy. West 
Bay said it need not pay out as Ms G hadnt died as a result of an accident as defined in the 
policy terms and conditions.
Ms W didnt think that was fair and complained, but West Bay didnt change its stance. One 
of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think West Bay had acted unfairly. She 
said that the medical evidence provided didnt show the accident caused Ms Gs death, so it 
wasnt covered by the death benefit provisions of the policy.
Ms W doesnt agree. She thinks there is a direct link between the accident and Ms Gs 
death, and points out that head injuries can cause fatal conditions some time later. She 
believes thats what happened to Ms G. Shes asked that an ombudsman consider the 
complaint so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to learn of the circumstances which led to this claim. I know Ive used a short 
summary to capture the events that led to Ms Gs death, but Im satisfied Ive captured the 
essence of what happened.
Policy terms and conditions
West Bay has provided a set of policy terms and conditions, which set out when it will  and 
wont  pay a claim. The relevant parts of the terms and conditions say, in summary, that the 
death benefit will be paid if Ms G suffers injury or death occurring within the property 
boundary which is caused by an accident and which within 13 weeks of the accident shall 
solely, directly and independently of any other cause, result in death or hospitalisation.
Theres no argument about whether Ms G had an accident  she fell and hurt herself in May 
2020. Nor is there any doubt that her subsequent death fell within the 13 week timeframe. 
So it was right that West Bay consider the claim. To qualify for the benefit, there needs to be 
a direct link between the death and the accident, and the accident has to be the sole cause 
of the death.
West Bay considered the cause of death outlined on Ms Gs death certificate. It says, in 
summary, that she died as a result of a stroke and that she had underlying health issues  
high blood pressure and diabetes. Theres no mention of the accident contributing to Ms Gs 
death. 
I do understand why Ms W thinks Ms Gs fall contributed to her death, but the information 
shes sent us is based largely on her opinion. She says Ms Gs high blood pressure was 
controlled by medication, and its well known that head injuries can lead to fatal 
complications later. I dont doubt both of those statements. However, the medical evidence 
shows Ms G was comprehensively checked after her fall before she returned home. And the 
accident isnt shown as a cause of death on the death certificate. West Bay had the hospital 
records from the time of the fall reviewed by a doctor, and he doesnt think theres a link 
between the accident and Ms Gs death. 
I think West Bay did the right thing in considering the medical records as well as the death 
certificate in order to assess the claim. Its accepted that an insurer can rely on professional 
reports it receives when considering claims and West Bay did that here.
Taking everything into consideration I dont think Ms Gs death was covered by the 
provisions in the policy, and so Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms G 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman