DRN-3712798
The complaint
Mr D complains that there was a hidden fee when he signed up for a credit card with 
Sainsbury's Bank Plc.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I understand Mr D says he wasnt told about the 1% fee that would be applied to any 
balance transfers he made to his new credit card.
Sainsburys have provided a copy of the credit card agreement. It has been electronically 
signed by Mr D on the 8 July 2022. I understand that Mr D believes this was a side 
document that didnt form part of the contract and that he shouldnt be bound to.
Im not persuaded that is the case. I say that because the signature box explains:
By signing this credit card agreement (my emphasis) you confirm
(3) to be bound by this agreement and (my emphasis) the general credit card terms and 
conditions.
So, whilst there would be no interest charged on balance transfers for 14 months I dont 
agree that there were no further charges. The balance transfer fee was clearly listed on 
pages two and 15 of the agreement Mr D signed.
Mr D says that a 0% balance transfer should be just that. He says its unfair of Sainsburys to 
suggest this is a 0% transfer when charges apply. I dont think thats fair. Its clear this 
account offered 0% interest on balance transfers but that didnt mean that Sainsburys 
couldnt charge a fee to consumers who benefitted from that offer, as long as they explained 
what they were doing. I think Sainsburys did explain that intention, so I dont think they need 
to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman