DRN-2723610
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of O, complains that HDI Global Speciality SE unfairly declined the claim 
made on Os commercial insurance policy in relation to losses following the COVID-19 
pandemic.
What happened
O held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by HDI and a third party insurer. Much of 
the claims process was handled by a different third party, acting as HDIs agent. For the 
sake of simplicity, I have just referred to HDI within this decision. 
Os policy provided cover in relation to a number of areas, including for loss as a result of 
business interruption. Os business had to close in March 2020, in line with the UK 
Governments measures to control the spread of COVID-19. Mr M, on behalf of O, contacted 
HDI to make a claim under the business interruption section of the policy.
HDI declined the claim. It said COVID-19 was not one of the diseases listed as being 
covered by the Murder, suicide or disease cover extension to this section of the policy. 
Mr M complained, saying COVID-19 was a new disease and could not have been included in 
the list of covered diseases. He referred Os complaint to this service.
Our investigator concluded that, as COVID-19 was not included in this list, HDI had acted 
fairly and reasonably when declining Os claim and in responding to the complaint. Mr M 
remained unhappy and this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on O, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the investigators.
I understand that O closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown. The nature of the business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover O is looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy O took out.
Os policy included cover for business interruption. The standard cover provided by this 
section, as well as a number of the extensions, is based on cover being provided where an 
interruption to the business of the insured has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I 
appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 
caused damage to property. So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, 
or the extensions that require damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Os claim. And 
I think HDI acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Os claim under these areas of cover. 
The policy does also provide cover in relation to certain circumstances that dont relate to 
property damage. But I dont think any of these provide cover for Os losses in this claim. 
Mr M has focussed his argument on the disease part of the Murder, suicide or disease 
cover extension. So, this is what I will also focus this decision on.
This extension says, in part:
We will pay you for interruption of or interference with the business during the 
indemnity period following
1.the occurrence of any of the following specified human infectious or human 
contagious diseases suffered by any person at your premises or within a one 
mile radius of it acute encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, chicken pox, 
cholera, diphtheria, dysentery, legionellosis, legionnaires disease, leprosy, 
leptospirosis, malaria, measles, meningococcal infection, mumps, opthalmia 
neonatorum, paratyphoid fever, plague, rabies, rubella, scarlet fever, smallpox, 
tetanus, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, viral hepatitis, whooping cough and yellow 
fever.
 
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided O with cover. This is because COVID-19 isnt one of the specified diseases listed in 
the term.
When reaching this finding Im mindful of Mr Ms comments that COVID-19 is a new disease 
and it would not have been possible for HDI to include it in the policy at the time it was 
written. But I dont think that changes anything. I dont think HDI intended to, or suggested 
they would, provide cover for all diseases  either all infectious or contagious disease or all 
those that might be added to a government defined, regularly updated list. HDI deliberately 
chose to limit cover to a static list of specified diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
I think the purpose and effect of this extension is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the extension. I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as 
covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.  
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Os claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied HDIs decision to decline the claim under 
this extension was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means HDI should have met Os claim. I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr M, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
O, to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman