DRN-4160249
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Santander UK Plc will not refund the money she paid for a vehicle. 
She believes she has been scammed and has lost out as a result. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
Miss G has explained that she saw a vehicle for sale on a well-known social media shopping 
platform that she was interested in. She contacted the seller and arranged to meet them to 
view the vehicle, which she did at a shopping centre car park.
Miss G has said she was able to test drive the vehicle and she noticed that the front bumper 
was slightly lifted, so she asked the seller if the vehicle had been in an accident. Miss G said 
the seller told her it hadnt and that the only issue with it was that the parking sensor wasnt 
working.
After test driving the vehicle Miss G agreed to purchase it and agreed a price of £6,075. She 
made four payments to the seller, two from her Santander account (totalling £1,500) and two 
from an account she held with another banking provider (totalling £4,575).
The transactions that Miss G made from her Santander account, which are the payments 
relevant to this complaint, are listed below:
6 May 2022 £100
6 May 2022 £1,400
The following day Miss G went to the Post Office to arrange for the vehicle to be taxed, but 
found she was unable to do so as the seller had given her a V62 form, rather than the 
vehicles logbook. Miss G contacted the seller, who told her that they would send the 
logbook to her after the weekend.
Miss G has said she then had a mechanic look at the vehicle and he told her it wasnt 
roadworthy. She also told Santander that shed paid for a DVLA check and found out that the 
vehicle was in the sellers name but had been written off as a Category S.
Following this Miss G contacted the seller again, telling them that they had sold the vehicle 
without a logbook and that it had been in an accident. Miss G asked the seller to refund her 
the money that shed paid and to pick up the vehicle. The seller responded to Miss G to say 
that the advertisement had mentioned that the vehicle was a Category S, they added that it 
was fine if Miss G wanted to return the vehicle, but they would deduct 20% of the money 
paid for the hassle and time.
The seller stopped communicating with Miss G after shed told them that shed gone to the 
DVLA and the Police. They told Miss G that theyd spoken to somebody from the Police 
whod said to leave the matter with them. The seller added that they would have been happy 
to help out with the paperwork and process, but now they had been advised not to. The 
seller maintained that the vehicle was fine and without the previous accident it would be 
worth much more than Miss G had paid.
Miss G raised the matter with Santander, as she believes she has been the victim of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam. Santander looked into the concerns that Miss G had 
raised. It considered the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), of which it is a 
signatory, and sent its final response to Miss G, not upholding her complaint. It deemed the 
matter a civil dispute between Miss G and the seller.
Miss G then brought her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into things 
but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she considered this was a dispute between 
Miss G and the seller, who she had made the payments to, so she didnt think the payments 
were covered under the CRM Code.
Our Investigator didnt think the evidence demonstrated Miss G had been scammed. In 
summary, she said this because Miss G had successfully purchased the vehicle and driven it 
away and she was still in possession of the vehicle. Our Investigator added that she had 
contacted the DVLA and asked generally about Category S vehicles and it was the case 
that, once any repairs had been completed on the vehicle, Miss G could register the vehicle 
in her name through the DVLA. She also added that information shed seen from the 
receiving bank (the bank to which the payments were made) didnt give her any concerns.
Miss G didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, and through her 
representative, she maintained that she believes this was pre-meditated fraud.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to  
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
Before setting out my findings, Ill clarify that whilst Ive read and considered all the 
submissions in their entirety, I wont be responding in the same level of detail. It isnt my role 
to respond to each and every point made, and I hope the parties wont consider this a 
discourtesy. This also means that, in keeping with our role for quick and informal resolutions, 
I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question  
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. As I understand it, the crux of the 
complaint here is that Miss G is unhappy that Santander wont refund the money shes sent 
for the purchase of a vehicle, which she believes was the result of a scam.
In her submissions, and through her representative, Im mindful that Miss G has referred to 
matters such as the banks processes. I would point out that were not the regulator of 
financial businesses, its not the role of this service to tell a bank how it should run its 
processes, nor is it this services role to monitor those processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual 
disputes between businesses and their customers.Having considered everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Santander to 
refund the money Miss G has sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Miss G 
was hoping for and I can understand why she wants to try and recover this money. But 
having thought about Santanders actions, I am unable to say it has a responsibility for 
refunding the money Miss G sent. I will explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Santander made 
the payments, it was complying with Miss Gs instructions. At the time, Miss G wanted to pay 
the seller and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account 
details. As I dont think Santander acted incorrectly by making the payments, Ive gone on to 
consider whether it should have refunded Miss G for any other reason.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the CRM 
Code, which Ive mentioned above and which Santander is signed up to and was in force at 
the time Miss G made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about whether the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payments Miss G made and, in particular, whether Santander ought to 
reimburse her under the provisions of the CRM Code. But the CRM Code is quite explicit 
that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our Investigator felt the payments Miss G made formed part of a 
buyer/seller dispute and, as such, are not covered by the CRM Code.
Miss G strongly disagrees. She feels the seller has scammed her. From what I have seen, 
although I accept Miss G may not have received a vehicle that was in as good a condition as 
she expected, I dont think I can fairly say that the situation Miss G finds herself in is a scam. 
I think the payments Miss G made do form part of a civil dispute and, as such, are not 
covered by the CRM Code. This means I dont think Santander is responsible for 
reimbursing Miss G under the CRM Code.
I can appreciate why Miss G feels she has been deceived. She was under the impression 
the vehicle didnt have any faults, other than the parking sensor. But I am mindful that      
Miss G did receive the vehicle for the money she paid and the seller, in communications with 
Miss G after the sale, doesnt try and dispute that the vehicle had been in an accident nor 
that it was a Category S. They also claimed the advert had stated this, although it appears 
the advert unfortunately is no longer available to prove or disprove this.
With the evidence that is available to me, I cant fairly or reasonably say the seller was not 
legitimate and had set out with an intent to deceive Miss G. There is no dispute that the 
vehicle exists, indeed Miss G has it in her possession, and Ive not seen anything that makes 
me think the person selling it did not have the right to sell it. Im persuaded this is supported 
by Miss G telling Santander that the DVLA check shed carried out had showed it was 
registered in the sellers name. As well as this, correspondence which Miss G later received from the DVLA stated that it hadnt received any reports from the Police suggesting the 
vehicle had been stolen.
The problems Miss G has raised stem back to the condition of the vehicle. But this is an 
issue thats clearly stated as not being catered for within the CRM Code. And I note that a 
Category S vehicle can still be used, subject to it being in a road worthy condition. This is 
important as from what Ive seen there would be nothing to stop Miss G making 
arrangements to register the vehicle in her name and using it, albeit I appreciate there may 
be some work required on the vehicle before she is able to do so.
Having concluded that this wasnt a scam, there is nothing further for me to consider, as a 
bank cant fairly and reasonably be required to protect its customers from bad bargains or to 
give them advice on what they should buy. There are occasions when we do think banks 
should query payments  because of suspicious activity that appears unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account or customer. If such potential fraud alerts are triggered, it is 
fair and reasonable for a banker to pause and ask questions of the payer about the 
transaction  which might unravel a scam and stop it before any loss occurs.
But a bank does not have to intervene with authorised payments, and cannot be held liable 
for losses, when there is in fact no fraud or scam, or if the payer has regrets or second 
thoughts after the event. As Ive said above, the starting position is that the bank is expected 
to process payments and withdrawals that a customer instructs it to make without undue 
delay.
Alongside this, Im also mindful that there are some other factors, in the individual  
circumstances of this case, that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of 
scam or a trader setting out with an intent to defraud. The seller, at least for a time, was still 
contactable after Miss G had made the payment. This is not typically the case with 
fraudsters, who more often than not, once in receipt of a victims money, will not provide any 
goods at all and will then no longer be contactable. It doesnt seem to be the case here that 
the seller hasnt shown an intent to work with Miss G to put things right. And it isnt 
implausible that the seller was told to stop communicating with Miss G after shed reported 
the matter to the authorities.
Ive considered here that the price of the vehicle was considerably cheaper than the trade 
guides, which suggest a price for a vehicle of this type and mileage to be between £11,000-
£12,000. Im mindful that a vehicle being sold for a low price can, sometimes but not always, 
be indicative of a scam. But equally and relevant here, the seller has said to Miss G that the 
price was such due to it being a Category S, and that the price would have been higher had 
it not been for that, which is not an unreasonable explanation.
Miss G has said the seller told her to pay a small amount first and then pay the rest. I dont 
disagree with Miss Gs representative that in situations where people have been defrauded, 
a payment pattern can sometimes start with a lower value transaction. But this, in and of 
itself, isnt enough for me to safely conclude that the seller set out with an intent to defraud 
Miss G. And importantly, whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the 
nature of their relationship, Ive also considered the beneficiary bank account, where       
Miss Gs money was sent. The evidence Ive seen from the beneficiary bank doesnt raise 
any concerns of any other reports of fraud, or concerns that the account is being used for 
anything but legitimate purposes.
I am mindful that Miss G has said she has raised the matter with the Police and it may be  
questionable why the seller gave Miss G the V62 form instead of the logbook. But I am not 
aware that there have been any charges or offences brought ,and as Ive explained above, it 
seems that Miss G can take the steps to register the vehicle in her name.Overall and on balance, based on what Ive seen. Im not persuaded that this situation 
displays the hallmarks most typically associated with a scam. It follows that, I cant safely 
say that this would likely meet the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. This is 
not to say that there is no issue at all between Miss G and the seller, clearly there is. But this 
type of dispute isnt something that the CRM Code covers. So I dont think it was unfair for 
Santander to take the view that it was unable to refund Miss G under the CRM Code.
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish what Miss G has been through. She has my 
sympathy, in that she hasnt received a vehicle that was in the condition she had hoped for. 
But overall, I dont think Santander has treated Miss G unfairly when it concluded this was a 
civil matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman