DRN-1350710
 
The complaint
Miss S says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about ten instalment loans Sunny provided to Miss S between January 
2017 and July 2018.  Miss S borrowed amounts ranging from £50 to £250 to be repaid in six 
monthly instalments. Several of the loans overlapped so that Miss S had to repay more than 
one loan a month. There were no significant breaks in Miss Ss borrowing from Sunny and 
so she borrowed continuously for 18 months. Miss S repaid all her loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ss complaint in part and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed. It offered redress for loans eight to 
ten but Miss S was unhappy with that. And so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
Sunny asked Miss S for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Miss S said she earned £2,000 a month. She said her monthly outgoings were 
between about £1,200 and £1,800. From what I can see, there was nothing untoward in her 
credit file that should have prompted further checks. 
For loans one to four, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ss 
circumstances at the time and her history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information Miss S provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Miss S was saying. From the information Miss S provided it looked as if loans 
one to four were affordable for her. So I cant say it was wrong for Sunny to have provided 
loans one to four. 
But I think Sunny should have made better checks for loan five. This was Miss Ss fifth loan 
in 10 months. And so I think Sunny should have looked more closely at her financial 
circumstances, for example by looking at her bank statements, to verify what Miss S had told 
it. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan five would most likely have 
shown that Miss S was having problems managing her money. This was because Miss S 
had at least one outstanding loan with another short-term lender and two outstanding loans 
with Sunny.
So I think Sunny should have realised that Miss S would be unable to sustainably repay loan 
five, or any subsequent loans. And so I think it was wrong to have approved them. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ss case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan six. I say this because the pattern of Miss Ss borrowing showed that she was 
persistently reliant on short-term loans:
By loan six, Miss S had taken six instalment loans in ten months. The amount she 
borrowed stayed roughly the same.For loan six, Miss S was provided with a new loan whilst she already had three 
others open with Sunny. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Miss S was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans 
was leaving in her finances and so Miss Ss indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
So I think the pattern of Miss Ss borrowing showed that the loans were unsustainable. And I 
think Sunny shouldnt have provided loans six to ten. 
I think that Miss S lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ss indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Miss Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans five to ten and I think Sunny should put things 
right.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Sunny should:
refund all interest and charges Miss S paid on loans five to ten;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan five from Miss Ss credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans six to ten should be removed from 
Miss Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Miss Ss complaint. I 
require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Miss S compensation 
as set out above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman