DRN-2286104
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the settlement amount that Ageas Insurance Limited has paid him for 
his car, after it was involved in an accident and written off. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them in detail 
again here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
In summary, Mr A argues that the cost of an equivalent car in his area is more than the 
settlement amount Ageas has paid him. And that his car was worth more due to the extras 
he had added to it. He asked for a decision as he said we hadnt looked at his case 
sympathetically and that he didnt expect to lose money on the car when it was written off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I feel its important to set out to Mr A that we are impartial, our role isnt to sympathise with 
the customer. While we can empathise with a customer and the situation they are in, we 
cant let that influence the outcome we reach. We would only look to uphold a case where 
the business involved has done something wrong, not simply where the customer has lost 
out  as this can unfortunately happen, even when a business acts correctly.
Having reviewed the facts and evidence of this case, I agree with the conclusions reached 
by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive verified that the amount Ageas has offered is within the range of prices that the 
four industry recognised guides suggest for this type of car. So on that basis, I think 
the settlement is fair. The details entered match the type, age and mileage of Mr As 
car; and I havent seen anything in the circumstances of this case to suggest Ageas 
should be paying him an amount closer to the top of this price range.
I understand Mr A says an equivalent car costs more in his area and Ive seen the 
photograph hes provided to evidence this. However the policy terms dont specify 
that they will match prices in his specific area. So I cant agree Ageas needs to pay 
him more because hes seen more expensive, equivalent cars locally, or because he 
says he cant travel elsewhere.
The policy terms set out that they will pay the market value  which means Mr A will 
get sufficient funds to replace his car. Mr A argues he hasnt received this. But as the 
industry guides show he could get an equivalent car for the amount offered, if not for 
less, I cant say Ageas has done anything wrong by paying him the amount it has.
The modifications Mr A has made to the car (such as new mud flaps and door 
scuffing strips) arent considered as extras for the purposes of the valuation. These 
extras would be more substantial changes, such as an enhanced entertainment 
system. So smaller, protective additions or replacement, equivalent parts wouldnt 
meet this criteria. While I appreciate the modifications Mr A made cost him money 
and may have helped protect the car from some types of damage, they arent listed 
extras for the purposes of the industry guides. And where possible, we did select that 
Mr As car was in better than average condition when entering the details in the 
industry guides  which is what these parts would contribute to. But they still 
generated the same price range as Ageas results. So Mr A informing us he 
added/replaced these parts doesnt change my opinion that the amount offered is 
fair.
Ageas deducted an amount from the settlement due to Mr As car not having a valid 
MOT. I accept it can do this, as this would impact the value of the car. And in this 
case, Ageas reduction is less than what I wouldve said it could have reduced the 
settlement by, so I think it has acted fairly here. I appreciate Mr A said he couldnt get 
the MOT due to the pandemic, but his MOT expired in February 2020, so at a time 
when MOT garages were still open and allowed to operate. So this doesnt change 
my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman