DRN-2098656
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the experience he had following him making a claim under his 
motor insurance provided by UK Insurance Limited (UKI).
I will be referring to any of UKIs agents as UKI throughout this decision.
What happened
The rear window of Mr Bs car was broken, and his hi-fi equipment was stolen. So, Mr B 
contacted his motor insurance provider UKI to make a claim.
UKI refused to pay for the stolen hi-fi equipment as it said the equipment wasnt covered 
under his policy. But Mr B was able to claim for the damage caused to the window.
Mr Bs car was taken away as it couldnt be repaired on the day, and without being repaired 
the car wouldnt have been left secure. Mr B was told his car would be returned and the 
glass replaced at home twice, but this never happened. 
For the first week Mr B didnt have his car an alternative wasnt provided. UKI then provided 
a small car for Mr B to use, although he has told us he had to take time off work as the car 
wasnt suitable. He also lost time with friends as he was unable to fit his bike in the car that 
was provided.
Mr Bs car wasnt returned to him until around four weeks after the damage was first 
reported, and UKI appear to have been unable to see where the car was during this period.
Mr B has told us that when the car was eventually returned to him there was glass on the 
back seat, water had got in causing a damp smell, there was cosmetic damage, damage to 
the CV joint, and items had been stolen from inside the car. He also said that his car had 
been used by the garage.
UKI agreed that water must have got into the car between the time the glass was broken, 
and when the glass was replaced, so it agreed to have Mr Bs car professionally cleaned to 
return it to its previous condition.
UKI didnt agree that the cosmetic damage on Mr Bs car happened while in its care, but it 
did agree to have these areas repaired.
UKI also looked at the damage to the CV joint. An engineer considered this and didnt think it 
had happened as a result of something the garage had done wrong. There was damage 
noted to this area of the car on its last MOT, and the engineer felt the damage would have 
been caused by wear and tear. Based on this UKI refused to cover the cost of this repair.
UKI explained to Mr B that his car was kept within a gated area under CCTV surveillance 
and there was no evidence that items had been stolen from the car whilst in its care.
UKI accepted Mr B didnt receive the standard of service he should have expected. In total it 
paid Mr B £300 compensation.
Our Investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint and felt UKI had done enough to resolve it. Mr B 
disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
cover for hi-fi equipment
Mr B says he was told his hi-fi equipment was covered by his policy so he should be able to 
claim for it. But UKI has told us it hasnt been able to find any call recording where this 
conversation took place. Mr Bs motor insurance policy also states:
Accessories  parts or products specifically designed to be fitted to your car. We may treat 
some accessories as modifications, so please tell us about any alterations to your car.
The policy goes on to define modifications as:
Modifications  any changes to your cars standard specification, including optional extras. 
These include, but are not restricted to, changes to the appearance and/or the performance 
of your car (including wheels, suspension, bodywork and engine) and include changes made 
to your car by the previous owner(s).
From the information available I dont think there is enough to say Mr B did make UKI aware 
of the non-standard hi-fi equipment in the car. So, I think it has made a reasonable decision 
not to pay this part of the claim.
additional damage to the car
When Mr Bs car was returned there was cosmetic damage to the car that wasnt apparent 
before. UKI has not accepted this damage happened while the car was in its care, but it has 
agreed to carry out the necessary repairs. I think this is reasonable. 
Mr B also explained that the CV joint on his car was damaged by UKI. An engineer looked at 
Mr Bs car but thought the damage was due to wear and tear. This was also supported by 
damage to this area of Mr Bs car being highlighted on the last MOT. As Mr B hasnt been 
able to provide evidence that he had this issue fixed I dont think it would be fair for me to 
ask UKI to cover the repair.
delay in returning Mr Bs car and car being used by the garage
Mr B was left without his car for around four weeks. This does seem like a long time when 
considering it originally only needed a glass repair. I wouldnt expect this type of repair to 
take so long. 
Under the section of Mr Bs policy that covers the windows there is no provision for a 
courtesy car, so I wouldnt expect one to be provided under usual circumstances. I 
understand UKI provided a courtesy car to Mr B after the first week. I appreciate it would 
have been inconvenient for Mr B to be without his car, but the circumstance would always 
have caused some inconvenience, and although Mr B wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under the policy, I think UKI have attempted to minimise the impact of this by providing one to him, 
even though it may not have been as suitable for him as his own car.
It is also not uncommon for a garage to move a car around while in its care. I dont think 
there is enough evidence to show Mr Bs car was used unreasonably while in the care of 
UKI.
water damage
When Mr Bs car was returned water had got inside and glass was found on the back seat. 
UKI accepted this must have happened between the time the car was taken by it and 
returned to Mr B. UKI has agreed to cover the cost of Mr Bs car being professionally 
cleaned and I think this will return Mr Bs car to its former condition so, I think this is a fair 
resolution.
items stolen from Mr Bs car
Mr B has explained that when his car was returned several items were missing. UKI has said 
that the car was kept in a secure area under 24-hour CCTV surveillance. So, it doesnt think 
these items were stolen while the car was in its care.
UKI has also provided condition reports made at the time Mr Bs car was taken away. The 
reports have a section for any items left in the car to be selected on the form, but none of the 
options other than the keys and wheels were selected.
In addition to this Mr B hasnt provided enough evidence to show the items he is claiming for 
were in the car at the time. With all the information considered I dont have enough to make 
UKI responsible for the theft of the items Mr B has told us were left in his car.
 
Its clear that the overall service UKI provided to Mr B was lower than he should have 
expected. But I think the way UKI has dealt with the errors are reasonable. And while I 
appreciate the inconvenience UKI has caused Mr B it has also offered him a total of £300 
compensation which I think is fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman