DRN-2351209
The complaint
Mr K complains (through his representative Mr T) that Ageas Insurance Limited has 
mishandled his claim on a business insurance policy.
What happened
A consumer complaint must be made to the insurance company or other regulated financial 
firm before the Financial Ombudsman Service can - under the rules by which we are bound -   
deal with such a complaint. 
Where it is a complaint about a claim under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint 
against the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with that claim. In our final 
decision we name that insurance company, but we dont name any other party.
We can only direct an insurance company to pay compensation to a policyholder for financial 
loss or distress and inconvenience suffered by that policyholder.
Under Mr Ks policy, Ageas was the insurance company that was responsible for dealing 
with claims. Where I refer to Ageas or the insurer, I include claims-handlers and others 
insofar as I hold Ageas responsible for their actions.
On 17 July 2019 Mr K reported that someone had stolen tools from his van. Ageas declined 
his claim on the grounds that there had been no violent and forcible entry.
Mr K complained to Ageas. It wrote a final response letter dated 22 July 2019. Mr K brought 
his complaint to us in September 2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Ageas decision to decline the claim was reasonable.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K 
and to Ageas on 29 October 2020. I summarise my findings:
I found it fair and reasonable to read the policy schedule endorsement as a 
statement of what is covered  whether or not it would otherwise be covered by 
Cause 4.
Rather than Mr K having left it unlocked - I find it more likely that a thief found a way 
of unlocking the van without damaging it.
So I find that Ageas has treated Mr K unfairly by declining his claim on the ground 
that there had been no forcible or violent entry.
Subject to any further information from Mr K or from Ageas, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Ageas Insurance Limited to:
1. deal with Mr Ks claim for theft of tools in line with the policy terms and policy 
endorsement but without reference to any requirement for actual or threatened use of 
force or violence;
2. pay Mr K simple interest on any settlement of his claim at a yearly rate of 8% from 22 
July 2019 to the date of payment. If Ageas considers that HM Revenue and Customs 
requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr K how much its 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. pay Mr K £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
On behalf of Mr K, his representative Mr T disagrees with the provisional decision in part. He 
says, in summary, that:
Business Interruption
Mr K did request compensation in his calls with them for interruption cover, this was 
verbally rejected because the loss of tools cover was rejected. He ordered the 
replacement tools (which arrived 7 days after loss) whilst on honeymoon, so as to 
minimise earnings loss upon his return.
Theft of Tools
The Ombudsman is not explicit in the Provisional decision summary that Mr Ks loss 
of tools is covered: after the Ombudsmans reasoning is detailed, including being 
minded to direct a payment of £3,000, item 1 of the decision merely states that the 
claim is dealt with in terms of the policy without reference to forced entry. Perhaps 
the Ombudsman should make it explicit that the loss of tools is covered in the 
decision.
Ageas agrees with the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Business Interruption
Mr K had Business Interruption cover. That operated by compensation of either a reduction 
in his standard income or an increase in his costs of working. The policy limit was 
£50,000.00.
I dont think Mr K made any detailed claim for business interruption before Ageas wrote the 
final response letter dated 22 July 2019. Mr Ts letter later that month spoke of mitigating any 
such claim. When he brought the complaint to us, his dossier included a claim for the policy 
limit of £50,000 for 7 days  £959.
 
From what Mr T has said, Mr K was on honeymoon during that time. But if Mr K wishes to 
pursue a complaint about such a claim, then he should first pursue the claim (including 
details of his standard income) and the complaint with Ageas.Theft of Tools
Ive looked carefully at the policy terms and the policy schedule for the year to October 2019. 
The policy terms define Buildings as the buildings at the risk address shown on the 
Schedule. The schedule showed Mr Ks flat as the risk address. The policy terms define 
Premises as the Buildings and the land inside the boundaries at the risk address
The policy terms define Damage as Loss, destruction or damage. The inclusion of Loss 
means, in my view, that (for the purposes of this policy) Damage includes the financial 
damage of losing insured items by theft.
Section 1 of the policy is headed Material Damage. That, in my view, also includes the 
financial damage of losing insured items by theft. Section 1 sub-section F includes the 
following:
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of Damage to the items of 
Property shown on the Schedule from Cover Causes 1,2, 3 and 4 but not for the 
costs of preparing any claim.
The schedule includes cover for the following:
Section 1 - Material Damage Sub-section F  All risks: Tools £3,000.00
So Tools are the items of Property shown on the Schedule.
Cover Cause 4 is Theft and Attempted Theft. But it excludes the following:
theft    that does not involve entry or exit from the Buildings by forcible and violent 
means or that does not involve actual or threatened assault or violence or use of 
force at the Premises against the Insured.
So Cover Cause 4 only covers theft within the boundaries of the risk address. And it only 
covers a forcible burglary from the buildings or a robbery involving at least the threat of force 
against the Insured.
The policy terms contained Exclusions to Sub-Sections B and F relating to Cover Cause 4. 
But those exclusions arent relevant because - by a policy schedule endorsement - those 
exclusions were deleted and replaced as follows:
XB014 - Overnight Cover for Tools
In respect of Tools, Exclusions to Sub Sections B and F is deleted and restated as 
follows:
The Company shall not be liable for loss of or Damage to insured Tools left 
unattended from Cover Cause 4: a. unless contained in:
i. a securely locked building when away from the Premises or ii. an alarmed motor 
Vehicle which is closed and locked at all points of access, with all keys removed 
from the Vehicle and the security alarms and any immobiliser fitted to the Vehicle 
set between 21.00 hours and 06.00 hours or iii. a motor Vehicle which is closed and 
locked at all points of access, with all keys removed from the Vehicle and contained 
within a securely locked garage with all keys removed from the garage between 
21.00 hours and 06.00 hours or iv. a motor Vehicle which is closed and locked at all 
points of access, with all keys removed from the Vehicle and any security alarms 
and immobiliser fitted to the Vehicle set between 06.01 hours and 20.59 hoursThat policy endorsement is expressed as what the insurer would not be liable for from Cover 
Cause 4 theft of tools left unattended.
 
But Cause 4 only covers theft within the boundaries of the risk address. Yet the 
endorsement suggests that tools will be covered in a locked building away from the 
Premises. And vehicles are mobile and likely to be away from the Premises (especially 
between 06.01 and 20.59 hours). 
Also Cause 4 only covers a forcible burglary from the buildings or a robbery involving at least 
the threat of force against the Insured. So Cause 4 is unlikely to cover a theft of tools left in a 
vehicle parked outdoors unattended by the Insured.
For those reasons, I find it fair and reasonable to read the endorsement as a statement of 
what is covered  whether or not it would otherwise be covered by Cause 4.
Mr K is adamant that he locked his van before he left it parked outside his home. There was 
no evidence of force or violence used to gain entry into the van. But I havent found any 
policy term requiring forcible or violent entry into the van.
And  rather than Mr K having left it unlocked - I find it more likely that a thief found a way of 
unlocking the van without damaging it.
So I find that Ageas has treated Mr K unfairly by declining his claim on the ground that there 
had been no forcible or violent entry. It shouldve accepted that the policy covered the 
circumstances of the claim. And it shouldve gone on to consider the amount of the claim.
Putting things right
Ive seen written evidence of Mr Ks purchase of replacement tools totalling over £3,000.00. 
So Ive thought about directing Ageas to pay him £3,000.00 which is the limit in the 
schedule. But I dont think Ageas has yet considered the list of stolen tools or their values.
 
So I will direct Ageas to meet Mr Ks claim for theft of tools in line with the policy terms and 
policy endorsement - but without reference to any requirement for actual or threatened use 
of force or violence.
As Mr K has been out of pocket for replacement tools, I will direct Ageas to pay interest at 
our usual rate from the date of its final response letter.
As Section 1 sub-section F didnt cover the costs of preparing any claim, I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Ageas to pay his advisers costs of £200.00.
I consider that the unfair decision by Ageas has caused extra trouble and inconvenience to 
Mr K and Mr T. Under the rules, I cant direct compensation for Mr T. But I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct £150.00 compensation for Mr K.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Ageas Insurance Limited to:
1. meet Mr Ks claim for theft of tools in line with the policy terms and policy 
endorsement but without reference to any requirement for actual or threatened 
use of force or violence;2. pay Mr K simple interest on any settlement of his claim at a yearly rate of 8% 
from 22 July 2019 to the date of payment. If Ageas considers that HM Revenue 
and Customs requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr K 
how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate; and
3. pay Mr K £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman