DRN-3703944
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc declined their request to port 
(transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage on a different property. 
To settle the complaint, they have asked Barclays to compensate them for their losses.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 17 May 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs R being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs R had an interest-only mortgage of £316,000 taken out in 2013, the majority of 
which (£285,000) which was on a lifetime tracker interest rate of 1.25% above Barclays Bank 
Base Rate (BBBR). This rate generally tracked Bank of England Base Rate (BoEBR) and so 
BBBR would fluctuate in line with movement in BoEBR. The end date of the mortgage was 
March 2023. The early repayment charge expired in 2014.
In March 2021 Mr and Mrs R wanted to move to another property, downsizing, and to port 
their mortgage interest rate onto another mortgage on their new property. However, Barclays 
declined the request, on the basis of affordability. Mr and Mrs R complained, but Barclays 
didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs R referred it to our service.
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs R took out another mortgage with a different lender, over the 
minimum term allowed for a mortgage of five years. They had to borrow slightly less than 
their Barclays mortgage, but were able to fix the interest rate at 1.24% for the five-year term.
An investigator looked at what had happened and thought the complaint should be upheld. 
She was satisfied that Barclays should have allowed the interest rate to be ported. This is 
because the transitional arrangements put in place by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
in relation to porting meant that Barclays didnt need to carry out an affordability assessment 
if the port was in Mr and Mrs Rs best interests. 
However, the investigator noted that Mr and Mrs R were actually better off by having taken 
out their new mortgage because the interest rate was fixed, and was lower than the rate on 
the Barclays mortgage. Mr and Mrs R had, however, lost out by having to withdraw savings 
to complete their purchase, due to their new mortgage being lower than the Barclays 
mortgage, which they wouldnt have done if theyd been able to port their mortgage in full.
The investigator asked Barclays to refund the product fee of £999 and broker fee of £250 
that Mr and Mrs R had paid, and pay £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs R accepted the investigators findings, but Barclays did not, reiterating that the 
application didnt pass its affordability criteria. The investigator reiterated her reasons for 
upholding the complaint, but no response was received from Barclays. As the matter is 
unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has 
led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending 
assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are contained 
in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go down. If 
theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, theres no 
obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And if there is a change to the terms 
of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a lender could still decide to allow an 
application without an affordability assessment if doing so would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
In this case, there was an increase in the loan-to-value ratio, which is considered a material 
change to the mortgage contract. In the circumstances, taking into account the transitional arrangements set out in MCOB, Barclays had the option of foregoing an affordability 
assessment if the transaction was in Mr and Mrs Rs best interests. 
From the available evidence, I cant see that Barclays properly considered the transitional 
arrangements as they applied to Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances. I think that if Barclays had 
done so, and applied the best interests test, the application should have been approved. 
Although Ive noted Barclays concerns about affordability, after taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Rs overall financial circumstances, Im satisfied that this was a low risk 
transaction and so should have been allowed in Mr and Mrs Rs best interests.
Mr and Mrs R had to arrange a mortgage with another lender, incurring fees to do so. Their 
new mortgage, however, is at a fixed rate for five years which is lower than the rate on their 
Barclays mortgage. In the circumstances, Mr and Mrs R havent suffered any financial loss in 
relation to their mortgage repayments  in fact they have gained a benefit. 
Their new mortgage is at a lower interest rate (1.24%) than the margin over BBBR (1.25%) 
on their previous mortgage. Due to recent movement in BoEBR, if theyd kept their Barclays 
mortgage, the interest rate on it would be substantially higher than the fixed rate 
Mr and Mrs R were able to secure. I would imagine that, with hindsight, they are probably 
happy with the choice they made to re-mortgage elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs R needed to top up their purchase from their savings, and that was their 
decision. They will benefit from the use of those savings towards their purchase in any 
increase in value of the property, so Im not ordering Barclays to compensate them for this.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that Barclays should reimburse Mr and Mrs R for the broker fee 
of £250 and the product fee of £999 they incurred, as these are fees they would not 
otherwise have had to pay if the port had gone ahead. Im also satisfied Barclays should 
make a payment for distress and inconvenience, and that a payment of £300 would be 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to settle the 
complaint as detailed above. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman