DRN-3310025
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC sent her a letter asking for her residency status.
What happened
Mrs C says Lloyds sent her a letter asking for her residency status for tax purposes. She 
says the letter suggested she either lived abroad or had a foreign account, both of which are 
not correct. Mrs C says the letter caused her anxiety and distress and is concerned about 
the impact of these letters on others. She says she has been offered £50 compensation by 
Lloyds which she says isnt enough for what took place.
Lloyds says its obliged to send the letters where it doesnt have the requested information. It 
says if Mrs C will not complete the form, then it will continue to send requests. Lloyds says it 
has paid Mrs C £50 compensation for any distress caused.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained that we are not Lloyds regulator and so its not our role to tell it how it complies 
with its regulatory duty. The investigator thought the compensation appropriate.
Mrs C doesnt accept that view and says she has received a further letter. She says she will 
not provide Lloyds with the information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly she feels 
about what took place.
We are not Lloyds regulator which means it is not our role to tell it how it complies with its 
regulatory duties. I am sure Mrs C appreciates that banks and building societies are required 
to obtain information about its customers and if necessary, update other organisations. Im 
satisfied that is what took place here and that Lloyds has confirmed it didnt have details of 
Mrs Cs residency status. So, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or made a mistake by asking 
Mrs C to confirm her status.
I appreciate that request would have caused some inconvenience for Mrs C in completing 
the request. But I can see Lloyds has fairly paid £50 compensation in circumstances where I 
dont think it made a mistake. I also dont think the information request was particularly 
onerous and think that Lloyds will continue to ask Mrs C for the information.
I also appreciate Mrs C says she is concerned about other Lloyds customers that may 
receive similar letters. But I make clear to Mrs C that I can only consider her complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds has fairly explained to Mrs C why it sent the letter and why it 
requires the information. I dont see why that request should cause any trouble or upset and 
so I think this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman