DRN-4323774
The complaint
Miss R complains about how Marshmallow Insurance Limited (Marshmallow) handled a 
claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss R had a motor insurance policy with Marshmallow covering her car. She was involved 
in a collision in early November 2022 and she contacted Marshmallow and made a claim.
The details of what happened are well known to both parties and I wont go through them in 
detail here. I will briefly say that Marshmallow delayed her claim significantly, with the repairs 
only being done by the end of March 2023.
She complained to Marshmallow. It upheld her complaint and paid her £175 compensation.
Miss R remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks for additional 
compensation. Our investigator looked into it and upheld it. He thought Marshmallow should 
pay Miss R a total of £500 compensation because itd caused her substantial distress and 
inconvenience.
Miss R didnt agree with the view as she thought that the compensation amount should be 
higher. Marshmallow agreed with the view.
Because Miss R didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence Ive been provided I can see that Miss Rs claims experience with 
Marshmallow was poor. It caused delays at seemingly every step of the process, and it didnt 
reply to Miss R or pro-actively contact her throughout the process. 
Im upholding Miss Rs complaint. But Im not going to ask Marshmallow to pay more 
compensation and Ill explain why.
I can see that Miss R has made separate complaints to Marshmallow about its service 
around injuries she suffered during the collision, some additional damage to her car it 
refused to consider as part of this claim, about it renewing her policy even though shed 
asked it not to, and about the quality of the repairs it carried out.
Im not able to consider these matters further here because I cant see Marshmallow has 
issued its final response about them. Miss R should ensure shes complained to 
Marshmallow about these points, and received its final response, and then she can make an 
approach to this service in due course if she remains unhappy.
Having read Marshmallows claims notes, I can see that it delayed the claim significantly. 
This seems to have been due to the injuries reported by Miss R and the third-party driver 
causing her claims for repairs to be put, effectively, on hold.
Claims need to be validated, but the need to do this shouldnt put their own policy holder in a 
worse position. The repairs to the third-partys car were apparently done within about a 
month of the collision, but Marshmallow kept Miss R waiting considerably longer and I find 
this very poor service by Marshmallow.
It took Marshmallow about four months to begin work on Miss Rs car because of the delays 
it caused, and I dont think this is fair.
I can see that Miss R was chasing Marshmallow regularly for updates, but Marshmallow 
didnt contact her or call her back when it promised. 
Ive thought about the impact on Miss R from Marshmallows service. I can see in her 
communications with Marshmallow that shes suffered distress and some inconvenience 
over an extended period. Her frustration with Marshmallows processes is evident. 
Its important that I say I cant take into account her frustrations about the other complaints 
shes made into account. Im only able to provide this decision about the poor 
communications and delays about the claim.
Ive looked at this services guidelines for compensation, and I think the amount of £500 for 
Miss Rs distress and inconvenience is appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I direct Marshmallow Insurance Limited to pay Miss R £500 for her distress and 
inconvenience from its poor claims service. Im aware £175 has already been paid, so this 
can be deducted.
Marshmallow Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Miss R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman