DRN-1422517
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr R says Capital One (Capital One) mis-sold him the policy.
What happened
In 2001 Mr R applied for a credit card and PPI policy over the telephone.
Mr R has now complained that the PPI was mis-sold but Capital One hasnt upheld his 
complaint. 
Capital One also considered if any excess commissions and profit share which was part of 
the premiums should be refunded but said no refund for excess commission was due.
Mr R wasnt happy with Capital Ones response so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Mr R remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and shall explain why.
Mr R applied for the credit card and the PPI over the telephone. Capital One do not have a 
recording of the call as it was so long ago. But at the time it had in place a call process which 
indicates the information that would have been given to Mr R. 
Documents were sent out to Mr R to complete his application which he had to return. He 
signed these on 28 August 2001 and the credit and PPI started in September 2001.
I cannot be certain exactly what was said over the telephone and whether full information 
about the PPI was given to Mr R. He says it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional and he 
wouldnt have taken the PPI if he had known he didnt have to. I dont doubt that what Mr R 
has told us is his honest recollection of what happened when the policy was sold to him. But 
given the passage of time since this all happened memories can fade.
Capital One had a standard sales process in place which it says would have been followed 
and Mr R would have been given a choice whether to take the PPI or not. As there is no 
record of the phone call after so many years, again I cannot be certain the process would have been followed correctly. So, I have to consider the surrounding facts available and 
make my decision based on what most likely may have happened.
Before Mr R signed the credit card application form it was sent with information in the post.  I 
can see this from the form provided as it required him to return the documents in the post. 
So, Mr R had a second opportunity to consider what he was applying for when he received 
the documents. 
Also, the PPI was cancelled by Mr R in 2002, although the credit card account remained 
open with a balance until December 2003. So Mr R clearly was aware he could cancel the 
policy.
Taking account of the information from both sides I think Mr R most likely was given a choice 
and did agree to take out the PPI. 
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. But it did have to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to allow 
him to decide if the PPI was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it looks like 
he was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, 
the PPI cover. For example, he had no unusual medical conditions he already knew about 
that could have limited claims for sickness. So, the policy would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong.
Mr Rs employer would pay some sick pay if he was unwell. But the PPI wouldve paid a 
benefit in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer. Mr R has also said he could rely 
on family and some savings he had. However, it could never be certain what may happen 
and if his family would be able to help at a particular moment. And any savings, and also 
sick pay, would have been needed to pay other living expenses if Mr R wasnt able to work.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable and the benefit that could have been paid in the 
event of a claim was reasonable taking account of the cost of the PPI.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr R off taking out the cover. So, it follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold 
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by Capital One. 
However, the rules and guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct Authority relating to 
this only affect credit taken out after 6 April 2007 or if taken out before this date then still 
running on 6 April 2008. As Mr R took out his credit card in 2001 and it was closed in 2003 
these rules do not apply. So, no excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold to Mr R. Also, no commission or profit share is due to be refunded under the 
relevant rules. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.Chris Fraser
Ombudsman