DRN-3812324
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
dealt with a claim they made on a buildings insurance policy for blocked and damaged 
underground pipes. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T noticed problems with their drains and registered a claim with RSA. After a 
short delay, RSA sent out a contractor to inspect the drains. The report provided to RSA 
showed that two drains were blocked due to tree root ingress but a third, was blocked due to 
it having pitch fibre pipework that had deteriorated over time.  RSA offered Mr and Mrs T a 
cash settlement to put right the damage on the two drains it would cover. 
Mr and Mrs T were not happy to accept the cash settlement and discussed the matter further 
with RSA.  There were some further delays in RSAs consideration of the claim and by the 
time it instructed a contractor to undertake repairs, Mr and Mrs T had already arranged for 
them to be done privately.  
Mr and Mrs T complained to RSA about how the claim had been handled. RSA accepted 
there were delays and instances of poor communication and offered Mr and Mrs T £250 
compensation.  Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought RSA should increase the compensation 
amount to £350 as he didnt feel RSA had taken into account the impact its delays had had 
on Mr and Mrs T.  However RSA disagreed and, after reconsidering the complaint, the 
investigator let Mr and Mrs T know he no longer thought they should receive an increased 
amount of compensation. 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
My provisional findings
I wrote to both parties on 4 November 2022 letting them know I intended to uphold the 
complaint and direct RSA to pay an increased amount of compensation of £350. I said this 
for the following reasons:
There would have always been a delay in a contractor being able to visit Mr and Mrs 
Ts property initially, so I think RSA arranged this as soon as it was able to. 
The decision RSA made on the claim and extent of repairs was made quickly. From 
the evidence available on file, Im persuaded this was the correct decision. And, I 
think the cash settlement offered was also a fair amount.
I dont think RSA communicated with Mr and Mrs T clearly and there were delays and 
confusion caused. Contractors should have been instructed at the start of September 
to contact Mr and Mrs T to offer to repair the covered drains, but RSA didnt do this 
promptly. When it did do so, the repairs had already been arranged privately by Mr 
and Mrs T. An email Mr T had sent to RSA explaining the action he was taking wasnt 
received by the case handler and therefore the contractor still attended the property 
when it didnt need to  causing further confusion for Mr and Mrs T.  
Mrs T was suffering from mobility issues and it was important the repairs were 
undertaken quickly. This didnt happen and therefore Im satisfied further 
inconvenience was caused.  
RSA responded saying it was happy to accept my recommendation. Mr and Mrs T did not 
respond or provide any further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I see no reason to change the conclusions I outlined in my original 
findings. Im satisfied RSA reached the correct outcome regarding the drainage claim Mr and 
Mrs T made. However, Im not satisfied it dealt with the claim in a reasonable manner and as 
such, this caused Mr and Mrs T trouble and upset. 
So, for the reasons above, and those set out in my provisional findings, I uphold this 
complaint and direct RSA to pay £350 compensation to Mr and Mrs T.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited. I direct it to make a payment of £350 compensation to Mr and Mrs T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman