DRN-1705335
Complaint
Mr P complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) provided poor customer service when it 
repeatedly sent him text messages advising of his credit card account balance. 
Background
Mr P held a credit card with Vanquis and following receipt of several text messages about 
his outstanding balance he decided to call Vanquis to stop this happening again, as he felt it 
was interfering with his social life. Mr P felt that during his telephone call to Vanquis the 
agent was arrogant and unhelpful and refused to remove his telephone details from their 
system. Mr P also said the agent at Vanquis came across as patronising when suggesting 
Mr P should set up a direct debit each month to help manage his credit card.  
Vanquis says they do not feel their agent was either arrogant or unhelpful and acted 
professionally during the call. Vanquis say the agent offered a direct debit payment as a 
means to avoid future text messages being sent. Vanquis also said they had removed his 
mobile telephone details from their system but the text alerts system exists as a means to 
avoid customers exceeding their credit card limits. 
Mr P wasnt happy with Vanquis response and referred the matter to this service.  The 
investigator gathered all the evidence available, including a number of call recordings, but 
didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint as she felt that the agent for Vanquis hadnt been unhelpful 
and the all the telephone calls she reviewed seemed amicable. The investigator said that 
Vanquis had removed his mobile phone details from its system, as Mr P had instructed. 
Mr P wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I will explain how I have come to my decision.
When considering Mr Ps complaint I have considered if Vanquis handled the complaint 
about the text messages politely and fairly, when Mr P telephoned them. 
Whilst I can understand that receiving text messages from your bank when out socializing is 
frustrating  it is a system put in place by most banks, including Vanquis, to alert customers 
of potential account breaches and to avoid any charges as a result. On balance, I am 
satisfied Vanquis were  trying to ensure these types of problems didnt recur, given Mr P had 
previous experience of his credit card account exceeding his limit and late payments to his 
card.When considering Mr Ps complaint that Vanquis staff was rude or arrogant when dealing 
with him on the telephone, I listened to a number of the phone calls between him and 
Vanquis.
On listening to the telephone call to Vanquis that Mr P refers to in his complaint - along with 
others, on each occasion I was satisfied that they were amicable in nature and dealt with 
professionally by Vanquis staff. During the call in question, when Mr P mentions the 
recurring text messages, while the agent initially mentions he cant remove the text/sms 
messaging service, he did offer and effected the removal of Mr Ps mobile telephone number 
from its system to overcome this, which Mr P agreed to. During the call the agent suggested 
to Mr P the idea of setting up a direct debit so that he didnt receive further text alert 
messages. The agent said this would avoid the possibility of late payments and exceeding 
his credit card limit which had been evident on a number of occasions before.  
I am satisfied that the agent was acting in Mr Ps interest and trying to avoid future text 
messages and the possibility of charges to his credit card account. I cant see any evidence 
to suggest that the agent or any other members of Vanquis staff that spoke with Mr P were 
rude or threatening as described by Mr P. 
While Mr P will be unhappy with my decision, it follows that I wont be asking anything more 
of Vanquis.
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29July2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman