DRN-2311772
The complaint
Mr K complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has only offered to partially settle his travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the background to this complaint, so I have only provided a brief 
summary of what happened below. 
Mr K took out a travel insurance policy with Ageas and made a claim on it, after becoming 
unwell and being admitted into hospital whilst abroad.
Ageas began to provide initial assistance, but before confirming full coverage it requested 
further information about Mr Ks health. Upon receipt of information from his GP, Ageas said 
that when asked about his medical history during the policys sales call, Mr K had failed to 
disclose a mental health condition and indigestion, both of which he was in receipt of 
medication for. It considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to only pay a percentage of his claim. 
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying careless misrepresentation, and explained that Ageas 
was entitled to proportionately settle the claim. 
Mr K doesnt agree with the investigator. He says Ageas hadnt asked him clear or specific 
questions during the sales call. He says its revised premium is arbitrary and discriminatory, 
and hed obtained a lower quote from a different insurer. And he says that the relevant rules 
and industry guidelines have been misapplied in his case, and both a decision issued by this 
service (on another consumers complaint) and a news article support his position.  
So, as no agreement has been reached the matter is now with me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings will only address those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. So, although I have considered everything, I may not explicitly address every 
point or argument put forward and I trust that wont be taken as a matter of discourtesy.  
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This Act requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care and misrepresents their position, an insurer has 
certain remedies it can take providing the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a 
qualifying one. For the misrepresentation to be qualifying, the insurer has to show that it 
would have offered the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made 
the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Ageas thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation by not 
disclosing a mental health condition and indigestion, both of which he was in receipt of 
medication for, when his policy was sold. Ive listened to the sales call, and having done so 
note that Ageas call handler began by explaining:
Before I take any details from you its important that you understand the information that you 
give must be true and correct. If you dont disclose the relevant information the policy may 
not meet your needs, it could be invalidated, or a claim may not be paid.
The call handler asked a number of questions about Mr Ks health. They set out he had to 
declare any existing conditions in order to establish if cover could be provided and, at what 
premium. And in explaining this also said:
If youre uncertain about anything and whether it should be declared, or whether its classed 
as existing, please check with your GP.
Mr K disclosed a number of pre-existing conditions during the sales call. And having 
summarised the conditions that hed disclosed thus far, the call handler asked Mr K if there 
was anything else to which he said, No thats all. The call handler then asked, theres 
nothing else on prescription, no medications or anything? to which Mr K answered No. 
And the call handler also said, So Ill just remind you as you answered yes to the earlier 
declaration, you have now declared all your medical conditions?, to which Mr K confirmed, 
Yes. 
Having listened to the sales call, I think clear and specific questions were asked. And I think 
Mr K was presented with a number of opportunities throughout the call to disclose any other 
existing conditions, as well as any prescribed medication. And so, based on the medical 
evidence available, I dont think it was unreasonable of Ageas to conclude that Mr K should 
have disclosed his mental health condition and his indigestion. 
Ageas has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that it would have charged 
a higher premium if Mr K had not made that misrepresentation. This means Im satisfied 
Mr Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Mr K did disclose some of his pre-existing conditions at the time of the sale and I appreciate 
that he says he assumed Ageas questions did not include mental health related matters. I 
dont think this assumption is enough to invalidate Mr Ks misrepresentation here, but I do 
think Mr Ks position is enough to demonstrate that his misrepresentation was a careless 
one; not a deliberate or reckless one. So I agree with Ageas classification of this 
misrepresentation being careless.
As Im satisfied that Mr Ks misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at 
the actions Ageas can take in accordance with CIDRA. 
In the event that an insurer would have charged more but there has already been a claim, in 
line with CIDRA it is entitled to pay the claim proportionately. Ageas has already shown it 
would have charged more for Mr Ks policy if it had been given the right information  it did 
so by rescreening the policy to include the mental health condition and indigestion and, as I set out above, by providing evidence from its underwriters to demonstrate it would have 
charged a higher premium. That premium was £193.74 compared to the £71.35 Mr K had 
originally paid.
Based on the information he did provide, Mr K paid 37% of what he would have paid had it 
not been for the careless misrepresentation. So, as Ageas has offered to pay 37% of his 
claim in a proportionate settlement, I am satisfied that the action it took was in accordance 
with the remedies available to it under CIDRA. 
I am aware that Mr K disagrees with the application of CIDRA and says the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Source Book (ICOBS) should apply to his case  specifically ICOBS 
8.1.2 which sets out that a rejection of a claim for breach of a condition or warranty is 
unreasonable, unless the circumstances of that claim are connected to the breach. 
I appreciate Mr Ks position on this. But Ageas has not rejected his claim, it has agreed to 
proportionately settle it. And for the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied that it was 
permitted to do so in in accordance with CIDRA. 
I am also aware that Mr K says he was able to obtain a cheaper quote from a different 
provider. As I think our investigator rightly explained, Ageas was within its rights to calculate 
the risk that Mr K may potentially present to it in line with its own underwriting criteria. I dont 
think its unusual that Mr K was able to source a cheaper quote elsewhere  because 
different insurers assess and apportion costs to risks differently. And I am not persuaded 
that the lower quote he was able to obtain from another insurer is evidence of Ageas acting 
unfairly in this complaint.  
While I empathise with Mr Ks position, in light of all of the above I think the actions Ageas 
has taken are in line with the remedies permitted to it under CIDRA. And I will not be 
interfering with its decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman