DRN-3346403
The complaint
This complaint is brought by the representatives of the estate of the late Mrs P, against Pearl 
Group Management Services Limited (under its trading name of Phoenix). The complaint 
has been dealt with by Mrs A, one of the representatives of the late Mrs Ps estate. For ease 
of reference, I will refer to Mrs A throughout this decision rather than both representatives.
Mrs A is unhappy at the fixed, rather than variable, rate of interest charged on an equity 
release mortgage taken out by Mrs P (and her late husband, Mr P). The mortgage is 
currently owned and administered by Pearl.
To settle the complaint, Mrs A wants Pearl to pay the estate damages for charging interest at 
rates inconsistent with representations made to Mr and Mrs P at the time the mortgage was 
taken out.
What happened
I will keep my summary of what happened fairly brief. What led up to the complaint being 
raised has been set out in detail in correspondence. In addition, our decisions are published, 
so its important I dont include any information that might lead to the identification of 
Mr and Mrs P or Mrs A.
Briefly, In September 2004 Mr and Mrs P took out an equity release mortgage on the advice 
of a mortgage broker (against whom a separate complaint has been raised, through the 
network which represents the broker). They borrowed £35,000 at a fixed rate of interest of 
6.69%. In common with this type of mortgage, no monthly repayment is due; instead interest 
rolls up into the total account balance, which is repayable on the death of the last surviving 
borrower. The mortgage completed on 25 October 2004.
Mr P passed away in 2005 and I am sorry to note that Mrs P passed away a few months 
ago. I am sure it has been very distressing for the family to have had to raise a complaint 
about this in the aftermath of Mrs Ps death. 
The original mortgage lender in 2004 was a business I will refer to as N. In March 2012 the 
mortgage was sold to another business, PM, in 2012, and in 2018 PM sold the mortgage to 
Pearl. 
Mrs A says that it was only after Mrs Ps death that a booklet entitled All about your 
mortgage (which I will refer to hereafter as the booklet) was found amongst Mrs Ps effects 
that referred to both fixed and variable rate interest rates options for the mortgage. The 
booklet had been issued by N in 2004. 
Mrs A says that shed never seen this booklet before and believes that setting the mortgage 
up on a fixed rate has caused financial loss to the estate. Mrs A doesnt accept that 
Mr and Mrs P chose for themselves the fixed rate, as they were financially unsophisticated. 
Mrs A also says that the solicitor who advised Mr and Mrs P about the transaction had not 
been provided with the booklet, and so wasnt able to give proper advice about the mortgage 
to his clients.
A complaint was raised, initially with N, that the mortgage had been mis-sold. N said it no 
longer held any paperwork and referred Mrs A to Pearl. However, Pearl explained that it 
wasnt party to the sales process or the set-up of the mortgage in 2004; its involvement with 
the account began in 2018. Pearl said that it had administered the account in line with the 
contract agreed in 2004.
Mrs A didnt accept what Pearl had said and raised a complaint with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened, but was satisfied that 
Pearl was only responsible for the account from 2018 onwards. Therefore, the way in which 
the loan had been set up wasnt Pearls responsibility. The investigator noted that Pearl had 
administered the loan in line with the account terms and conditions, including the fixed rate 
of interest. 
The investigator clarified that if Mrs A wanted to complain on behalf of the estate to N and 
PM, shed need to raise the complaints directly with those businesses in the first instance; if 
Mrs A wasnt happy with the responses from those businesses, or if she hadnt heard back 
within 8 weeks, then the complaints could be brought to us.
Mrs A didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mrs A said that she hadnt thought it necessary to complete complaint forms 
against each separate business. Mrs A also raised numerous queries about the mortgage 
documentation and the booklet issued in 2004 and about how the loan had been set up in 
2004.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mrs A would like 
answered, its not my role to put those questions to Pearl or act as a representative or 
go-between on this case.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr and Mrs P were 
consumers and so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. For the 
purposes of this complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an 
eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. 
In this respect, the representatives are bringing the complaint on the estates behalf, and as 
such are authorised by law to do so.
The crux of this case is that Mrs A says that, rather than a variable rate of interest being 
applied to the account, it was set up in 2004 on a fixed rate basis. Mrs A said that the first 
time she became aware that a variable rate might have been an option was after Mrs P had 
passed away and she found the booklet.
However, I must explain that, although Mrs A is representing the estate, it is Mr and Mrs P 
who were Pearls customers (or at least were at the time of the events complained about). Mrs As role is to bring the complaint on the estates behalf, in the same way that other 
consumers might instruct a relative, solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle Mrs A to air her own grievances about Pearl, because she is not its 
customer; Mrs As role is limited to putting forward the estates complaint.
Pearl wasnt responsible for the way in which the loan was set up. I note that N, the original 
lender, told Mrs A that it no longer held the original documents, and referred her to Pearl to 
answer her queries. However, Im satisfied Pearl isnt responsible for the actions of the 
original lender in 2004, and so any concerns Mrs A might have about what happened at the 
point of sale will need to be taken up with N.
I have noted that Mr and Mrs P never complained to Pearl about the rate of interest applied 
to their mortgage. Furthermore, it is important to explain here that I have also considered the 
estates complaint against the broker network which arranged the loan and I have issued a 
final decision today on that complaint. I made a finding in that complaint that the brokers 
contemporaneous records from 2004 were persuasive that Mrs A had confirmed to the 
broker on 1 September 2004 that Mr and Mrs P wanted a fixed rate of interest on their 
mortgage. 
Pearl had no responsibility for the administration of this mortgage until February 2018, when 
it took over the mortgage from PM. By that point the terms of the loan were embodied in the 
contract entered into in 2004 between Mr and Mrs P and N, including the fixed rate of 
interest applied to the loan. I have no power to vary, amend, overturn or interfere with the 
contract terms entered into in 2004. Only a court would be able to do that.
Pearl has, I find, administered the loan in accordance with the contract terms, on a fixed rate 
basis of 6.69%. Given this, Im unable to find that Pearl has done anything wrong. It follows, 
therefore, that no rebate of interest nor any damages are due to be paid to the estate by 
Pearl. 
Now this complaint has been concluded, the Executors will need to make arrangements to 
redeem the mortgage, which should have been repaid in February 2022. I would expect 
Pearl to allow three months from the date of this decision for the mortgage account to be 
redeemed in full. If the mortgage is not redeemed within that time, Pearl will be entitled to 
seek repayment from the estate through enforcement action. I trust, however, that this will 
not be necessary and that the debt owed by the estate to Pearl will be settled within three 
months.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman