DRN-3436832
The complaint
Mr L complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) didnt provide him 
with the support it should have when he encountered financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Mr L is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr L 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr L acquired a vehicle through a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in April 2019. He 
says he tried to speak with VWFS because of the financial impact the Covid-19 pandemic 
was having on his business, but he either couldnt get through or was put on hold and then 
cut off. He says he was sent letters about the debt accruing and the agreement was then 
cancelled.
Mr L says when he was able to make contact with VWFS it wasnt helpful and he was told 
that as his agreement had been cancelled he either had to return the vehicle which he 
needed for his work or pay a large amount of money which he didnt have. He says that 
when he was able to return to work, he asked for a new agreement and offered to repay the 
outstanding balance but VWFS werent sympathetic. He says VWFS eventually agreed to no 
action being taken until further advice from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had been 
received about how to treat customers in Mr Ls situation but it then sent recovery trucks to 
his address on two separate occasions. 
Mr L also complains that after settling the agreement he received letters saying he still owed 
money.
VWFS issued a final response letter in January 2021. It said that it provided Mr L notice of 
the arrears on his account and a notice of default. It apologised for the issues Mr L faced in 
trying to make contact by telephone but noted its letters included other ways of making 
contact. It said as Mr L didnt make contact until after his agreement had been terminated so 
it was unaware of the cause for his non-payment. It said the termination of the agreement 
was irreversible. It said that a hold was put on the repossession of the vehicle until further 
guidance from the FCA was provided. This guidance was received saying that businesses 
could continue with their collection process and so it continued with its recovery process. It 
said that the letter about outstanding money post settlement was sent a number of months 
later and that this issue was resolved swiftly with it being confirmed no further money was 
due.
Our investigator didnt think that VWFS did anything wrong by terminating the agreement as 
payments hadnt been made and Mr L hadnt made contact to discuss the issue. He also 
thought that VWFS had acted fairly by putting action on hold while awaiting guidance from 
the FCA. However, he noted that it then sent recovery trucks to Mr Ls address twice without 
telling him this would happen. He also noted the letters sent in error after the agreement had 
been settled suggesting Mr L owed more money. Because of the upset and inconvenience 
these issues had caused he recommended that VWFS pay Mr L £150 compensation.
Mr L says that following the settlement of the account he received a further letter asking for 
over £2,200. He didnt agree that £150 was sufficient given the actions of VWFS and the 
upset and inconvenience these had caused. VWFS agreed to pay Mr L £150.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr L is upset by the circumstances he has experienced and that he feels 
VWFS didnt provide the support it could have given the issues he was experiencing due to 
the Covid-19 Pandemic. I have considered the different parts of Mr Ls complaint and having 
done so I agree with our investigator that compensation of £150 is reasonable. I will explain 
my reasons for this.
Termination
Mr Ls business was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic which meant he wasnt earning and 
couldnt make the payments due under his agreement with VWFS. His March 2020 was 
returned due to insufficient funds and this situation continued over the coming months. Mr L 
was sent letters about the arrears on his account and due the build-up of arrears a notice of 
default was issued in July 2020. As VWFS didnt hear from Mr L his agreement was 
terminated in August 2020.
I note the comments Mr L has made about receiving the letters and then trying to call VWFS 
but not getting through. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, businesses were under increased 
pressure and I do not doubt that Mr L struggled to make telephone contact. However, VWFS 
did provide options other than calling to make contact and as Mr L didnt get in touch through 
these routes, I do not find that I can say VWFS was wrong to take the action it did.
Had Mr L made contact sooner then we would have expected VWFS to have taken the 
relevant guidance into account and potentially offered a payment deferral or other support. 
However, as contact wasnt made, VWFS wasnt aware of the reasons for Mr Ls missed 
payments and therefore I cant say it did anything wrong by terminating his agreement.
Repossession
As the agreement was terminated before Mr L made contact in September 2020, there were 
limited options available. At this time Mr L asked that repossession be put on hold and 
VWFS contacted the recovery company about this. VWFS said that a hold would be in place 
until it had received an update from the FCA about repossession of the vehicle. I think this 
was reasonable.
However, Mr L says that while he understood the hold to be in place recovery trucks were 
sent to his address on two occasions. I appreciate that VWFS has explained guidance was 
received from the FCA saying that repossessions could go ahead but I cannot see from the 
evidence provided that it contacted Mr L to let him know about this before the recovery 
trucks were sent. I think this caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
Letters following settlement
Mr L settled his agreement and received a letter confirming this. Given this I can understand 
why he was worried by a letter he received after this saying he still owed money. I can see 
Mr L was sent a letter about an outstanding amount dated 27 August 2021 and that contact 
was made with VWFS on 13 September. VWFS confirmed on 14 September that the letter was sent in error and that there was no amount outstanding. So, while I appreciate the 
receipt of the letter was upsetting, I have taken into account the time that this issue was 
outstanding. Mr L received a further statement dated February 2022 which also suggested 
there was an outstanding amount. Our investigator looked into this and VWFS confirmed 
that there is nothing further owing on the account and no further statements will be sent.
Compensation
I appreciate that Mr L doesnt think compensation of £150 is enough. However, in this case, 
given the points made above I find that £150 is reasonable compensation for the upset 
caused by the recovery agents arriving when Mr L wasnt expecting this and the letters about 
the additional payments.
Putting things right
VWFS should, as it has agreed, pay Mr L £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the issues noted above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should take the actions 
set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman