DRN-4097744
The complaint
Mr F and Ms P complain in their capacity as trustees of a trust, which I will call T. Briefly, 
they complain that Leeds Building Society acted without the proper authority in respect of Ts 
money.
What happened
The background to this complaint is complex, but I set out what I consider to be the key facts 
below:
Mr F and Ms P are siblings as well as trustees of T. T was set up to benefit their 
brother during his lifetime, and after his death the assets held within T were to be 
divided between Mr F and Ms P (or their children and grandchildren if either of them 
were to die before their brother).
In 2010 the trustees set up an account with Leeds for T. Everyone now accepts that 
the account should have been set up on a two to sign basis. In other words, any 
withdrawal instructions should have required signatures from both Mr F and Ms P.
In early 2022 the trustees told Leeds that their brother had died. Leeds then removed 
both trustees from the mandate for Ts account, and went on to tell Mr F that he 
wasnt authorised to deal with Ts account. In effect, Leeds told Mr F that it intended 
to treat the money held in Ts account as belonging to his brother rather than as 
money held in trust for their family. Leeds now accepts that the trustees ability to 
access Ts account should not have been impacted by their brothers death.
 
Leeds later allowed the money in Ts account to be moved to a different Leeds 
account  but it did so following instructions from Mr F only; it did not obtain consent 
from Ms P. Leeds later accepted that it should not have taken any action without the 
consent of both trustees, and put Ts money back into the account it had been in 
before Mr F gave his instructions.
Our investigator thought Leeds should pay the trustees £150 to compensate for its 
errors.
Mr F considers that Leeds should pay more than £150. His position is that £500 
would be more appropriate, particularly as the problem could have become 
considerably larger  and money might have been paid to his brothers executor  
had he not intervened. 
Ms P also considers that Leeds should pay more than £150, but for a different 
reason. Ms P is much less concerned than Mr F about the possibility Ts money 
might have been paid to their brothers executor; she explained that she is confident 
the executor would have simply returned any money received in error. Ms Ps 
concern is primarily about Leeds decision to move Ts money without her authority. 
Mr F and Ms P have both agreed that any compensation paid as a result of this 
complaint should be shared between them, with each of them receiving half of any 
payment.
The parties could not reach agreement, so the matter was referred to me as an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyone accepts that Leeds made errors here. It should not have removed the trustees 
access to Ts account after their brothers death, and it should not have done anything with 
Ts money without consent from both Mr F and Ms P. This dispute is about the level of 
compensation rather than about whether Leeds made any errors.
Putting things right
So far as financial loss is concerned, Im satisfied that ultimately no harm was done. Leeds 
swiftly moved Ts money back to where it should have been, and T is no worse off as a 
result of Leeds errors.
That leaves the question of the trustees distress and inconvenience. I accept that both 
trustees were genuinely worried about what could have happened, and so I think Leeds 
should pay compensation for the distress that it caused. I also accept that the problems 
could have become considerably worse, and that further errors might have occurred but for 
the trustees vigilance. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to award 
compensation for what could have happened.
Overall, taking into account all the circumstances and applying my own judgement, I 
consider that a total compensation payment of £150 does represent fair and reasonable 
compensation here. I understand that it would not be practical for Mr F and Ms P to deal with 
a joint payment for £150, so Leeds should pay £75 to each of them
My final decision
My final decision is that I order Leeds Building Society to pay £75 each to Mr F and Ms P, 
making a total payment of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman