DRN-3206614
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance (LV). He isnt happy about the way 
it valued his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K made a claim under his car insurance policy after his car was written off in an accident 
that wasnt his fault. But when LV looked to settle the claim Mr K wasnt happy with the 
valuation of his car. So, he complained to LV about this.
LV looked to value Mr Ks car by looking at the various trade valuation guides in order to 
gauge the market value of his car. And as he wasnt happy LV looked at the valuations again 
and increased its valuation to around £22,000. But Mr K still wasnt happy as he thought his 
car was worth about £1,000 more than it offered and he thought it hadnt taken into account 
the optional extras on his car. And as he still wasnt happy he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She looked at the 
various motor trade guides and thought LVs offer seemed fair in the circumstances. She did 
ask for a bespoke valuation of Mr Ks car but was satisfied this was generally in line with 
LVs offer. So, she thought LV had acted reasonably and offered a fair market value of Mr 
Ks car. 
Mr K didnt agree, maintaining that he couldnt buy a car for the money LV offered, that the 
cost for his car had risen and he should get the top of all the trade guide valuations. So the 
matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr K, who simply feels his car is worth more than LV have offered, but Ill 
explain why.
I can understand Mr Ks general position, as he clearly feels his car is worth more than LV 
have offered him. And he feels that the market value of his car has increased since LV made 
its offer and so he is out of pocket. But this service has an established approach to valuation 
cases like Mr Ks. When looking at the valuation placed on a car by an insurance company I 
consider the approach they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the car. 
I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars and I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as cars dont normally 
sell for the price at which they are advertised, and the trade guides give an up to date guide 
of the value of the car in question. The condition of the car at the time of the incident is also 
an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a business to 
increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I know Mr K doesnt agree with this approach and feels his car is worth about £1,000 more 
than LV has offered. And while I understand his position, and the fact that the second-hand 
market is buoyant at the minute, Im satisfied LV has acted fairly. 
I say this as LV looked to increase its valuation following Mr Ks representations and the 
trade valuation guides suggest that the market value it offered is in line with these. And LV 
got its engineer to look at its initial valuation and considered the further information and 
evidence Mr K provided, including reference to his optional extras, and increased its 
valuation. So I cant say it has acted unreasonably here. 
Valuing second hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mr Ks 
car. Im just looking to see if LV has acted reasonably in providing a fair market value of his 
car and I think it has. Mr K has made the point that second hand car valuations are rising 
and I agree. But the trade guide valuations are from around the time of his claim, so Im 
satisfied he hasnt been prejudiced here and has been offered the market value of his car 
from around the time of loss. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied LV has looked to value Mr Ks car in a fair and reasonable way. 
And looked to pay him the market value of his car in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Im particularly swayed by the fact that our investigator got a bespoke valuation 
of Mr Ks car, which took account of the precise model and specification of his car, and this 
was also in line with the amount offered by LV.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman