DRN-2703630
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt remove her from a joint account she had 
with her ex-husband and used her money to repay an overdraft which was the liability of her 
ex-husband. She also complains that Barclays closed her account.
What happened
Ms M held three joint bank accounts with her ex-husband X  a savings account, a current 
account ending 4942, and another current account ending 8096. Both accounts had an 
agreed overdraft facility of £2,700.
In 2010 Ms M divorced X. Ms M says after the divorce she repeatedly asked Barclays to 
change the accounts from joint to sole accounts. She gave the bank a copy of her Decree 
Absolute and told the bank that she wasnt in touch with X. Despite this, she says Barclays 
refused to make any changes to the accounts without Xs authority. So, Ms M decided to 
leave things as they were, and the accounts remained in joint names  but Ms M and X 
agreed that X would use the account ending 8096 and Ms M would use the account ending 
4942 and operate them as sole accounts rather than joint accounts. This arrangement 
continued until 2019.
In August 2019, following a payment into the account Ms M was using, Barclays decided to 
review how the account was being operated. Whilst it completed its review it blocked the 
account  meaning Ms M wasnt able to use it. After it had completed its review, Barclays 
decided to close both accounts immediately. At the time of the accounts being closed, 
the one being used by X was overdrawn by just over £2,000. Ms Ms account balance was 
just over £1,200 in credit.
When the accounts were closed Barclays used the money in account 4942 to off-set the 
overdrawn balance on account 8096. Ms M wasnt happy about this and complained to the 
bank. She said it wasnt fair to use the money in the account she was using to clear her ex-
husbands debt. She explained that she had been divorced for nearly ten years from X, had 
nothing to do with account 8096 and didnt know about the overdraft, so Barclays had no 
right to take her money and should pay it back. 
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong as the accounts were joint, so Ms M and X were 
jointly and severally liable for any debt. The bank also said it had no record of Ms M 
informing them about her divorce or asking to be removed from any accounts. Ms M wasnt 
happy with the banks response so brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into it.
The investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found 
Barclays had acted in line with its terms and conditions. She also found when a joint account 
is in its overdraft, both parties are liable for the debt. She accepted that the accounts had 
been run separately, but she said there wasnt any evidence that Ms M had told Barclays 
she wanted to be removed from the accounts until November 2019, after the accounts had 
been closed.
Ms M disagreed. She wants Barclays to refund her the money it used to offset the overdrawn 
balance. And explain why it closed her account.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, this has been a difficult decision to reach. I want to make clear that I dont doubt that 
Ms M had been using the joint account as a sole account. But I dont have enough evidence 
to fairly say that Barclays has made an error in not removing Ms M from the joint accounts. 
And treated Ms M unfairly when it used money to repay the overdraft. Ill explain why.
Ive checked Barclays terms and conditions to see what it would reasonably be expected to 
do when looking to recover an outstanding debt on a joint account.  Under the section titled 
Who is liable for any money owed on a joint account it states:
If you have a joint account, it means you are agreeing to be individually as well as 
jointly liable for any money owed to us (joint liability). However, if for some reason we 
cant collect the money from everyone, we have the right to collect if from just some 
or one of you (several liability.)
Because of this, its the case that both Ms M and her former husband X were jointly 
responsible for any overdraft on the accounts. This was the case even if the overdraft was 
created or increased by Ms Ms former husband without her knowledge. I think the terms are 
clear in explaining that both parties are jointly and severally liable for any outstanding debt  
and what this means for Ms M. So, Barclays hasnt made a mistake here when it off-set the 
debt using funds from the account being used by Ms M. And it has acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. 
I can see that the debt in account 8096 has been built up after Ms M divorced X. So, I can 
understand, and sympathise with Ms M when she says the debt isnt hers. But Ive not seen 
any evidence that Ms M contacted Barclays to let them know she wanted to be removed 
from the accounts, which may have prevented the situation Ms M now finds herself in.
The information Ive seen suggests that Ms M only contacted the Barclays once the bank 
closed her account. And Ive not seen anything that would lead me to think Barclays could 
reasonably be expected to have known Ms M wanted her name removed from the joint 
accounts prior to this. For example, Ive not seen any evidence that shows Ms M told the 
bank shed divorced X at the time, or that shed told the bank shed changed address and 
was no longer living at the address the bank had on its records  so new bank cards and 
statements for the accounts were sent to the same address for nine years. Ms M didnt 
provide a copy of her divorce paperwork to Barclays until 2019  so in the eyes of the bank 
nothing had changed. Ive also noted that the investigator asked the bank to check its 
records  Barclays went back as far as it could  to 2015, and couldnt find any record of any 
contact from Ms M. So, Ive not seen any evidence that Ms M told Barclays she no longer 
wanted to be party to the joint accounts.
I then turn to the banks decision to close the joint accounts. As the investigator explained, 
its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless, theres a very good reason to 
do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to 
compensate a customer who has had their account closed.Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. In this case, Ms Ms 
accounts were closed immediately. Having looked at the information the bank relied on to 
close the accounts, in my view that was reasonable. So, it was entitled to close the accounts 
as it has already done. 
I understand Ms M wants Barclays to explain the reason it closed her account. But Barclays 
isnt obliged to provide this to her. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
Ms M this information. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Miss M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman