DRN-3477226
The complaint
Ms B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited failed to provide her with a replacement card, 
blocked her from using its App, unfairly recorded adverse information about her account with 
credit reference agencies and provided poor service.
What happened
Ms B had a credit card account with Vanquis. She says the card didnt work. She asked 
Vanquis to issue a replacement card. She says she didnt receive this until January 2021, 
which was over a year after shed requested it. 
Ms B says she couldnt make payments to the account because, without the card, she 
couldnt access the App. She says shes made payments each time Vanquis sent her text 
requests. But, despite this Vanquis continued to add charges to her account. She spoke to 
Vanquis in November 2020 and agreed to make a repayment later that month. Shed asked 
Vanquis to send her the replacement card  but this didnt arrive. 
Vanquis sent Ms B a Notice of Default in December 2020 and passed her account to debt 
collection agents in January 2021.
Ms B says she told the debt collection agents she wanted to make payment in full and they 
passed her case back to Vanquis. 
Ms B says shes experienced difficult personal circumstances over the past few years and 
also has financial difficulties. She wants Vanquis to refund all the charges to her account, 
remove the default and activate her card and the App. She says shes experienced distress 
and her credit score has been adversely impacted because of how Vanquis has treated her. 
She complained to Vanquis.
Vanquis investigated her complaint. It said it had already investigated some of the matters 
she was complaining about and had sent her a final response letter on 17 March 2020 in 
which it had responded to her complaints about:
her card and PIN not working;
issues with her mobile App preventing her from managing her account; and
issues about how its staff had spoken to her.
Ms B had not referred this complaint to our service within six months. So, Vanquis said it did 
not consent to our service investigating these points.
Vanquis said Ms B had raised a further complaint in November 2020. Shed complained 
about:
waiting over a year to get a replacement card;
being unable to make payments because she couldnt access the App;
the default on her credit file; and
she wanted Vanquis to reinstate an arrangement shed discussed with it in November 
2020.
Vanquis issued its final response, about these issues, on 5 January 2021. It said shed 
asked for a replacement card in November 2020 and this had been sent to her within two 
days of her request. It had told her on several occasions about ways to pay when she 
couldnt access the App. 
Vanquis said Ms B had made an arrangement with it in November 2020. It agreed that if she 
paid £54 by 23 November 2020, it would refund £54 of charges itd applied to her account. 
This payment was requested on 23 November 2020 but it was declined. The account was in 
arrears and no payments had been made since September 2020. In these circumstances, 
Vanquis said it had correctly reported the arrears to credit reference agencies and issued the 
Notice of Default. It said it hadnt yet registered the default and it invited Ms B to contact it to 
make an arrangement if she wanted to avoid that happening.  Vanquis accepted it hadnt 
returned a call after it had promised to do so. It credited £50 to Ms Bs account by way of 
compensation.
Ms B wasnt satisfied. She complained to our service. She also said Vanquis had failed to 
respond to a Data Subject Access Request shed made to it.
Our investigator looked into Ms Bs complaint. He said we couldnt look into the issues which 
Vanquis had dealt with in its final response letter dated 17 March 2020. The reason for this 
was because more than six months had passed before Ms B had referred these matters to 
us and she hadnt told us about any exceptional circumstances which had caused the delay. 
Our investigator said he could look into the matters dealt with in the final response letter 
dated 5 January 2021. In relation to those matters, he thought Vanquis had tried to contact 
Ms B by various means including letter, phone call and text to inform her that the payments 
she was making were less than the minimum payment required and her account was in 
arrears. He also noted that although Ms B was not able to access the App, Vanquis had 
provided her with information about other ways to pay. 
Vanquis had agreed a repayment plan with Ms B but she hadnt made the agreed 
repayment. Vanquis had sent a replacement card to Ms B. If she hadnt received it, he didnt 
think that was a valid reason not to make the repayments. In these circumstances, he 
thought Vanquis acted fairly and reasonably when it had correctly reported her account to 
credit reference agencies. If Ms B wanted to make an arrangement to repay her account 
then she needed to contact the debt collection agency appointed by Vanquis.
Ms B didnt agree. She said shed made the payments Vanquis has asked for by text but 
despite this she was locked out of her account. She reiterated shed waited eighteen months 
for a card. She said Vanquis had been hiding evidence, ignoring her complaints and it hadnt 
responded to a data subject access request shed made.
Our investigator thought about what Ms B said but he didnt change his view. He asked her 
to provide any further evidence she had to support what shed said but Ms B hasnt provided 
anything further.
Because Ms B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out at the outset that in this decision Im only considering the matters which 
were dealt with in the final response letter from Vanquis dated 5 January 2021. Ms B has raised other issues. Ive dealt with the issues raised in the final response letter dated 17 
March 2020 separately. But that doesnt mean I havent been able to take those matters into 
consideration when thinking about how this complaint should be resolved. 
After Ms B referred her complaint to our service she also raised other matters about the 
service shed received from Vanquis, including a complaint about Vanquiss failure to reply to 
a data subject access request shed made to it. She needs to raise those matters with 
Vanquis first and give it the opportunity to respond. So, in this decision, I wont be 
commenting on those matters.
In this decision I will be dealing with the following parts of Ms Bs complaint. She says:
shes waited over a year to receive a replacement card;
the replacement card has been blocked and she cant use it;
Vanquis has blocked her from accessing the App which means she cant make 
payments;
Vanquis has passed her account to a debt collection agency;
Vanquis has reported adverse information, including a default, to credit reference 
agencies;
Vanquis has imposed unreasonable charges on her account;
Vanquis has ignored her complaints and is hiding information.
The replacement card
Ms B says she waited eighteen months to get a replacement card. Ive looked at the records 
provided by Vanquis and I can see Ms B requested a new card on 25 February 2020. On 4 
March 2020, Vanquis told her, by text that she needed to speak to it first if she wanted a new 
card. It provided her with contact details to enable her to progress this. She didnt contact it 
by phone at that time. 
On 17 March 2020, in response to a complaint shed made, Vanquis sent her a letter in 
which it explained that there was no issue with the card it had issued to her in December 
2019, but if she wanted a replacement card she would have to clear the arrears on her 
account and complete additional security over the phone. She was told the minimum 
payment she needed to make by 27 March 2020, to clear the arrears, was £100.91. I can 
see she made a payment of that amount on 30 March 2020. But, theres no evidence she 
phoned Vanquis to go through the additional security required to request a replacement 
card. So, I dont think it did anything wrong when it didnt issue a replacement card at that 
time.
Ive also looked at the subsequent text messages between Vanquis and Ms B. I dont see 
any record of a further request for a replacement card until 7 November 2020, when Ms B 
spoke to Vanquis by telephone. At that stage the account was in arrears with no payments 
having been made since September 2020. Vanquis agreed a repayment plan with Ms B at 
that time and confirmed it would send the replacement card to her.
Vanquis did issue a replacement card and sent it to the address it held for Ms B on its 
records. Im satisfied, on balance, the card was issued to her on 12 November 2020. She 
says she didnt get it until 4 January 2021. I havent been able to ascertain why she didnt 
receive the card until around two months after it was issued. 
But Ive noted that, even if the card hadnt been delayed, Ms B couldnt have used it until she 
cleared the arrears on her account. She didnt make the payment shed agreed to make 
during the phone call on 7 November 2020, so her account was still in arrears. And, I dont 
think that the delay in receipt of the card was a valid reason for not making the payments
Ms B was required to make under her credit card agreement.Access to the App
Ms B says she couldnt make payments to her account because the App wasnt working. Ive 
thought about what shes said here.
I agree that it wouldve been inconvenient for Ms B to make payments when she says her 
chosen method was using the App. But, it is the case that Vanquis had given her several 
alternative ways to make her payments. And, I can see that she did use the automated text 
message service to make payments using her debit card. So, I dont think that issues 
accessing the App prevented her from making payments using alternative means.
The missed payments and reports to credit reference agencies
Ms B did make payments to her account during the period from March 2020 to September 
2020. Ive looked at the amounts she paid and I can see that these were less than the 
minimum payments required.
Ms B says she paid the amounts Vanquis requested by text and its not her fault if the 
amounts she paid were less than what was required.
Ive looked at the text messages Vanquis sent Ms B during this period. I can see it informed 
her each time her account exceeded the limit and asked her to make a payment to bring the 
account back within the limit. It also contacted her each month to inform her what the 
minimum monthly repayment was and the date it needed to be paid by. Having looked at the 
text messages and compared them to the repayments made, I find that Ms B didnt make all 
of the payments she was requested to make. Thats why her account was in arrears.
Vanquis is required to report accurate information about the status of Ms Bs account to 
credit reference agencies. So, I dont think it did anything wrong when it recorded information 
about the arrears and the missed payments. Ive commented further below about the notice 
of default issued in December 2020.
The charges on the account
Ms B has also told us that Vanquis continued to apply charges to her account despite the 
fact she wasnt using it and had been making payments.
I can see that during the period from March 2020 to September 2020, Vanquis did apply late 
payment and over limit fees. As mentioned above, Ms B was sent a text message each time 
her account was nearing the limit and she was informed about what she needed to pay, and 
by when, if she wanted to avoid charges. 
Under the terms of her agreement, Vanquis was able to apply late payment and over limit 
charges. So, I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it applied charges to her 
account, when she didnt make the minimum monthly payments required. Ive also noted that 
it had reminded her, in March 2020, about the charges that would apply if her account was 
over limit or payments were late.
In November 2020, Ms B spoke to Vanquis. She discussed the payments due on her 
account. The adviser told her the minimum payment needed to bring her account up to date 
was £107.81. She asked how much of that was made up of fees. The adviser looked through 
the repayment history on her account and agreed that if she paid half of the minimum 
payment, Vanquis would cover the other half by way of refunding fees. Ms B said she was 
agreeable to this. She asked what the residual balance on the card would be and the adviser 
said it would be around £200. Ms B said she intended to clear this amount.Having listened to the conversation and the arrangement made, Im persuaded Vanquis 
acted fairly and reasonably when it agreed to refund around £54 of fees it had applied to her 
account. Ive noted Vanquis also agreed during the subsequent call, where Ms B requested 
a replacement card, to refund a late payment charge applied to her account on 26 October 
2020.
Ms B didnt make the payment of £54. She didnt give a reason for that but said she hadnt 
received the replacement card and raised a complaint. Vanquis confirmed it had issued the 
card but said it wouldnt be able to issue another replacement card because her account was 
in arrears and over the limit. 
It was after this that the Notice of Default was issued. Ms B subsequently told Vanquis on 15 
December 2020, about her personal circumstances and financial difficulties she was 
experiencing. In its final response letter dated 5 January 2021, Vanquis told her that the 
default hadnt yet been registered with credit reference agencies and she could avoid that 
happening if she contacted it and agreed a suitable payment arrangement. 
Ms B wouldve known, from the conversation she had with Vanquis on 11 November, that it 
was willing to adopt a flexible approach to the repayments due on her account. And, having 
read the letter of 5 January 2021, Im persuaded, on balance that Vanquis was responding 
positively and sympathetically to what she told it on 15 December when it invited her to 
contact it to discuss a suitable payment arrangement.
Handling the complaint
Ms B says that Vanquis has been hiding information and hasnt responded to complaints 
shes made to it. Ive looked at all the information provided and Ive not seen anything to 
support what Ms B says here.
Ms B raised her complaint in November 2020 and Vanquis issued its final response letter on 
5 January 2021. If Ms B has further complaints about service she received after that date, 
she needs to raise those separately with Vanquis.
Vanquis agreed to pay Ms B £50 for the inconvenience she experienced when it didnt return 
a call, after saying it would call her back. Having considered everything here I think that was 
fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman