DRN-3544678
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way RiskAlliance Limited Plc (RA) arranged his buildings 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B has arranged buildings insurance for his property using an intermediary, RA, for 
a number of years.
In September 2019, Mr B renewed the policy. RA placed the policy with a new 
insurer, X, and with a sum insured of £208,525.
In July 2020 Mr B got in touch with X after he noticed cracking at the property. In 
summary, it accepted the claim was covered by the policy. But it thought Mr B wasnt 
insured for as much as he should be. As a result, it said it would reduce the amount it 
would pay for the repairs and Mr B would have to make up the difference.
Mr B didnt think this was fair and complained to X, which Ive considered separately. 
He also complained to RA. He thought the way it had sold the policy had led to him 
receiving a reduced claim settlement. He said his policy had a higher sum insured 
the year before, and it was unfair for RA to reduce it.
RA said the new, lower sum insured was clearly stated on the initial quotation it sent 
to Mr B in 2019  as well as a second quotation and the policy documents after the 
renewal had been confirmed. And it had told him to check all the documents and let it 
know if anything was wrong  but he didnt do so.
Our investigator thought RA had acted fairly. Mr B disagreed and an agreement 
wasnt reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the complaint against the insurer, X, separately, so I wont go into 
detail about that here. But, in summary, I found it was fair for X to reduce the amount 
it pays for the repairs to 78% of their value. That leaves Mr B with a shortfall of 22% 
to pay himself.
The reason for the reduction is because Mr Bs policy with X had a sum insured of 
£208,525. And a reasonable sum insured would have been £293,000.
In 2018, RA had placed Mr Bs policy with a different insurer. It had a sum insured of 
£500,000. Mr B thinks RA treated him unfairly by reducing his sum insured in 2019. 
RA says it made the change of sum insured clear to Mr B. It was up to him to review 
it and let RA know if it wasnt enough, but he didnt do so.
RA has explained the reason for the change in sum insured. It says it had arranged 
Mr Bs policy to have a global sum insured for a number of years. I understand this 
to be a fixed amount thought to be comfortably enough to cover the rebuild cost of 
the property. In this case the global sum insured was set to £500,000. In 2019 it 
placed the policy with a new insurer and with a conventional sum insured. I 
understand this to be one which requires the policyholder to estimate and choose an 
amount sufficient to cover the rebuild cost of the property. RA estimated what the 
conventional sum insured should be. It used the last known conventional sum 
insured from several years earlier and index linking to arrive at £208,525.
Ordinarily when a broker arranges a policy, its duty is broadly to find out what the 
insurer would like to know about the risk it is taking on and gather that information 
from the policyholder. That includes asking clear and relevant questions and 
providing additional guidance and support where necessary.
At a renewal, where the information may already have been gathered before, its duty 
may reasonably be fulfilled by reminding the policyholder of the information required, 
the information previously given, and asking them to check it remains correct. And if 
any new information is required, asking clear and relevant questions and providing 
additional guidance and support where necessary.
When the type of sum insured changed, RA could have fulfilled the duty Ive 
described above by keeping the sum insured at £500,000  as it had been the year 
before  and asking Mr B to check that remained correct. Or it could have let him 
know the type of sum insured had changed and asked him to estimate what it should 
be, providing guidance on how to do that. Instead it provided the estimate for him.
I dont think thats unreasonable in principle. However, it meant RA was effectively 
answering the question for Mr B. As a result, I think it would have been reasonable to 
highlight to Mr B thats what it had done. Especially as the way it had answered the 
question meant reducing the sum insured to around 40% of its previous figure  a 
substantial change that could have a significant impact on Mr B in the event of a 
claim.
I agree with RA that the sum insured is clearly shown on the documents it shared 
with Mr B. And it did ask Mr B to check the documents to ensure the information was 
accurate. But Im not satisfied this amounts to highlighting such a significant change 
to him given the potential impact of being underinsured. So, whilst Mr B had a 
responsibility to check the information and change anything he thought was wrong, 
RA also had a responsibility to support and guide him to do that  especially where it 
had made significant changes.
Its clear Mr B checked the documents because he asked RA to make several 
changes to the information it held about his policy. He says he didnt question the 
sum insured as he assumed it would have stayed the same as the year before and 
he thought this was more than enough.
The documents consist of a number of statements, rather than questions. The 
relevant one in this dispute says sum insured followed by a number. It isnt 
explained what that phrase means. So Im not satisfied RA gave Mr B reasonable 
guidance and support to decide whether the estimate was a reasonable one.RA says that if Mr B had questioned the sum insured, it would have given further 
explanation about what it means. And it would have advised him to obtain a valuation 
from a local agent or use credible online valuations tools. I think both of these options 
are reasonable advice for a broker to give  its not the expert on rebuild costs but 
the options its suggested give access to expertise. But these options are only 
suggested if the sum insured is questioned. Theyre not given to help a policyholder 
decide whether they need to question it. And RA itself, when estimating the sum 
insured for Mr B, didnt take either of these options.
Overall, Im not satisfied RA has treated Mr B fairly. It made a significant change to 
his sum insured and didnt highlight it to him. When making the change it didnt use 
the methods it would usually advice its policyholders to use. And it didnt provide 
guidance to him about how to ensure his sum insured was reasonable. Whilst it 
asked Mr B to check the sum insured and presented the figure clearly, I dont think 
this outweighs the other points.
To decide how RA should put things right, I need to consider what would likely have 
happened had RA treated Mr B fairly  and put Mr B in that position. There are a 
number of possibilities here. Broadly RA could have: 
kept the sum insured the same as the previous year
estimated the new sum insured and highlighted it to Mr B
asked Mr B to provide a new sum insured
In each case, RA should have told Mr B that the sum insured should be based on the 
cost of rebuilding the property and provided guidance about how to do that. Using the 
online tool is the simplest method and the one that, in my experience, most property 
owners use. Its also what X used to provide an estimate of £293,000.
Had RA taken any of those three approaches and provided the guidance, on balance 
Im satisfied its likely Mr B would have reached a similar estimate to X. That means 
he wouldnt have had to make up a 22% shortfall in the cost of repair.
To put things right, I think RA should pay Mr B compensation to the value of the 22% 
shortfall. I understand the claim is ongoing and the cost of repairs is yet to be 
finalised. Because of that I think the appropriate remedy at this stage is to set out the 
proportion of the repair cost RA should pay when the time comes, rather than award 
a specific sum of money.
Once Mr B has received his settlement from X, he should share evidence of that with 
RA so it knows how much to pay. RA wont be responsible for any making up any 
shortfall brought about by the payment of the excess.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RA responded to confirm it accepted what I had said.
Mr B let us know he accepted the findings of my provisional decision.
As neither party disagreed with or commented on my findings, I see no reason to change my 
mind or comment further in detail. I remain satisfied it would be fair to uphold this complaint 
for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require RiskAlliance Limited Plc to pay compensation to the 
value of the 22% shortfall in Mr Bs repair costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman