DRN-3614421
The complaint
Mr D complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent to 
him when he could not afford it. 
What happened
Mr D was approved for two loans. Loan 1 was taken on 5 July 2020 and was for £300.00. 
This was to be repaid by two instalments of £180.35. This loan was repaid early.
Loan 2 was taken on 20 November 2020 and was for £1,500.00. This was to be repaid by 
four instalments of £575.72. This loan remains outstanding. 
After Mr D had complained MoneyBoat wrote to him with its final response letter (FRL) in 
which it said it did not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of the 
adjudicators looked at it. He thought that the repayments for the second loan were a large 
proportion of Mr Ds income and that they were unsustainable. 
MoneyBoat knows that we have the complaint as it objected to the jurisdiction element 
initially. Since that was resolved in May 2022 MoneyBoat has not sent us any additional 
information and has not responded to our adjudicators view or the email to inform it that the 
complaint was being passed to an ombudsman.
Upon receiving our adjudicators view, Mr D re-iterated his concerns about the loans and 
raised issues again about the way he was treated by MoneyBoat when he wanted to pay the 
second loan back. 
But that latter part of the complaint is one which will have to be addressed separately as we 
have received no information from MoneyBoat on those issues. Mr D has asked that we 
proceed with the irresponsible lending part of his complaint now as  he points out  he 
commenced this complaint in February 2022 and seeks resolution.
The unresolved complaint on the irresponsible lending part was passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether MoneyBoat completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr D would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr D  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that MoneyBoat did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr D and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required MoneyBoat to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ds ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so MoneyBoat had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Mr D. In practice this meant that MoneyBoat had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Mr D undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for MoneyBoat to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
I have read that Mr D seems unhappy about the Loan 1 outcome  that our adjudicator did 
not think that MoneyBoat had done anything wrong for loan 1. 
Mr D has referred to a series of declined loans but I have no information about those (dates, 
times and reasons for declines) from either Mr D or MoneyBoat. And overall, as Mr D was a 
new customer when he applied to MoneyBoat for loan 1, and it was for a relatively modest 
sum, then Id not expect it to have done more than it did. 
Mr D has raised his gambling issues and I appreciate this must have been a difficult period 
for him  but as MoneyBoat said in its FRL  if it is unaware of these issues then it cannot 
react to them. And I would not have expected MoneyBoat to ask to see and review in detail 
his copy bank statements, for instance, on the application of a first loan for £300. 
So, I consider that MoneyBoat carried out proportionate checks and I do not uphold the 
complaint about loan 1. I further point out that as Mr D repaid it quickly he paid very little 
interest on that loan. As the second loan was for five times the amount Mr D had applied for at Loan 1, I can 
address the complaint about loan 2 briefly. The loan 2 repayments were over three times the 
repayments for loan 1 and for four months not two months. 
On the information MoneyBoat has given us  which is limited  then it has told us it verified 
Mr Ds income and having carried out some checks it increased his expenses figure from 
£0 to £172. That left MoneyBoat in a position where it had calculated that Mr Ds disposable 
income for loan 2 had been £657. With repayments for this loan 2 scheduled to be almost 
£576 a month then that left Mr D with £81 for the month for any unexpected costs. As that is 
less than £100 I consider that to have been too slim a margin.
And I consider that credit repayments of £300 declared by Mr D plus the £576 for loan 2 
would have been about £876 a month which, with an income of £2,250 (declared for loan 2), 
was 38% of his income being spent on credit. In my view that is too high a proportion and 
I consider it unsustainable. 
I have considered that the loan was for a relatively short time. But still that does not alter my 
view. 
On the information I have then I consider that loan 2 ought not to have been lent to Mr D and 
I uphold his complaint for loan 2.   
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not given Mr D loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoat liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr D loan 2. 
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If MoneyBoat cant buy the debt back then it should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 2 
and treat any repayments made by Mr D as though they had been repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Mr D having made overpayments then MoneyBoat should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts calculated.
B. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated should be used to 
repay any balance remaining. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be 
paid to Mr D. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should 
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr D. But Id remind MoneyBoat of its 
obligation to treat Mr D fairly and with forbearance  if needed.
C. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ds 
credit file in relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and I direct that Evergreen Finance 
London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman