DRN-3996754
The complaint
Ms D complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly registered a default with the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs) even though they were sending post to an old address.
What happened
Ms D says she was contacted by a third party debt management company (DMC) in January 
2022, to say her TSB account had been passed to them and there had been a default 
registered. She says she tried to contact TSB about this, but she didnt have any success. 
She says she told the DMC she had not received any correspondence regarding the account 
from TSB and she believed the account was up to date and within the arranged overdraft 
limit. Ms D says she had been having trouble receiving her mail and she had visited a 
branch two years earlier to change her address. She said she doesnt have access to online 
banking as shes had issues with passwords in the past. She says she tried to pay the 
outstanding balance in full and asked for the default to be removed from her credit file. Her 
account was then passed to another DMC. Ms D made a complaint to TSB. She said this is 
affecting her ability to get a mortgage and move house, which she needs to do because of 
health issues. 
TSB said they spoke to Ms D about her complaint and this was agreed to be closed. They 
said they asked her when the postal issues started and she said the last three months, so 
they advised her that although they could see she had been making payments to maintain 
the account and cover interest, she stopped at the time and this is when the account went 
into arrears. They said they told her this was before the postal issues and they had sent a 
number of letters in July. TSB said they explained to her that they had wrote to her a number 
of times and as she didnt repay the arrears, they had removed the overdraft facility and then 
asked for it to be repaid, but as it wasnt repaid, they defaulted the account. TSB said they 
told Ms D that they had to report accurately and factually what had happened on the account 
and they couldnt make allowances or remove details as a gesture of goodwill, which Ms D 
accepted this. Ms D brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Ms Ds complaint in part. She said Ms Ds account entered an 
unarranged overdraft which resulted in TSB removing Ms Ds overdraft in September 2021 
due to non-payment. A default was applied, and her account was sent to their recoveries 
department in December 2021 and then transferred to a DMC in June 2022. She said TSB 
wrote to Ms D in July, September, November and December 2021 about the unarranged 
overdraft limit and the letters were sent to the same address we hold for Ms D. Our 
investigator said that Ms D received a letter from TSB showing two street names, which they 
accept this, but they are unclear how or when the additional address line was added. Whilst 
our investigator didnt believe this had any impact on the arrears/default notices being 
received, she said TSB should pay her £50 for the inconvenience of this. Ms D asked for an 
Ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
shes said and sent us. This includes the detailed information about her health during this 
timeframe and the effect the default has on her health moving forward. While I wont 
document these personal details in this decision, I can assure her I have read everything 
shes said about this and I wish her luck with her health moving forward. But, in line with this 
services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I want to be clear that Ill only be able to address the actions of TSB as part of this complaint 
and not against the two third party DMCs that Ms D spoke to. But she may be able to make 
a complaint about anything they have done which she is dissatisfied with directly to those 
companies. 
The default
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. Being in an unarranged overdraft would count as being in arrears. Looking at her 
bank statement, Ms D often exceeded her arranged overdraft in 2021, but she often paid 
money into the account within the month to ensure she went back into her arranged 
overdraft. But in July 2021, when she entered an unarranged overdraft (which TSB sent 
notification about this to her correct registered address), she did not make another payment 
to her account until November 2021. So she had been in arrears for four months.
But on 3 September 2021, TSB wrote to Ms D at her registered address to inform her that 
they were removing her overdraft. This letter was not sent with two street names included 
and it was sent to the same address that she has provided to our service. They sent a follow 
up letter on 23 September 2021, again to Ms Ds registered address to inform her that she 
must pay them the full amount that she owed them. The letter stated that if she was unable 
to pay in full then they may be able to accept reduced payments or other realistic proposals. 
A notice of default was issued to Ms D on 12 November 2021. I know Ms D says that she did 
not receive any of these letters that TSB sent her, but the address on the letters match up to 
what shes told us her address is, and Im satisfied that TSB did send these letters. And I 
wouldnt be able to hold TSB responsible for any issues with the postal system as this would 
be outside of their control.
The notice of default was followed up by another letter which TSB sent to Ms D. This letter 
was dated 4 December 2021. This letter was addressed to her registered address also and 
told her that to avoid further action she must repay the full amount straightaway. It also says 
that If you don't repay the full amount you owe within 12 days of the date of this letter, and 
we have not heard from you, we will take further action by transferring your account to a 
Debt Collection Agency.
Im satisfied that the relevant letters were sent to Ms Ds correct registered address and as 
Ms D did not take the relevant action between July, when the account first went into a 
unarranged overdraft, to when the account defaulted that TSB were fair to register the 
default as they have a duty of care to accurately report the factual information about the 
account to the CRAs. My understanding is that Ms D has still not repaid the amount owed 
and it would not be proportionate to ask TSB to remove the default when they have made no 
error in registering this. Her payments to the DMC should be reflected on her credit file. If 
they are not, then she would need to take this up with the DMC.
Incorrect addressAt some point after the last letter about the default had been issued on 4 December 2021, an 
incorrect address line was added to Ms Ds address on TSBs systems. It is not known with 
certainty how this occurred. TSB believe the system must have pulled through a line from 
her previous address when this transferred to another system. But while this did not affect 
the default, it would have caused Ms D distress when she did see saw another line of the 
address which wasnt accurate at the time she received post from TSB. I say this as the 
account had already defaulted and she says that she didnt receive the post about the 
unarranged overdraft/notice of default etc. 
So if Ms D genuinely didnt receive this post, then she may be under the impression that she 
hadnt received this post due to address inaccuracies, although this would not be true as all 
of the arrears/default letters had her correct address showing. As one line of the address 
which was incorrect had been passed over to the DMCs, this also would have had an 
impact on her when she had to inform them the information they had about her was 
incorrect. 
I asked TSB about the potential General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) impact on what 
happened, and they told me that an investigation had already been carried out on this issue 
and the findings were that the adjudication clarified that there was not much detriment. I 
agree that there wasnt much detriment here. I say this as there is no evidence that letters 
have been sent to a different address to Ms Ds address and given that the rest of the 
address was correct was accurate, including the first line of the address and postcode, then 
it would be very unlikely for this to go to the wrong address, even with the incorrect address 
line which was included in their letter. Ive also looked at TSBs system notes and there were 
no items returned to them either during the events which occurred here.
I do think that TSB should put things right here. They have confirmed that the address has 
been changed now on their system. Our investigator recommended that TSB should pay Ms 
D £50 compensation for this issue and Im persuaded that this is fair. I say this as this did not 
affect the default, but it would have caused distress to Ms D. The impact is reduced as the 
correct postcode and the correct line of her address was included with this and Ms D has 
sent us a letter containing the error. So this proves she still managed to receive post from 
TSB even though it contained an error. But this doesnt mean to say this issue had no impact 
on her. And the fact remains that TSB passed incorrect information about her address to 
third party companies which she would suffer unnecessary inconvenience in correcting the 
DMCs with the correct address. So it follows that TSB should put things right for Ms D.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that TSB pays Ms D £50 compensation which I think is 
reasonable in the circumstances for the reasons Ive already given.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. TSB Bank plc should pay Ms D £50 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman