DRN-2885954
The complaint
Mrs D complains that TSB Bank Plc failed to refund multiple transactions made from her 
account that she didnt recognise.
What happened
Mrs D has said that after receiving a text from TSB, she noticed several transactions that 
she didnt recognise and spoke to TSB about them. Mrs Ds online access was blocked by 
TSB, but the card wasnt, and several further disputed transactions appeared on her 
account. Mrs D was asked to visit her branch, which she did a few days later. Mrs D listed a 
large number of transactions that she didnt recognise, some going back several months. 
Some of these were to an online merchant Ill refer to as P and they included transactions 
that were made with different debit cards. This was because Mrs D had her card replaced 
between the dates of these transactions.
There was an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) transaction shortly before Mrs D was in the 
branch and shes said it couldnt have been made with her card because she was in the 
branch at the time, accompanied by the person she cares for. TSB told Mrs D that the 
timings on the ATM machine were incorrect.
TSB refunded several of the card not present transactions but said that because the other 
disputed transactions used Mrs Ds genuine card - they wouldnt refund these. Mrs D told 
TSB that she still had her card, she hadnt given her card to anyone and no one else knew 
the Personal Identification Number (PIN) number. Mrs D believed her card had been cloned 
and this was the explanation for the disputed transactions. TSB then put a full block on Mrs 
Ds card.
TSB continued to look into the matter, but they declined to refund the disputed transactions 
that used Mrs Ds genuine card. Mrs D disagreed with TSB and still thought her card had 
been cloned. Mrs D complained to TSB about the refusal to refund these transactions and 
she said shed been treated poorly during calls with the business. TSB agreed that the 
communication could have been handled better and they credited Mrs Ds account with 
£62.00, which was £12.00 for the cost of calls and £50.00 compensation.
Mrs D was unhappy with how TSB had handled her complaint and brought it to our service 
for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought it was 
reasonable for TSB to hold Mrs D responsible for the disputed transactions.
Mrs D disagreed with the investigators outcome and through her representative pointed out 
that some of the timings that supported the banks case were accepted, but where it 
supported Mrs D, TSB said the ATM timings were wrong. He also said that Mrs D believed 
her card was cancelled during the first call she made to the bank, so why would she use it 
after this date?
Mrs D asked for a further review of her complaint and its been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Mrs Ds representative made reference to other issues she had with TSB, but they dont form 
part of this complaint. Ill be addressing the complaint Mrs D made about the disputed 
transactions and the customer service she received.
Mrs D is disputing a large number of transactions made from her account. Essentially she is 
saying that she didnt authorise them.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that TSB can hold Mrs D liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, TSB 
have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to make the 
transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows the disputed transactions were 
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which TSB and Mrs D agreed to use the card for transactions. 
For example, when using the card and PIN together, TSB agree to accept that this is a 
legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another approved user and make 
the payment on their behalf. The transactions Ive examined used the genuine card and the 
correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed transactions were 
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for TSB to hold Mrs D 
responsible, for example if the card was used without her permission.
Mrs D told TSB and our service that her card was kept with her phone and she hadnt given 
it to anyone else to use or told anyone else the PIN number. She said she kept it securely in 
her bedroom when she was asleep. She also explained that on occasion shed misplaced 
the card. Mrs D also said that she cared for another person, whilst having difficulties with 
mobility herself. 
When Mrs D visited the branch, she told TSB about the unrecognised transactions and they 
refunded several card not present transactions to P. Mrs D explained that she hadnt got an 
account with P, but some transactions to them were made on behalf of the person she cared 
for. Some of the specific transactions to P that Mrs D didnt recognise were made using a 
previous debit card. That means whoever made the disputed transactions had access to two 
different debit cards and it seems unlikely that an unknown third party could access two 
different cards to make both online and physical card transactions.
A large number of the transactions that Mrs D has disputed are Chip and PIN, including the 
ATM withdrawals she says she never made. Mrs D is of the opinion that her card was cloned 
and somehow her PIN number was discovered, which explains the disputed transactions.
TSBs systems record how each transaction was made. For transactions at an ATM with a 
Chip and PIN enabled card, such as Mrs Ds, the system records that the genuine Chip on 
the card has been read. What this means in practice is that the system wouldnt record the 
genuine Chip being read if the card was cloned.Im satisfied Mrs Ds card wasnt cloned. Thats because based on what our service has 
seen, and the industry guidance available to us, we have yet to see a complaint where the 
Chip on a card has been cloned. So, Im satisfied that Mrs Ds genuine card was used to 
make these transactions.
I appreciate that Mrs D thought her card was cloned and the PIN number compromised, and 
its possible that the PIN could have been obtained by an unknown third party when the 
genuine card was being used by Mrs D, but I dont think this is the likely explanation. The 
transaction history has both disputed and undisputed transactions, meaning that whoever 
made the disputed transactions had to remove the card without Mrs D realising and then 
replace it on each occasion. This seems unlikely because Mrs D confirmed she still had the 
card and it was kept secure. 
Ive also looked at the type of transactions Mrs D has disputed, and they dont show the 
typical pattern of someone who had access to Mrs Ds card without her permission. If the 
card was obtained by an unknown third party, the likely use of it would be to empty the 
account before it was reported lost, rather than make multiple transactions over a number of 
months. So, I think it unlikely that an unknown third party was responsible and because Mrs 
D confirmed that no one else had access to her card, I think it was reasonable for TSB to 
hold Mrs D liable for the transactions. I realise thatll be a difficult message for Mrs D  but 
its what the evidence leads me to conclude when looking at all the circumstances 
objectively here. 
Her representative explained that some of the timings were suspicious, particularly when 
Mrs D was in Branch and an ATM transaction was made shortly before she arrived. TSB 
explained that the ATM timings were incorrect, but Ive seen no evidence of this. The records 
show a visit by Mrs D, but branch visits arent recorded in the same way as say a phone call 
with more precise timings. I cant be sure what happened with the ATM transaction, but as it 
used the genuine card and PIN, it doesnt seem likely it was made without Mrs Ds 
knowledge.
Mrs Ds representative also explained that Mrs D thought the card had been cancelled 
during the first call to the bank, so why would she attempt to use it after that date? When Ive 
examined the transactions after Mrs D spoke with TSB, there are several ATM transactions 
that Mrs Ds representative says she didnt authorise, but theres also a contactless payment 
to a merchant that hasnt been disputed. It does seem that the card was still being used after 
the call to the bank and as the undisputed transaction used the genuine card  it doesnt 
seem likely that it was used without Mrs Ds knowledge. 
When Mrs D called the bank to dispute the transactions, TSB have said they couldnt be 
sure that it was Mrs D calling. So, they blocked her card for online transactions, but not card 
transactions until they could satisfy themselves it was Mrs D making the notification. There 
were several more disputed transactions made after this call and Ive thought about TSBs 
reasons for not cancelling the card. 
It appears in the call that Mrs D had already passed security and the call handler was able to 
investigate Mrs Ds concerns, but the call was cut short and Mrs D then called back later that 
morning. So, Im not sure why TSB didnt completely cancel her card at that point and while I 
recognise that there were other disputed transactions after the call, I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to ask TSB to refund these transactions. I say that because Ive already 
explained that I think it was more than likely that Mrs D authorised or gave her permission to 
use her card.TSB recognised that their communications could have gone better with Mrs D and Ive 
listened to the phone calls between them. Its apparent that once TSB had decided to 
decline any further refund to Mrs D, the situation became confused. There was difficulty 
explaining what the cloned card meant and both parties were talking about different things 
which led to a heated discussion between Mrs D and the call handler. I think TSB were trying 
to explain the reasons for their decision, but this message was lost because of how it was 
handled. I think the £12.00 for the cost of calls and £50.00 as an apology for the way the 
calls were handled was a fair and reasonable way for TSB to deal with this issue and I wont 
be asking TSB to increase this.
While Im sure Mrs D will disagree with me, the evidence that Ive considered leads me to 
the conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that Mrs D 
authorised or allowed her card details to be used to make the payments. So, taking 
everything into account, I think its fair and reasonable for TSB to hold Mrs D responsible for 
these transactions.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman