DRN-2954299
The complaint
 Mr A and Mrs H complain that Blue Motor Finance Ltd refused to let them reject a faulty car. 
What happened
 In late May 2019 Mr A and Mrs H acquired a second-hand car costing £4,999 funded by a 
deposit of £1,000 and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. It was some 10 years old 
and had covered some 60,500 miles.
On 11 June they emailed Blue to ask to cancel the contract as the car was the subject of a 
safety recall. The screenshot they have provided says that there is an outstanding recall 
since at least 22 June 2019. The In late May 2019 Mr A and Mrs H acquired a second-hand 
car costing £4,999 funded by a deposit of £1,000 and the balance with a hire purchase 
agreement. It was some 10 years old and had covered some 60,500 miles.
On 11 June they emailed Blue to ask to cancel the contract as the car was the subject of a
safety recall. The screenshot they have provided says that there is an outstanding recall
since at least 22 June 2019. They returned the car to the dealer. It has told this service that it
took the car to a main dealer which carried out the recall and no faults were found. The
dealer says it contacted Mr A and Mrs H on numerous occasions letting them know the car
was ok and ready for collection. When it wasnt collected it notified them that a storage
charge would be imposed.
Blue responded to the request to cancel the agreement and explained that if they did so Mr
A and Mrs H would be liable for the car and would have to find an alternative source of
funding. It also rejected their subsequent complaint.
Mr A and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. In addition to their concerns about the
recall they said that the dealer didnt properly explain the hire purchase contract and they
were pressurised to buy the car. Initially, our investigator thought the complaint should be
upheld and Mr A and Mrs H be allowed to reject the car.
The business said the recall wasnt made until after the sale and it told us that the matter
had been considered in the courts. Mrs H told us that they had taken a case against the
dealer to court and the judge concluded it should have been against Blue and so it was
dismissed.
She also pointed out that the recall issued for this make and model of car dated from
November 2017, before the date of sale. She referenced a statement from the Driver and
Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA) which states: Its an offence for a motor dealer to sell a
car with an outstanding vehicle safety recall. They need to get it fixed before a car is sold.
The dealer has said the recall wasnt recorded for the car until June 2019 and the judge had
dismissed Mr H and Mrs As case on its merits. It said it also sought advice from Trading
Standards and was told that rejection wasnt appropriate.
Our adjudicator concluded that the manufacturers approved garage had said there was no
fault with the vehicle. Although there was an outstanding recall, the issue raised by the recall
was not present. So, despite there being a recall there was no evidence to show there was a
fault with the car.
He felt that for the purposes of a consumer credit agreement, the car was of satisfactory
quality at the point of sale as there was no fault present. He could only consider rejection if
he could establish that there was a fault present or developing at the point of supply. After
reconsidering the evidence provided by both parties, he didnt think there was evidence to
show a fault was present or developing.
Mr A and Mrs H didnt agree. They provided an email from the manufacturer dated 25 June
2019 confirming there was a recall for the car. They said the car should not have been sold
as it was an offence to sell a car for which there was an outstanding recall. They said that
any decision issued by this service should take into account the law. I issued a provisional 
decision as follows:
I said that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it.
Blue is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I said the complaint was centred around the matter of the safety recall. There had been 
some debate about the date this was issued. The message received by Mr A and Mrs H 
refers to an outstanding recall since at least 22 June 2019. That doesnt mean that was the 
date the recall was issued. The government web site detailing recalls records that for this 
particular make and model there was a recall relating to passenger airbags dated 28 
November 2017.
I believed it reasonable to conclude that this was the recall which applied to the car in
question. That meant the car was sold with an active recall. I checked the government
website for details of the car and could see that there were no outstanding recalls. This fitted 
with the dealer explanation that the recall was dealt with by a main dealer shortly after it was
returned.
I noted the General Product Safety Regulations 2005 (GPSR) state: The distributor shall act 
with
due care in order to help ensure compliance with the applicable safety requirements and in
particular heshall not expose or possess for supply or offer or agree to supply, or supply, a
product to any person which he knows or should have presumed, on the basis of informationin his possession and as a professional, is a dangerous product
In its guidance notes DVSA says that it considers that this identifies that a product with an
outstanding safety recall should not be passed to a consumer. Producers and distributors
are professionals in their field and should therefore be fully aware that safety recalls exist
and that they can occur on any product.
Under the regulations the dealer should not have sold the car without addressing the recall,
however, I had to consider how that interacted with consumer law, in particular the
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). Did the failure to abide by the GPSR give Mr A and Mrs
H the right to reject the goods within 30 days?
I noted the right to reject exists if the goods do not conform to the contract because of a 
breach. In this case the relevant requirement in the CRA is that the goods be of satisfactory 
quality. I explained I had set out those requirements in general terms in the paragraphs 
above.
The DVSA guide on safety recalls defines them as: The action taken when a defect is
identified which meets the definition of a safety defect that could result in a risk of serious
injury. It is a precautionary action taken by the manufacturer, when they have identified a
significant safety issue on a product that has been sold to a consumer in the United
Kingdom.
This action is taken where there is a design or construction defect liable to cause significant
risk of a serious personal injury or death. The safety recall ensures that the consumer is
notified about the issue and has the opportunity to return the product to the dealership or
supplier for repair, exchange or refund (depending on the product presented).
I said this suggests that for a recall to be instigated there must be a defect that could result 
in serious injury. It didnt say that every car that is subject to a recall is at risk, but it allows
consumers to have the car inspected and a fix applied if appropriate.
At the point of sale this was the state of play. The car was sold with a defect that could pose
a safety risk. However, from what I understood the defect was fixed relatively easily and at
no cost to either the dealer or Mr A and Mrs H.
In most cases I suspected the purchaser would have the work done and have kept the car.
However, Mr A and Mrs H chose to request rejection and I noted that there may have
been other factors in their decision since they expressed an interest in buying a cheaper car.
It seemed to me that at the point of sale the car had a defect which was recognised by the
manufacturer and which posed a safety risk and even if that was subsequently remedied, I
considered there was a breach in the contract which would allow them to exercise their right 
to reject. Because they sought to reject within 30 days the dealer didnt have the right to one 
attempt at a repair. As such I considered this complaint should be upheld.
Blue didnt agree with my provisional decision and submitted a copy of a disclaimer dated 29 
May 2019. This included a manuscript note which reads: Nissan recall customer aware to 
be booked into Nissan at his convenience. This had not been submitted to tis service 
before. I asked Mr A and Mrs H about the disclaimer and they said they had never seen it 
and suggested it was a forgery. They also pointed out they had signed the other documents 
relating to the purchase on 28 May. They added that Blue had written to them in October 
2019 to say: The vehicle was not sold with a recall as you purchased it in May, and the 
recall went out on 22 Jun 2019. They said the dealer had also taken this stance.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the documentation supplied by both parties and I can see there was some 
initial confusion as to the date of the recall notice. The government website doesnt confirm 
the exact date of the initial recall but stays that it has been recalled since at least x date. It 
was presumed by some that the at least date was the original date. 
That said I note that the dealer told Blue on 27 May 2020 that the recall was not notified 
by nissan until the 22 june 2019 as the paperwork attached shows the customer purchased 
the car on the 29 /5/19 so at the point of sale there was no safety recall on the car after the 
customer returned the car on the 13 june we booked the car into nissan who carried out the 
recall and a full health and safety check was carried out with no faults found 
This is at odds with the apparent disclaimer which the dealer says was given to Mr A and 
Mrs H on 29 May. It added that the judge which had dismissed Mr A and Mrs Hs claim had 
been told the recall occurred on 22 June 2019 after the car had been sold. It suggested this 
was influential in the judges final decision. I have also noted an email sent by Mr H to the 
dealer on 25 June 2019 which shows he had raised the issue of the manufacturers recall. 
As such I find it difficult to accept that Mr A and Mrs H were made aware of the recall when 
they acquired the car given the evidence provided to this service previously. I remain of the 
view that it was sold with the recall unresolved which means it was sold with a defect. I 
consider rejection to be the appropriate solution. In the overall circumstances I do not 
consider any additional compensation is required.
Putting things right
Mr A and Mrs H should be allowed to reject the car.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
allow Mr A and Mrs H to reject the car,
unwind the agreement,
refund their deposit plus annual interest at 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date it is repaid. 
refund any monthly payments they have made to Blue plus annual interest at 8% 
simple from the date paid until repaid. 
remove any adverse entry from their credit files. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman