DRN-2654496
The complaint
 The Trustees of Mrs Hs Discounted Gift Plan (DGP) complain that St James Place UK plc 
(SJP) delayed surrender of the plan.
What happened
 Mrs H took out a DGP that was held in trust for the benefit of her two children. One of the 
trustees, Mr M, is also Mrs Hs attorney appointed under a Power of Attorney and it is Mr M 
who has in the main raised issues with the way SJP has dealt with surrender of the DGP. 
In 2018 SJP were asked to surrender the DGP by way of a withdrawal request that was sent 
to SJP at the end of October 2018 by Mrs Hs IFA. This was rejected by SJP as the 
withdrawal request was only signed by one trustee and SJP was asked to pay the proceeds 
to Mrs H when it was payable to the trust.
The IFA resolved this issue but was then told of further requirements that SJP had, namely 
that Mrs H had to confirm she relinquished rights to income from the DGP in the future and 
complete a health questionnaire. This caused delay in surrender of the DGP.
SJP accepted that it had caused delay in the surrender of the DGP because it didnt need 
the health questionnaire to be completed before surrender. It backdated the surrender value 
of the DGP to the value the plan wouldve had if surrendered on 24 November 2018 - on the 
basis that the information it needed had been received by 23 November 2018. It also paid 
interest on that amount up to the date of actual surrender and offered £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following key points:
There were two periods of potential delay, the first being the period between when 
the IFA first contacted SJP in 2017 and the withdrawal form being send in October. 
The second being the period after the withdrawal form was sent.
Regarding the first period of delay the IFA had previously obtained information about 
certain products based on a letter of authority he provided but when he had later 
sought information about the ISA this hadnt been provided, on the basis the 
information in the letter of authority didnt match the information SJP held.
However, I had seen no evidence the IFA had responded to SJP to point out it had 
previously accepted the letter of authority or querying what information differed from 
the information SJP had.
The correspondence from the IFA gave no sense the information he required was 
required urgently or was delaying him being able to provide advice. In the 
circumstances there is not persuasive evidence that SJPs response to requests for 
information before October 2017 caused delay in the withdrawal form being sent.
Regarding the second period of delay SJP accepted it had caused some delay 
because it asked for up-to-date health information that wasnt required. It calculated 
that but for this it would have had the information it required by 23 November 2018 
and calculated the difference in value between the DGP on 24 November 2018 and 
the amount paid out on 31 December 2018.
I dont think SJP has used the right date for when it would have had the information it 
needed.
If it had not got things wrong SJP would have had the information that it needed by 
13 November 2018. This is because it had identified on 7 November 2018 that it 
didnt have everything it needed and informed the IFA of this. He then provided what 
it said it required by 13 November 2018. But SJP hadnt told him it needed Mrs H to 
confirm she relinquished any right to income, and only informed him of this 19 
November 2018.
It is reasonable to have expected SJP to have informed the IFA of the need for Mrs H 
to confirm she relinquished her right to income earlier, when it identified other 
information it was missing on 7 November 2018.
SJP should calculate the difference in the surrender value actually paid and what 
would have been paid if the surrender had taken place on 14 November 2018. If the 
value would have been more on 14 November 2018 it should pay the difference 
together with interest.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further information that 
wanted me to consider before making my final decision. SJP responded and said it agreed 
with my findings.
From what it has said it had originally intended to apply the best price as between settlement 
on 14 November 2018 and settlement on 24 November 2018 when it originally dealt with the 
complaint  as it had already identified it could have applied the surrender as of 13 
November 2018. Despite its intentions it didnt do that and used the 24 November 2018 
valuation when the best price was the 14 November 2018.
SJP also noted that there could be tax implications if the Trust has paid tax on the gain 
based on the 24 November 2018 valuation given the gain is higher based on the valuation 
on 14 November 2018. It has suggested it will pay any additional tax or late fees HMRC 
applies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have been provided with no further information or evidence that would lead me to change 
the main findings in my provisional decision, which SJP agrees with.
In terms of redress I didnt address any possible tax issues in my provisional decision, and I 
am grateful to SJP for pointing this out. I agree with its suggestion that it should pay any 
additional tax/late fees arising from a higher surrender value being calculated as a result of 
my decision.
Putting things right
  SJP should calculate the difference in the surrender value it actually paid and the surrender 
value it wouldve paid if surrender had taken place on 14 November 2018. If the surrender 
value on 14 November 2018 wouldve been higher it should pay the difference to the trust. It 
should also pay simple interest at a rate of 8% each year. I note that SJP offered £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused which I think is 
reasonable.
If any additional tax/late fees are payable by the trust as a result of calculating the surrender 
value as at 14 November 2018 SJP must pay this.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above and in my earlier provisional 
decision. St James Place UK plc must calculate redress as I have set out and pay this to the 
trust.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Trustees to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman