DRN-2066860
The complaint
K, a limited company, complain that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money it lost following a 
scam.
What happened
In March 2015 K fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
K received an order from a client in 2015. The client made an initial payment to K, but before 
the order was fulfilled the client decided it didnt want to go ahead with the order. So K had to 
return the money it had received to its client.
K received an email in February 2015, with the details of the bank account that the refund 
had to go to and, on 2 March 2015, K made an international payment for 30,000 euros to the 
account details provided. However, K heard some days later its client hadnt received the 
refund and told K the account details within the email were incorrect. Unknown to K at the 
time, the email account had been compromised, and the account details it had been sent 
were not its clients, so instead of paying its client K had made the payment to a fraudster. 
K reported the scam to Lloyds who contacted the bank that had received the funds. 
However, the receiving bank responded to say that it was unable to refund any of the money 
that had been paid. 
K complained to Lloyds. It said its client had taken legal action against it to recover the 
money and K wanted a full refund from Lloyds for the money lost  as it said Lloyds had not 
been helpful. Lloyds issued its final response on 24 June 2019. It said it was unable to 
uphold Ks complaint, so it couldnt refund the money K had lost. But it said there had been a 
delay in it responding to K, and in recognition of this it paid K £50 for the trouble and upset. 
Lloyds said it wasnt able to recover any money from the receiving bank and overall it didnt 
agree there had been a bank error that had led to the money being lost. 
K then brought the complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds could have done anything to prevent the scam  he didnt 
consider the payment K made was particularly out of the ordinary, or so unusual that it 
should have raised Lloyds suspicions. And he didnt think Lloyds missed an opportunity to 
identify the payment could potentially have been in relation to a scam.  Our investigator also 
thought Lloyds did what it could to try and recover the funds from the receiving bank.
K didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to K, and I can understand entirely why it feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to it. But having thought very carefully about 
Lloydss actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Ks 
account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover the 
money. 
Having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Ks complaint. I do appreciate how 
disappointing this will be for K, and I dont underestimate the impact that this fraud has had 
on K. But I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say Lloyds should reimburse K the money 
it has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
K, when it made the transfer to a fraudster and when it reported the fraud, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
In making the faster payment, Im satisfied K authorised the transaction. Because of this, 
Lloyds had an obligation to follow its instruction. But there are some situations in which it 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as 
Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.Lloyds has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say that the transaction was so unusual or suspicious in comparison to 
Ks normal account activity that it ought to have alerted Lloyds that K was at risk of financial 
harm. 
I say this as having reviewed the activity on Ks company account statements, for the twelve-
month period leading up to the scam, I dont think the payment K made to the fraudster was 
particularly unusual or out of character in comparison to the normal account activity. There 
are several other transactions, including international payments, for large amounts. From 
what Ive seen the payment didnt clear an unusual amount off of the account balance, which 
can often be the case with scams. 
It doesnt appear to me that it was uncommon for K to make large international payments, so 
the payment for 30,000 euros simply doesnt look particularly unusual or out of character to 
me  it looks much like Ks typical account usage. As a result, I dont think Lloyds acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment before processing it. There isnt 
enough here for me to think Lloyds should have suspected K might be about to fall victim to 
a fraud.
Ive gone on to think about whether Lloyds did what it shouldve done once K reported to it 
that it had been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Lloyds made to recover 
the money, once K reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Lloyds to 
refund the money to K, I need to be satisfied that Lloyds should have acted sooner in trying 
to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it 
made any difference.
In this case I can see Lloyds raised the claim against the receiving bank. But the response 
from the receiving bank was that no funds could be returned. So, Lloyds wasnt able to 
recover the money K had paid the fraudster. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded Lloyds did 
what it should have and didnt miss an opportunity to recover any funds. 
I understand K has mentioned a voluntary code. I think what K is referring to is The 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code). The CRM code was introduced on 28 May 
2019. The CRM code does not cover international payments; therefore, I cant take it into 
consideration when deciding this complaint. 
I think the £50 Lloyds offered K for its delayed response is fair and reasonable. The main 
cause of the distress and inconvenience here were the actions of the fraudsters who have 
tricked K into sending money. As Ive said above, I simply dont think Lloyds could 
reasonably have prevented this. So I do not hold it responsible for the distress and 
inconvenience due to the scam itself, and I dont require it to do more here.
Its very unfortunate K has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, and I 
understand the whole experience has been deeply upsetting for the directors of K. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds should have done more to prevent K from 
losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Lloyds to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ks complaint against Lloyds 
Bank PLCUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman