DRN-1227664
 
The complaint
Mr H says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H applied for a credit card with Egg in 2002. At the same time, PPI was added to the 
credit card, providing him with cover in the event of disability and unemployment. It also 
included cover for death and serious illness.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Before adding the policy, Egg had to make it clear to Mr H that it was optional. He says it 
didnt do so. Im satisfied Mr H applied for the credit card online, so Ive looked at the 
screens I believe hed have seen and completed during the application process. These 
included a section on PPI. The section included a box to click on if he wanted PPI, and an 
equally prominent one to click on just below it if he didnt. Eggs internal records of the 
application indicate he chose to have PPI. 
So, I think Egg made it clear that it was selling PPI, that it was optional and that Mr H agreed 
to have it, knowing he had a choice. But, given that was back in 2002, its understandable if 
he doesnt remember that now.
I dont think Egg recommended the PPI to Mr H. This means Egg didnt have to look into 
whether it was right for him. But it should have provided enough information about the PPI 
for Mr H to make up his own mind as to whether it was right for him.
From what Ive seen, I dont think Egg made all the information Mr H needed clear to him. 
But, having gone on to consider what difference that might have made to Mr H, I dont think 
better information would have stopped him from buying the PPI. Thats because:
Based on what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, he was eligible for the 
PPI. And while the PPI had certain exclusions to, or limits on, the cover I cant see 
that he was affected by them. 
Mr H says hed have received generous sick pay from his employer and so didnt 
need PPI. But he had no other means of making his monthly repayments if he wasnt working. And the PPI benefits  which also covered him for unemployment  would 
have paid out on top of his sick pay and for longer, at up to 12 months per claim. 
Overall, I think Mr H would have valued the extra security the PPI provided.
Theres nothing to suggest hed have considered the monthly premium to be 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible enough that Mr H could have cancelled it at 
any time, and at no extra cost, if he no longer wanted it.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr H has lost out because of how Egg sold 
him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman