DRN-3371751
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under her home emergency policy, 
about how Aviva responded to a leak at a property she owned and rented out.
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
Mrs D was supported by a representative when making her complaint. References to Mrs D 
include her representative.
What happened
In September 2021 Mrs D contacted Aviva to report a leaking pipe under the kitchen floor at 
her property. Aviva agent an engineer to inspect the property. When the engineer attended, 
he found water on the path side of the property and concluded it was a water supply issue. A 
second, water supply engineer attended and turned off the stopcock inside the property and 
as the water meter stopped moving, concluded it was an issue with surface or spring water 
(or water coming from another propertys supply). As such, Aviva told Mrs D the issue was 
with the external water supply, so should contact the water supply company.
Mrs D then engaged her own surveyor and builders, who began excavating the following 
month. They concluded the issue was a leaking pipe under the kitchen floor. Mrs D 
contacted Aviva, who agreed to send an engineer to meet Mrs Ds builder. An engineer 
attended and fixed the leaking pipe.
Mrs D was unhappy that the leaking pipe hadnt been diagnosed in either of the first two 
visits by Avivas engineers and it wasnt until she engaged her own surveyor and builder that 
the leaking pipe was diagnosed and fixed. She was also unhappy at incurring £2,190 in 
costs for her surveyor and builder. So, Mrs D complained to Aviva.
Aviva upheld the complaint. In their final response, Aviva acknowledged Mrs D had been 
given incorrect advice that the leak was external to the property (and so fell under the water 
supply companys responsibility). Whereas the leak was under the kitchen floor and so was 
within the property and covered by the policy. Aviva apologised to Mrs D and offered £150 in 
compensation. But they didnt agree to reimburse Mrs D for the costs shed incurred, as they 
hadnt authorised the costs in advance (as the policy required).
Unhappy at Avivas final response, Mrs D complained to this service. The main point of her 
complaint was that shed incurred costs of £2,190 when she thought Aviva should have 
diagnosed (and fixed) the leaking pipe under the kitchen floor during the first or second visits 
by their engineers. She wanted compensation from Aviva for the costs shed incurred.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Aviva hadnt acted fairly. She 
thought that had Aviva identified the leak as coming from under the kitchen floor at 
the outset, and not told her it was external (which wouldnt be covered under the 
policy) Mrs D wouldnt have needed to engage her own surveyor and builder (and 
incurred the costs). However, the investigator noted Mrs D said the costs had 
subsequently been reimbursed under her home insurance policy  although shed 
had to pay a £250 excess as shed made a claim under the policy. 
Given this, the investigator thought Aviva should pay Mrs D the £250 excess. The 
investigator also thought Aviva should compensate Mrs D for the likely increase in 
premiums because shed made a claim. While it wasnt possible to determine whether 
an increase in premiums would arise (or the size of any such increase) she thought 
£200 would be a reasonable contribution to any such increases. Both sums would be 
in addition to the £150 compensation offered by Aviva (so making a total of £600).
Aviva disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said where a leak was coming from an unknown source, it 
could take several visits to determine its cause. They maintained the first and second 
visits had indicated an external issue (the first visit) but the [external] water supply 
pipe wasnt subsequently found to be the issue (the second visit). They then advised 
Mrs D to contact the water supply company, who attended and confirmed it wasnt a 
water supply issue. At that point, Aviva thought Mrs D could have contacted them to 
ask for further investigation (rather than engaging her own surveyor and builder). 
Aviva said they didnt advise her to do this (nor authorised it). So, Aviva didnt agree 
that any costs associated with Mrs D engaging the surveyor and builder were their 
(Avivas) responsibility  including any increases in the home insurance premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mrs D.
The key issue in Mrs Ds complaint is that Aviva didnt identify the leak as coming from under 
the kitchen floor in two visits, only fixing the leak once Mrs Ds builder had attended and 
started work. Mrs D says Aviva should have identified the leak correctly on the first or 
second visit. Also, as they told her the issue wasnt covered under her home emergency 
policy, she had to engage her own surveyor and builder (which then led to the leak being 
correctly identified and fixed). 
For their part, Aviva say that leaks can take more than one visit to be correctly identified, and 
once the water company had confirmed the issue wasnt from the external water supply, Mrs 
D could have contacted them for further investigation (rather than engaging her own 
surveyor and builder). As such, they hadnt advised her to engage her own surveyor or 
builder (not authorised the associated costs). As such, they cant be held responsible for the 
costs (nor any associated costs of her making a claim under her home insurance policy).
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the supporting evidence and information. 
Based on this, on balance, I dont agree with Avivas view, for the reasons Ill set out.
Looking at what happened, when Mrs D first contacted Aviva to report the leak, she told 
them water was coming up through the kitchen floor (which Aviva acknowledge) and it was 
leaking outside. While I accept the source of leaks can be difficult to determine accurately, I 
think this should have indicated the likely cause of the leak. Ive also noted Avivas final 
response accepts Mrs D was given incorrect advice that the leak was external (and so the 
responsibility of the water company). While I havent seen any clear evidence that Aviva told 
Mrs D this meant the leak wasnt covered under the policy, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for her to have thought this, as she was being told to contact the water supply company. In the circumstances, given the leak was ongoing, and two visits from Avivas engineers 
indicated the issue was external to the property (and so not their responsibility) I think it was 
reasonable for Mrs D to engage her own surveyor and builder, who were then able to 
determine the leak was coming from under the kitchen floor (as Mrs D had originally said).
While Mrs D originally asked for Aviva to reimburse the cost of her surveyor and builder 
(both in her complaint to them and to this service) it appears the cost has subsequently been 
covered under her home insurance policy. As another insurance policy has covered the cost, 
it wouldnt be reasonable for it to be borne by Aviva. But while the cost has been covered, 
shes had to pay the policy excess (£250) and will have a claim recorded under the policy. 
As I think Avivas engineers should have correctly diagnosed the leak as coming from the 
kitchen, then Ive concluded its reasonable for them to put Mrs D in the position she would 
have been had that happened. 
To do this, I think its fair and reasonable to pay the policy excess (£250). While the impact 
on future premiums of a claim being made against her home insurance policy cant readily 
be quantified (future premiums will depend on a range of factors as well as a claim having 
been made) its likely, all other things being equal, to lead to an increase. In the 
circumstances, I think £200 is reasonable. I also think Avivas offer of compensation for the 
inconvenience suffered by Mrs D is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs D:
£150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
£250 in respect of the excess shes paid under the claim on her home insurance 
policy.
£200 in respect of the likely future increase in her home insurance premiums. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman