DRN-2824022
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax wont refund him after he lost 
money to an investment scam.
Background
Mr A says an individual posing as a foreign exchange trader began following him on 
Instagram. Mr A followed the individual back and, a few weeks later, was contacted directly 
by the individual asking if hed be interested in investing - which he confirmed he would. 
Unbeknownst to Mr A at the time, the trader was in fact a fraudster.
Mr A was told by the fraudster that hed need to invest a minimum of £600, but that hed be 
guaranteed a return of at least £4,900 within the hour. The fraudster explained they were 
able to do this by buying stock currency for under a third of its original value, then selling it 
on. The fraudster advised they guarantee that customers will never take a loss. On this 
basis, Mr A decided to invest £600.
Mr A was provided account details for the finance department in another individuals name, 
to which he made the £600 payment. Following the payment, Mr A received confirmation 
through a popular messaging app that his payment had been received. The message also 
confirmed that he was liable to pay any fees necessary to release his profits.
Around an hour after making the payment, Mr A was advised his trade had closed and he 
had in fact made around £15,000 in profit. He was told that in order to release the profit hed 
need to pay a £4,000 fee. Mr A says he explained he didnt have £4,000 available and so the 
fee was reduced to £1,000, with the understanding the remaining fee outstanding would be 
paid once his profits were released.
Having paid a further £1,000 Mr A was told to wait until midnight to receive his profit. When 
this didnt happen, Mr A attempted to access the fraudsters Instagram and found he had 
been blocked. Its then he realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr A reported the incident to Halifax and it investigated his fraud claim. Halifax contacted the 
beneficiary account to attempt to recover funds, but unfortunately none were available. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his claim, Mr A made a complaint to Halifax.
Halifax considered its obligations to provide Mr A with a refund. It is a signatory of the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Halifax says one or more of those exceptions applies in 
this case.
Halifax said Mr A didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the investment was legitimate 
and that the returns he was promised were too good to be true.
Mr A disagreed with Halifax so brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the case and thought Halifax acted fairly by declining Mr As fraud claim under 
the CRM Code. She didnt consider Mr A had done enough to verify the fraudster was a 
genuine investor, or using a legitimate investment platform. She also thought Mr A shouldve 
questioned whether the profits he was promised, in the timescales stated, were realistic.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators outcome, so the case has been referred to me for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Halifax should have reimbursed Mr A under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect Mr A from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr A was tricked into making the payment. He thought he was 
making a genuine investment on a trading platform and that didnt happen. But this isnt 
enough, in and of itself, for Mr A to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The Code places 
a level of care on Mr A too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, Halifax is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Halifax to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.In this case, I think Halifax has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse  
Mr A under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Halifax has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mr A was making are enough to support its position that he 
failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments he made. I 
dont think he had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine goods or 
services and the person he transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why.
Mr A has explained he was first approached by the fraudster and after a few weeks 
presented with the investment opportunity. Hes said the fraudster told him she could 
purchase currency for a third of its value, guaranteeing their customers will never make a 
loss, in return for a 25% commission. She guaranteed a return of £4,900 within an hour, 
although later told Mr A hed made over £15,000. I think there are several elements of the 
fraudsters story that should have raised concerns with Mr A and caused him to ask further 
questions, or complete further checks. 
The fraudster hadnt provided any explanation as to how she was able to purchase currency 
at such a low value. As the fraudster has suggested there are no risks, I also think its 
questionable why she would choose to provide this service for a 25% commission rate, 
rather than solely invest her own money, considering the speed at which vast profits could 
be gained. I would also question why she would need to reach out to prospective clients 
herself when she had such a lucrative opportunity. I also think the speed and rate of return 
shouldve caused Mr A concern as being too good to be true  whilst I accept foreign 
exchange markets can be volatile, I think guaranteeing such a high rate of return within just 
one hour is an unrealistic assurance. 
Also, while I accept Mr A had no previous investment experience, investments, by their 
nature, will involve some level of risk. I dont think the fraudster gave a plausible explanation 
as to how she could offer a guaranteed return and had Mr A sought independent advice 
before proceeding, I think it wouldve been identifiable from this that the investment was not 
legitimate.
Mr A has said he believed the fraudster was genuine because they were posting daily on 
their Instagram page and that when making the payment, his banking app verified that the 
account details provided matched the intended payee. However, hes acknowledged he 
completed no further checks on the trader outside of Instagram and received no paperwork 
providing additional information as would be expected as part of a genuine investment. Mr A 
was also told to pay a different individual to who he had been communicating with  and 
while he was told that this was the finance department, the account was in an individuals 
name, rather than a business account. Therefore even considering the online content Mr A 
saw and the positive account match Mr A saw when making the payment, I dont think this 
outweighs other elements of the scam that ought to have caused Mr A concern.  
With all of the above in mind, I consider that Mr A ought to have had concerns about the 
legitimacy of the opportunity he was presented with and that, in turn, ought to have led to a 
greater degree of checking on Mr As part. In not carrying out sufficient checks I dont find he 
had a reasonable basis for believing the opportunity was legitimate and so fell below the 
level of care expected of him under the CRM Code.
Should Halifax have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr K?
Ive thought about whether Halifax did enough to protect Mr A from financial harm. The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Mr A made this payment, Halifax should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
In this case, Halifax has said that the payments made by Mr A werent detected by its 
systems as being a potential fraud risk and therefore no warnings were provided.
Having considered the payments Mr A made, I dont think these were so remarkable, in 
comparison to his usual account activity, that they shouldve appeared as suspicious to 
Halifax. I therefore dont think Halifax failed to meet its standards under the Code by not 
providing Mr A with a warning, prior to processing the payment.
Once it was made aware of the scam, Halifax tried to recover Mr As funds, but unfortunately 
was advised by the beneficiary account that no funds remained. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think Halifax could reasonably have done anything further to recover Mr As 
payments.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifaxs position on Mr As fraud claim, and its assessment under 
the CRM Code, is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and that Halifax shouldnt 
be held liable for Mr As losses. And so I dont intend to make an award to Mr A. 
I do sympathise with Mr A as hes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. And I dont doubt 
Mr A had legitimate intentions to invest and see favourable returns. But the circumstances of 
the case and the evidence available lead me to find Im unable to uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman