DRN-1509704
The complaint
Mr H complains that PSA Finance UK Limited overcharged him for damages and missing 
items when he returned his car at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
Mr Hs finance agreement came to an end in April 2019. In early February PSA wrote to him 
to tell him about the options available to him. The car was collected by an agent acting for 
PSA. The car was inspected and various areas of damage were recorded. The report 
recorded that there was a missing service history and a missing service book. It shows a 
total cost of £428. Mr H was also charged for excess mileage.
Mr H complained and said he had been told he could post the service book and he had done 
so when he found it shortly after collection. He accepted the charge for the excess mileage 
and the damage to one wheel but rejected the other charges. PSA agreed to remove the 
charge for the missing service book and reduce the missing service charge by £100.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He explained that the standard for what 
constituted fair wear and tear was set out in the British Vehicle Renting, Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) guidelines. He reviewed the report and photographs of the damage and concluded 
that each item for which a charge had been levied was beyond fair wear and tear. 
He also said that it was a requirement that the service book must be present with the vehicle 
at the time of collection and be stamped and up to date. If not, the business was entitled to 
make a charge. He thought PSAs response had been fair.
Mr H didnt agree and asked that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the strength of feeling shown by Mr H, but I dont consider I can uphold his 
complaint. I will explain why.
Mr H entered into a contract with PSA and in that he agreed to return the vehicle in good 
condition. The agreement sets out in some detail what constitutes good condition and this is 
in accordance with the BVRLA guidelines. The contract also allows for a charge for excess 
mileage to be made and for missing items to be charged also. 
Our investigator has set out in some detail why the various items of damage are chargeable. 
I will not repeat that here save to say that I have reviewed the report and I am satisfied that 
the damage falls outside fair wear and tear.
The car was sold almost immediately and so the fact Mr H posted the missing 
documentation was of no value to PSA. The requirement was that everything be available when the car was collected and as it wasnt that meant its sale price was potentially 
devalued. Mr H has asked for evidence of the cost incurred by PSA in repairing the bumper. 
PSA isnt obliged to have the car repaired. It can choose to sell it and accept the possible 
reduction in value. 
In essence, at the outset of an agreement PSA calculates the monthly rental payments on 
the cost of the car and the likely value when it is returned. That calculation is based on the 
car being in good condition and if it is not than it is entitled to seek payment from the hirer to 
compensate. This is what it has done and I can see no grounds that would allow me to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman