DRN-4211577
The complaint
Mr B complains that Business Insurance Solutions Limited (BISL) overcharged him for a 
commercial vehicle policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a policy with BISL. When validating the policy, BISL said Mr Bs no claims 
discount (NCD) couldnt be used toward this policy. It said the policy would be cancelled, 
and a new one, with the correct NCD, and consequently a higher premium set up in its 
place.
But Mr B said he had two policies running at the same time, the initial one, with the incorrect 
NCD, and the new one, with correct NCD. While BISL were investigating this, Mr B was 
charged again for both policies.
BISL acknowledged its error and agreed to refund any incorrect payments Mr B was 
charged.
But Mr B said this hasnt been done, so he complained to BISL.
BISL didnt respond, so Mr B brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said hed seen BISL confirm Mr 
B should get a refund, but hed not seen anything confirming that refund had been given. He 
recommended BISL pay Mr B £359.44 for the payments, £3.89 for the direct debit interest 
and 8% simple interest on the total amount to compensate for the time Mr B was without the 
funds. He also recommended BISL pay Mr B £100 compensation.
BISL didnt respond, so the case has come to me to issue a decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Mr B was informed hed get a refund of the payments taken in error. But 
weve not been provided any information to evidence this refund took place, despite 
asking for it from BISL on a number of occasions.
Without evidence this refund was given, the only evidence we have is Mr Bs 
testimony that the refunds havent been given to him
So, BISL should now process the refund, add interest, and compensate Mr B for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by having to chase it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Business Insurance 
Solutions Limited to:
Pay Mr B £359.44 which represents the payments BISL took in error
Pay Mr B £3.89 which includes the direct debit interest on these payments  also 
taken in error
Pay Mr B 8% interest on the two points above. Interest should be calculated from the 
day the payments were taken, to the day BISL makes this payment
Pay Mr B £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman