DRN-3477242
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly granted him credit that he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
NewDay approved a credit card application for Mr M in February 2015. They initially 
provided a credit limit of £250 but in August 2015 they increased the credit limit to £550.
Mr M says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
NewDay disagree. They say that they relied on what Mr M told them about his income when 
opening his account and that they used information from his credit file and an assessment of 
his likely expenditure when agreeing to provide the credit. They noted that there were some 
occasions when Mr M had gone overlimit prior to the August 2015 limit increase and they 
also noted thered been a missed payment, but they didnt think that meant the credit had 
been provided irresponsibly.
Our investigator thought that NewDay shouldnt have provided the limit increase in August 
2015 and he suggested NewDay should take some action to remedy the situation. But as 
NewDay disagreed the complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Account opening.
NewDay says it looked at Mr Ms credit file and noted there were no active payment 
arrangements or County Court Judgements and that his payments to other credit providers 
where up to date. Mr M had told them he was working and provided details of his income. 
On that basis I think the checks NewDay completed were reasonable. There was nothing in 
the credit history to suggest payment difficulties and whilst Mr Ms income was relatively low 
so was the credit limit NewDay approved the card on. 
August 2015 limit increase.
NewDay more than doubled the credit limit in August 2015. They say they noted the limit had 
been exceeded in previous months and that there was one late payment fee on Mr Ms 
account. But they also reviewed his credit file and could see that Mr M wasnt in arrears with 
his other credit commitments.
I dont think those checks were proportionate. The new limit represented more than 10% of 
Mr Ms gross income and there were signs of distress on his NewDay account that I think 
merited further exploration. Hed been at, or beyond, his credit limit for each of the four 
preceding months, had incurred a late fee, and had been using his credit card to obtain cash 
which was an expensive option. I think those issues warranted further investigation into      
Mr Ms financial situation.
I think it would have been proportionate for NewDay to have found out more about Mr Ms 
committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what NewDay would 
have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable 
to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ms bank statements as to 
what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed statements from April and August 2015 as these were the only ones Mr M 
could obtain. Given the time thats passed and the closure of his current accounts, that has 
been evidenced in the credit file Mr M has provided, Im persuaded Mr M has made 
reasonable efforts to obtain his bank statements and that the statements hes provided give 
a reasonably accurate picture of what NewDay would have seen if theyd asked.
The statements show that Mr M didnt have enough disposable income to afford the 
repayments. Mr M was paying a significant amount of his income towards other credit card 
balances and a running credit account (over £600 in August 2015) and his expenditure on 
driving lessons needed for work was about £100 a month. There were also expenses for 
food and telephone/communication costs. This demonstrates that Mr M didnt have enough 
disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. NewDay therefore didnt act fairly by 
approving the credit limit increase in August 2015.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Mr Ms credit limit beyond £250, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Mr M has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think he 
should pay this back. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded) that have been applied to balances above £250. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr M along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after the August 2015 limit increase regarding this account from Mr Ms credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £250, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the remaining amount. Once    
Mr M has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
the August 2015 increase in relation to the account should be removed from his 
credit file. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to put things right in the manner set out 
above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman