DRN-2169374
The complaint
Mr J complains that delays by HSBC UK Bank Plc when he applied for a mortgage meant he 
faced additional costs when he bought a property. Mr J would like HSBC to reimburse the 
costs of £28,086.25.
What happened
Mr J who lived abroad was buying a property for £1,035,000 and applied for a mortgage 
through a broker with HSBC at the end of June 2019. HSBC issued a decision in principle 
(DIP) on 26 June 2019 and on 3 July the broker applied for a mortgage of £435,000 on an 
interest-only basis with a fixed rate at 2.69%. But an offer - which eventually was for 
£500,000.00 - wasnt issued until 10 October 2019 and the purchase completed on 24 
October 2019. Mr J says that the process should have lasted 44 days but lasted 119 days. 
Mr J says as a result he has additional costs including a £10,000.00 forfeited security 
deposit. The delay has also caused himself and his family hardship when they were 
expecting a child. HSBC says that any delays werent caused by it. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld and that as the 
application was initially declined HSBC was entitled to ask for further legitimate information 
and there were no unreasonable delays by HSBC in the process. Mr J disagreed and asked 
for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J was applying for a loan from HSBC and its a matter for HSBC to decide whether it 
wants to provide that loan. But we expect it to make a decision in a reasonable period 
depending on the circumstances. Clearly everything didnt go smoothly with this application 
and thats why Mr J brings this complaint.
Ive looked at HSBCs file to understand why this application took the time it did. Firstly, I 
noted that the application was received by the lender from the broker on 2 July for a loan of 
£435,000.00 and that mortgage was approved subject to valuation on 9 September when the 
broker requested further borrowing of up to £500,000.00 as Mr J wanted to retain more of 
the deposit. HSBCs offer was issued on a rate of 2.84% although the agreed rate was 
2.69% but that seems to have been sorted a week later.
Mr J has set out a timeline with a list of dates when he believes that HSBC were responsible 
for delays and HSBC has also set out a time line where it believes delays occurred. Mr J 
refers to the following series of delays
16 July when Mr J was told by the lender that it had removed all obstacles and 
request further information from the Buyer. 
29 July where Mr J says that the lender asked about acceptable proof of deposit but 
says that this was resolved quickly.
29 August when The Lender raises the issue of demonstrating that interest - only 
payments were acceptable and resolved it the same day.
9 September when the mortgage was approved but for the wrong amount and using 
the wrong rate of interest. 
12 September when for six days HSBC failed to access the valuers report on the its 
portal.
17 September. The Lender told Mr J that they needed to choose a different deal to 
get a mortgage of £500,000.00 but Mr J had already got this deal from HSBC.
19 September - Mr J was told that a delay is being caused because HSBC are using 
two systems to process the application
24 September. HSBC reverses its decision about the applicable interest rate and 
maintains the old rate.
1 October. HSBC asks for new power of attorney from Mr J.
4 and 7 October. HSBC again query repayment plan on this interest only mortgage.
9 October. HSBC issues mortgage approval which Mr J says could have been done 
on 17 September.
10 October. The lender issues a mortgage offer and then asks for another survey but 
realises its error
15 October. HSBC finds original survey 
23 October  mortgage funds transferred to solicitor and purchase completed on 24 
October.
Although that is a long list, I note that in the period 2 July until 9 September  which is the 
bulk of the period - Mr J raises only three issues of delay, two of which he says were 
resolved quickly and the first one which doesnt appear to be a complaint at all. Ive also 
looked at HSBC notes on the application. There was initially a decline which took time to 
resolve. On 16 July HSBC asked for a number of documents which were received by 29 July 
and then sent to underwriter and then some further queries were raised. There s a note on 
the 28 August  many issues came to light based on info/ docs and we sent long list to 
broker re issues seen; then on 30 August inform provided, still outstanding issues; then on 
5 September, HSBC told Mr Js broker that it would withdraw the application if it didnt get a 
response to the information it was looking for. 
It seems that all documents were received on 9 September and a mortgage offer issued on 
17 September, but two further issues arose. HSBC approved a loan of £435,000.00 which 
was what the application was for but based on a different rate than Mr J applied for. As I 
understand it, this was because as a result of the passage of time, the rate that applied to 
the product that Mr J was applying for had increased from 2.69% to 2.84%. According to 
HSBCs file an application was made to amend the amount of the mortgage and the 
mortgage rate. Whilst the application to amend the amount of the mortgage was pending, on 
24 September HSBC approved as an exception the lower rate.So, if I deal with this in stages, in the period until 9 September, Mr J makes very little protest 
about delays and the evidence from HSBC is that any delays were caused by it looking for 
documentation from Mr J. I believe its significant that towards the end of this period on the 5 
September that HSBC was threatening to withdraw from the process because it wasnt 
getting the documentation it needed to issue the offer. That suggest that the lender is 
impatient to complete the process and isnt an indication that its been dragging its heels.
It seems that HSBC then approved the mortgage at a rate of 2.84% which wasnt the rate 
that had been intended. I would have thought that if at that stage the rate of interest was the 
only issue that it could have been resolved swiftly and the application wouldnt have 
continued into October.  But then, late in the day, Mr J wanted to change the amount of the 
loan, so his broker applied to increase the amount of the borrowing to £500,000. That 
application had to be processed and appears to have taken until 10 October to approve. 
Of course, that process went over ground that had been covered in the earlier application 
and Mr J complains of needless duplication. But whilst the issues of duplication must have 
been annoying, they seem to have been resolved in a reasonable period. HSBC will have 
had processes to go through given that it was a sizeable increase in the borrowing and the 
degree of regulation that surrounds mortgage applications and it is entitled to do that. I dont 
see that there were unreasonable or substantial delays by HSBC. I know that this will be 
disappointing to Mr J and Ive no doubt that, given his circumstances that this was a very 
stressful time for him. But having looked at the application as a whole I cant fairly conclude 
that HSBC was responsible for unreasonable delay in processing Mr Js mortgage 
application and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman