DRN-3127631
The complaint
Ms C complains that TransUnion International UK Limited, a credit reference agency, has 
not updated her credit report, which still shows a loan she repaid in 2019.   
What happened
In May 2018 Ms C took out a loan with a lender, which Ill call N. Shortly afterwards, in July 
2018, the loan was defaulted. That default was registered with TransUnion. 
Ms C says she repaid the loan in December 2019. N indicated that it would contact 
TransUnion so that it could update the information it held about Ms C. 
Ms C says however that the information was not updated as promised and so, in January 
2021, she referred the matter to this service. In the course of our investigation Ms C 
provided screenshots indicating that the loan and the default were showing as late as May 
2021. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He said that, to resolve the 
complaint, TransUnion should amend Ms Cs credit file and pay her £250 in recognition of 
the inconvenience to which she had been put. TransUnion responded to say that the credit 
file had been amended. It thought however that the figure of £250 was too high and offered 
£50 instead. As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for further 
consideration.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not clear whether the credit file has now been amended as TransUnion says. The loan 
and default were however still showing at the beginning of May2021. 
TransUnion had however written to Ms C in February 2020 to say that her dispute had been 
successful and that it would be arranging for the credit file to be updated. That would, it said, 
happen within a few days but might take up to four weeks. It repeated that assurance on 
more than one occasion. On any basis, therefore, the changes had not been made well over 
a year after TransUnion said they would be  and possibly longer. 
I have no doubt that Ms C has been put to some inconvenience by having to pursue this 
matter and that she has suffered some distress. She has however told us that she has not 
applied for any further credit recently, so it does not appear that the continuing default on her 
file had caused any actual financial loss. So, whilst the investigators recommendation is 
perhaps towards the upper end of what is fair in the circumstances, it is not unreasonable 
and I do not propose to reduce it. I think TransUnions counter-offer of £50 is however too 
low.       
Putting things right
As I have indicated, it may be that the credit report has been changed, but I will make an 
award requiring TransUnion to amend it in any event.   
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve this complaint in full, TransUnion International UK Limited 
should amend Ms Cs credit file (if it has not already done so) and pay her £250 in 
recognition of the inconvenience she has been put to and the distress caused.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman