DRN-2944083
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc (trading then as National & Provincial) mis-sold 
Mr B payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly-premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1988. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mr B has said he was told he had to have PPI because he was taking a 100% mortgage. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said 
another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt usually be fair to make someone prove 
they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
And given how long ago this was, it wouldnt be surprising if Mr B now didnt fully remember 
the detail of what he was told. So it may not be fair to rely only on what he now remembers. 
Mr B says he successfully complained about the endowment mortgage he took alongside 
this PPI, from the same adviser. He suggests this makes it more likely the PPI was mis-sold. 
Reasons for finding an endowment mortgage was mis-sold are normally different from those 
of PPI. I dont think it makes it any more likely that the adviser told him he had to take PPI. 
 
Santander says that PPI was never a condition of this mortgage. And, I can see in the 
application form that the PPI is at least presented as a choice (although I accept Mr B may 
still have been told something different). Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI 
was added without Mr Bs consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think its likely Santander recommended the PPI to Mr B, and this means we would judge 
its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Bs 
circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr B was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed (the insurer would then judge the claim against the limits and 
restrictions in the policy). 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr B received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr B would 
need to fall back on any other means he may have had for paying the mortgage and 
other living costs. This all would have put Mr B in a more secure position, if hed 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Even though Mr B has said he didnt have a lot of money at the time, Ive not been 
told anything to suggest Mr B couldnt actually afford the PPI, in the sense of it being  
likely to cause difficulties that made taking it unwise (it cost £11.38 on top of a 
mortgage payment of £223.44). So it wasnt unsuitable in that way. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr B would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
It looks likely the monthly price of the policy was explained. So I think Mr B would have 
understood how much it would cost. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman