DRN-4266303
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with the delays she experienced when Vitality Health Limited considered 
her claim. 
What happened
Ms W has private medical insurance with Vitality. She made a claim in October 2022 for her 
frozen left-side shoulder. Ms W said that Vitality took too long to consider her claim as she 
didnt receive a decision until March 2023. Ms W said shed chased Vitality several times 
throughout that period, yet her requests for contact went unfulfilled. Ms W said she was left 
suffering with symptoms of pain and reduced mobility unnecessarily and shed like to be 
fairly compensated for that. 
Vitality accepted itd caused delays. It also recognised the overall service she received was 
below expectation. It offered £100 compensation as an apology. 
Our investigator didnt think that was fair. She recommended Vitality increase its award to 
£300. 
Vitality accepted her recommendation, but Ms W didnt. She said the compensation wasnt 
enough considering the impact this had on her overall health. She explained the delays were 
excessive and because of that, she had to make difficult decisions in her personal life which 
has caused extreme distress. And so, its for me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I've decided to uphold this complaint, but I wont be increasing the 
compensation beyond the award recommended by our investigator. I say that because I 
think £300 compensation is fair in the circumstances. Im aware Ms W had to make some 
difficult personal decisions which Im very sorry to hear about. 
Although I appreciate her choices, I dont think its something that was reasonably 
foreseeable. Its also not something Vitality is responsible for. I accept that Vitality caused 
unnecessary delays whilst handling Ms Ws complaint, but Im satisfied £300 compensation 
is fair. Ill explain why.
Ms W first got in touch with Vitality in October 2022. At that point Vitality shouldve sent her a 
claim form, but I note this didnt happen for almost seven weeks. Ms W had to call Vitality in 
December because shed not heard back from it since raising her claim and it was only then 
that Vitality realised its mistake. Its not in dispute there were delays here. To be clear I think 
they were unnecessary and unfortunate and I acknowledge the impact Ms W said this had 
on her, but I think £300 is fair because I consider it to be a relatively minor error and fair 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Vitality has a responsibility under the insurance conduct of business sourcebook (ICOBS) to 
make sure it doesnt decline claims unfairly. It must also ensure it doesnt cause delays 
unnecessarily. And so, Ive considered whether Vitality met its obligations under ICOBS. Im 
satisfied Vitality didnt do that because it caused delays in this particular case.   
Ms W explained she was left suffering with pain during that time and I wanted to 
acknowledge that too. Im aware that she was prescribed painkillers to help alleviate her 
symptoms and whilst that wasnt ideal for her, Im satisfied her symptoms were being 
managed throughout that time. In addition, Ive not seen any persuasive medical evidence to 
support her testimony here that she experienced distressing levels of pain. 
Ive seen a letter from the orthopaedic surgeon which explained Ms W needs surgery, but it 
doesnt explain anything about the on-going pain she referred to in her complaint. However, I 
note the orthopaedic surgeon said her pain symptoms were improving but with some 
residual discomfort August 2022.
I also noted there was a second delay once Ms W sent her claim form. Vitality received Ms 
Ws additional supporting medical evidence on 20 January 2023. But it wasnt until 7 
February that it made the decision to accept Ms Ws claim. This is a delay of almost two 
weeks, and I consider it unnecessary. Ms W also called Vitality during that time on 31 
January, as shed not heard back from it. I think given the previous issue, I understand why 
Ms W may have felt anxious about whether Vitality was progressing her claim correctly. 
Ms W made additional arguments about the other shoulder now needing the same 
treatment, however, I disagree with the connection she attempted to make here. Ms W said 
because Vitality took so long to arrange treatment for her left-side shoulder, this has now 
caused the same injury in the right-side. I should say theres no medical evidence which 
says thats the reason and so I dont find that argument particularly persuasive in the 
circumstances. 
I think Vitality agree the service offered could have been better. It also accepted the delays 
were unnecessary as it agreed with the investigators recommendation. I think Vitality has 
done enough to put things right and so Im not increasing the compensation award beyond 
£300 because I think it fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Vitality Health Limited must pay Ms W £300 compensation 
for the overall distress and inconvenience caused by delaying her claim unnecessarily. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman