DRN-3990182
The complaint
Mr K complains Motor Insurance Company Limited (MICL) has unfairly declined a claim he 
made on his GAP insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K says he had GAP insurance cover with MICL which he received as part of the purchase 
of his new vehicle. 
Unfortunately Mr K was involved in a road traffic accident on 27 May 2021. The third party 
accepted liability for the accident and the third-party insurer deemed Mr Ks car 
uneconomical to repair. And so the vehicle was written off and Mr K received a settlement 
from the third-party insurer. 
Mr K says he remembered he had the policy with MICL when he was going through some 
paperwork and so Mr K made a claim on that policy. 
MICL declined the claim on the basis it didnt think the accident happened in the way Mr K 
had reported and said Mr K had acted fraudulently. MICL also relied on its own expert who 
said the car was repairable and therefore wasnt deemed a write off. 
Mr K says the car valuation and inspection was carried out by the third-party insurer who had 
accepted liability for the claim. And so he complained to MICL. 
MICL said it instructed an expert to carry out a report on the condition of the vehicle. Its 
expert said he didnt think the damage to the vehicle matched the description of the accident. 
In addition, the expert said the damage to the vehicle could be repaired for approximately 
£6,000 and so didnt agree the car was uneconomical to repair. MICL relied on its experts 
opinion to decline the claim. MICL said the car was not uneconomical to repair and so wasnt 
covered under the terms of the policy. It also said since the damage to the car didnt match 
the circumstances of the accident it believed the claim was being made fraudulently. 
Mr K didnt agree with MICLs response to his complaint so he referred his complaint to this 
service. The investigator looked into things for him and upheld the complaint. She said Mr K 
didnt have any influence on the third partys decision to write the car off and so she thought 
MICL should pay the claim. 
MICL didnt agree with the investigators view. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 24 January 2023 setting out my thoughts on the key 
complaint points. In it I said the following; 
Id like to start by assuring both parties that Ive considered all the information provided to 
me as well as comments from both sides. But Ive commented on whats relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr K has experienced a difficult time during the course of the claim so I can see 
this has been a stressful experience for him. Mr K feels very strongly that MICL has treated 
him unfairly. 
The Services approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurer acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly, and it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. So Ive thought about whether MICL acted in line with 
this. The policy states, following the total loss of your vehicle during the period of insurance 
we will pay the difference  up to the time insured - between the insured value and the 
purchase price of your vehicle. Total loss is defined as where, your vehicle is beyond 
economic repair resulting in a motor insurance settlement.
Mr K provided a report from the third-party insurer that said, this vehicle was not roadworthy 
at the time of our inspection as a result of the damage sustained. The engineer who 
provided the report said it wouldnt be practical to consider cost-effective repairs to make the 
vehicle roadworthy. And so he provided a settlement value which the third-party insurer paid 
to Mr K. And so its clear to me this engineer was of the belief the vehicle was a total loss. 
Following its review of this information MICL had an independent engineer review the 
vehicles damage based on the available evidence; the original report and images of the 
damage. I think this was a reasonable step for it to take in order to assess the claim. 
The engineer provided a detailed report and commentary as to why it felt the initial report 
wasnt accurate. This included comments that the previous engineer had included a number 
of components that had been assessed as requiring replacement but which are very unlikely 
to have been damaged and therefore would not have required replacement. He also says, 
this vehicle will have been a repairable proposition. This suggests to me that the vehicle 
wasnt beyond economic repair. 
Ive considered both reports carefully and Im satisfied its fair for MICL to rely on the advice 
of the engineer it instructed. I say this as its very specific and detailed in its concerns about 
the initial report. And while I recognise it wasnt completed in person it doesnt make the 
report any less persuasive as a result. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr K but having reviewed the information 
provided in this case Im satisfied MICL has acted reasonably by relying on the advice of the 
independent engineer. And Im satisfied it has fairly declined this claim in line with the policy 
terms.
Response to my provisional decision
Neither party has raised any additional points to my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that neither MICL or Mr K had anything to add to the findings set out in my 
provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final decision), 
for the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman