DRN-4136947
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given by Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited 
(VMMF) when he contacted them to query a direct debit on his bank account.
What happened
VMMF advised Mr C that it couldnt find the payment and that it might be fraudulent. Mr C 
contacted his bank to cancel the payment and reclaimed all the payment hed made. VMMF 
later told Mr C that the payment was correctly set up and reported arears on Mr Cs credit 
file.
Mr C reinstated the direct debit and entered into a payment arrangement for the arrears. 
Hes unhappy that his credit file has been negatively impacted.
VMMF said it couldnt remove the adverse information from Mr Cs credit file because there 
was an overdue balance on the account.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Cs complaint. I explained why I didnt think 
VMMF had done enough to check the validity of the direct debit when Mr C initially called 
them and said that I didnt think Mr C wouldve cancelled his direct debit and reclaimed the 
payments if VMMF hadnt given him misleading information. I agreed that VMMF couldnt 
remove the adverse information until the account was cleared but said it should pay 
compensation to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to let me have any further arguments they wished to raise.
VMMF said it had nothing to add. Mr C said he still wasnt happy about the adverse 
information on his credit file but said it had to remain there he wanted more compensation to 
help him pay off the outstanding amount quicker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board what Mr C has said but my view remains the same. My award of 
compensation is for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C as a result of the 
misleading information given by VMMF and I think the amount I have awarded is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited must 
pay compensation of £150 to Mr C. It must remove the adverse information relating to the 
account from Mr Cs credit file once the arrears have been cleared.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman