DRN-1238476
 
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the way Mapfre Asistencia Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A.(Mapfre) has handled his travel medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mr O fell ill on holiday with an ear infection and was given antibiotics and a follow up 
appointment for 12 May 2019. He was due to fly back home on 7 May 2019 and so he called 
Mapfre about this on 5 May 2019. Mapfre said it would pay to re-arrange his flights and 
would also help with accommodation if needed. And so Mr O booked accommodation for a 
further week. 
Mapfres medical team reviewed Mr Os claim two days later and said he was fit to fly. It said 
he should take the flight the same day, but this wasnt possible due to Mr Os distance from 
the airport and also because he was with his wife and young child. 
Mapfre discussed flight options with Mr O and covered the flight costs for Mr O, his wife and 
child and also paid for three nights accommodation up until 10 May 2019. In addition, it paid 
for Mr Os medical treatment and expenses. 
Mr O wasnt happy with this as he wanted Mapfre to cover his accommodation costs for the 
week, for which he had paid upfront. And he says he wasnt able to get a refund. Mapfre 
looked into his complaint and agreed it had made errors. But it said that it had done more 
than what was needed as his policy only covered one additional person if Mapfre deem this 
to be medically necessary. Mapfre explained this was if the patient may need help with 
general mobility, fetching meals, handling luggage, processing documents
In this case, Mapfre said Mr O should fly home and arranged for flights on 10 May 2019 but 
Mr O requested to stay until 12 May 2019 which Mapfre agreed to. Mapfre paid £305 of his 
accommodation costs for the extra week which totalled £600. So Mr O says he is out of 
pocket by £285. Unhappy with Mapfres response to his complaint, Mr O asked our service 
to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said that although Mapfre had made a 
mistake, it had paid for additional flight costs when it didnt have to. And so he didnt think 
Mapfre needed to do anything further. Mr O disagreed and in summary, has made the 
following comments.
The investigator said that Mapfre wasnt responsible for the cost of travel for his wife and 
child. But he says his wife isnt allowed to travel without him and this is one of the conditions 
of her settlement visa. He is her legal sponsor and this applies to anywhere in the world. He 
wasnt advised by Mapfre that he would have to travel separately at any point during the 
claim process. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Os complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as the investigator.
Mr O called Mapfre on 5 May 2019 to tell it that he had seen a doctor and was being treated 
for an ear infection. He said he was advised to go back for a follow up appointment on 12 
May and had been told he wasnt fit to fly although the medical report didnt confirm this. 
Mapfre asked him to upload the medical report and said it would look into this. He told it he 
was due to fly back on 7 May 2019.
A few hours later, Mapfre emailed Mr O and said:
Thank you for sending us the attached documents. I can confirm your case is covered so 
we will be covering the costs of your flight home when you have been cleared to travel and 
accommodation costs should you need assistance with this. When you see the doctor again 
 please send us the medical report to enable our medical panel to review it and confirm 
whether you are safe to fly or notcan I also confirm who will be staying in Thailand with 
you? As there is a plus one cover on your policy.
On the basis of the above email, Mr O booked accommodation for a further week. 
Two days later, Mapfre told Mr O that its medical team deemed he was fit to fly. It said it 
would arrange and pay for his return flights but it said it would only pay for his 
accommodation up to the date of the next available flight which was 10 May 2019. Mr O 
asked if he could stay until 12 May 2019 and Mapfre agreed.
Mr O says he has lost out on the additional accommodation costs after 10 May 2019 and 
believes Mapfre should cover them.
Mapfre therefore made a mistake by telling Mr O that his flights and accommodation would 
be covered by email on 5 May 2019 and took too long to review the medical report by which 
time he had already missed his original flights home. Mr O also booked an extra weeks 
accommodation on the basis that he was told this would be covered in the email of 5 May 
2019.  
What should have happened?
Mapfre should have reviewed Mr Os medical information promptly and therefore would have 
told him that he was deemed fit to fly and should have returned home on his original flight, 
on 7 May 2019. 
Mapfre told Mr O that he was no longer covered after 10 May 2019 and so it would only pay 
his accommodation costs up to this point. Mr O says he has lost out as a result. 
However, Mr O asked Mapfre if he could stay until the 12 May 2019 and for it to book and 
pay for his flights on that day. Mapfre agreed and so Mr O has had the benefit of the 
additional accommodation from 7 May 2019 to 12 May 2019.  
In addition, Mapfre paid transport costs and flights for all of Mr Os family whereas the policy 
only covers the costs of one additional person, if it thinks it is medically necessary for Mr O 
to have assistance. In this case, Mr O didnt need any such assistance with his general mobility such as fetching meals, handling luggage or processing documents. He was able to 
take care of himself. Mapfre has therefore done more than what was required of it although it 
had made mistakes in the information it gave to Mr O and had taken too long to review his 
medical report. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say Mapfre should deal with claims fairly and 
promptly and in this case, it failed to do so. However, I dont think Mapfre needs to do 
anything more as Mr O benefited from Mapfres mistake and had an additional five days in 
Thailand and all transport costs paid for his family. 
Mr O says that his wife wouldnt be able to travel without him due to her visa conditions. But 
if her flights werent covered under the terms of the policy, it would have been left to Mr O 
and his wife to cover the costs of the extra flights if it was necessary for him to travel with his 
wife due to the conditions of her visa.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Mr O complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman