DRN-3649674
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt write to her in 2001 to 
let her know that no further contributions could be made into the pension plans she held with 
them. She also complains Aviva sent information about not being able to pay contributions 
into her pension plans to an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) she hadn't been in contact 
with for years. Mrs J also complains that Aviva shouldve better explained that she had the 
option of transferring her plans into a new stakeholder plan to which she couldve 
contributed. 
What happened
Mrs J held personal pensions with Aviva. The plans had originally been set up in 1991 with 
another business  provider A - through a named IFA. Provider As personal pensions 
business was in time taken over by Aviva.
In 2001 Aviva wrote to the IFA recorded on Mrs Js account. They said that if a policyholder 
had an IFA recorded on their account, as Mrs J did, theyd sent the information to the IFA, 
and not directly to the policyholder. They said that Mrs Js personal pensions would no 
longer accept additional contributions. Mrs J said shed had no dealings with the named IFA 
since her plans had been set up. So she didnt hear about the change from her IFA. She 
said that she hadnt known the IFA was still named on her policies. She also said shed not 
been informed about the change.
Aviva said that Mrs J had made no contact with them between 2001 and 2015. 
I understand that Mrs J contacted Aviva on 27 January 2020 about reinstating her plans. 
Aviva wrote to Mrs J with the information shed requested. Their letter said that her monthly 
premium of £26.66 gross couldnt be amended. It also said that once a contribution level has 
been fixed it couldnt be increased again. The letter strongly recommended that Mrs J 
consulted her IFA when considering restarting her contributions. And said that Aviva were 
unable to give financial advice, but could answer any queries Mrs J might have. 
On 31 January 2020, Aviva wrote to Mrs J again with information about two of her plans. The 
letter stated that it wasnt possible to make any additional payments to the plans. And that: 
Any new investment would need to go into a Stakeholder policy. The letter also stated that 
if Mrs J wanted to transfer the value of her plans to another provider then Aviva strongly 
recommend that she sought independent financial advice. And repeated that they were 
unable to give financial advice, but could answer any queries she might have. 
On 16 June 2021 Avivas notes stated that Mrs J had told them she wanted to start paying 
into the plans again. And on 18 June 2021 their notes recorded that theyd sent Mrs J a 
reinstatement requirement letter for one of her three plans. Mrs J requested the same 
paperwork for all three of her plans a few days later.
On 28 June 2021 Aviva emailed Mrs J to tell her that they no longer accepted increases and 
single premiums directly into plans like hers. They explained why. And briefly noted that 
stakeholder policies were more flexible and generally cheaper. They also said that they 
hadnt written directly to their policyholders about the changes. They said that as theyd 
found that most increase in premium applications were submitted through an IFA, theyd 
written to IFAs. 
Mrs J called Aviva on 28 June 2021 to ask about restarting contributions into her plans.  
She was told this wasnt possible with her existing plans. Aviva told Mrs J that she could 
move her plans into a stakeholder pension with them which would give her the option to pay 
contributions. And confirmed that Mrs J could also transfer to another provider. 
Mrs J was unhappy that shed missed out on the opportunity to pay into her pension plans 
because she hadnt been told that her plans no longer accepted additional contributions. She 
said shed had no further dealings with her IFA after 1991. So she complained to Aviva.
Mrs Js complaint was as follows:
- Aviva didnt notify her in 2001 that her personal pensions would no longer accept 
additional contributions. 
- Aviva didnt explain that she had the option to set up a new pension plan with them. 
And then transfer her existing plans and start making contributions.
Aviva felt that the first part of Mrs Js complaint fell outside the time limits for raising a 
complaint against them. They said it had been more than six years since the event being 
complained about. And they believed it was over three years since Mrs J had reasonable 
awareness that she ought to complain. 
Aviva considered the second part of Mrs Js complaint. They didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. They issued their final response to the complaint in August 2021. They said 
theyd sent Mrs J a letter on 1 February 2020 in which theyd let her know: Any new 
investment would need to go into a Stakeholder policy. And that theyd also told her she 
could move her pension into a stakeholder plan with them during the call she had with them 
on 28 June 2021. Aviva acknowledged that they didnt provide a great deal of information 
about Mrs Js options, but said that she couldve called them to discuss their stakeholder 
plans in detail and/or checked their website for information. They said they didnt provide 
financial advice and couldnt therefore recommend what Mrs J should do. 
Unhappy with their response, Mrs J brought her complaint to this service. 
I understand that Mrs J asked to transfer out her plans on 27 July 2021. And that the transfer 
was authorised on 2 August 2021, with the funds being sent to her new provider.
In her first view, our investigator agreed with Aviva that the first part of the complaint had 
been brought more than six years since the event being complained about. But felt that Mrs 
J had only gained a reasonable awareness that she had a cause to complain in June 2021. 
As Mrs J had complained within three years of this awareness, our investigator felt that this 
service could consider both parts of the complaint. Based on the evidence, I agree with our 
investigators conclusion and have considered the merits of both parts of the complaint in my 
decision. 
Our investigator felt that the first part of the complaint shouldnt be upheld as she didnt feel 
Aviva had done anything wrong. But she felt that the second part of the complaint should be 
upheld. She considered that Aviva couldve done more to inform Mrs J about the options she 
had with her existing pension plans  including the option to consolidate her plans with them. 
So she felt Aviva should give Mrs J £200 compensation in acknowledgement of the considerable time and effort shed spent arranging the external transfer.
Aviva felt that there had been a misunderstanding. They said that when our investigator had 
stated: 
You told me that you would have stayed with Aviva had you known you could transfer 
internally. While you are happy with [your new pension provider] so far, it took a good deal of 
effort to look into other pension providers and the options available, as well as completing 
the transfer process.
shed failed to realise that there was no such thing as an internal transfer from a provider A 
pension. They said that any transfer to a new Aviva product would be treated the same as a 
transfer to any other provider, including Mrs Js new pension provider. They said the same 
due diligence, external advice, and form filling wouldve still been required. And that the 
process wouldve been no quicker or easier if Mrs J had chosen Aviva as her new provider. 
Aviva said that when theyd taken over the business from provider A, they hadn't changed 
the product, or switched it to an Aviva pension as Mrs J had thought. Instead, they had 
simply administered provider A pensions as if it was through a third-party company.
Aviva also said that they couldnt suggest that a customer should transfer to an Aviva 
product any more than they could suggest any other specific provider, as that would 
constitute advice. They said that our investigator had already confirmed that she agreed they 
couldnt give advice. And said that they could only state that the customer could transfer to 
any stakeholder pension. And that they should get advice before doing so.
Aviva didnt agree that they should pay Mrs J any compensation for the considerable time 
and effort shed spent arranging the external transfer. They said this because they felt that 
any transfer to a new Aviva product wouldve taken the same amount of consideration, 
choice and time to complete.
Aviva agreed that when Mrs J had told them she was transferring her pensions, they had 
told her she couldve transferred to Aviva. But said this was after she had explored the whole 
market, unbiased, and made her informed decision. They felt that it wouldve been biased or 
leading to have told her she couldve transferred to Aviva before then. Aviva said that where 
theyd accidentally done this in the past, it had sometimes led to customer complaints to this 
service stating that Aviva had advised them to stay with Aviva. And that sometimes this 
service had found that this had constituted advice. They said they were therefore very 
careful in what they did and didnt say to customers when they are considering exercising 
any options.
Aviva said that our investigator had confirmed that she was only upholding the complaint 
because Aviva hadnt told Mrs J before shed found a new provider that she couldve 
transferred to Aviva. They didnt think it was fair that shed recommended they paid £200 
compensation on this basis, as they felt theyd acted appropriately throughout.  And said that 
if theyd done what our investigator had suggested, and Mrs J had stayed with Aviva, they 
wouldve held themselves open to a complaint for advice, which they didnt give. 
Our investigator considered Avivas points. She issued a second view in which she didnt 
uphold the complaint. She told Mrs J shed found the actions Aviva had taken, and their 
rationale for those actions, to be reasonable.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
After our investigator issued her second view, Mrs J made the following comments for me to 
consider in my decision:
She said her initial intention had been to start an additional plan she could pay into. 
And that it was the poor customer service she felt shed received from Aviva that 
ultimately led to her transfer out. 
She said that if Aviva had handled her initial enquiry properly, they wouldve given 
her a menu of options. She didnt think that wouldve constituted advice.
I first considered Mrs Js complaint that Aviva didnt notify her in 2001 that her personal 
pensions would no longer accept additional contributions. She felt that as shed not been 
made aware in 2001 that her plans no longer accepted contributions, shed missed out on 
the opportunity to make payments elsewhere.
Mrs J said that Aviva shouldve told her in 2001 to get a new pension because the 
contributions to her existing plans couldnt be increased. Aviva said that as an execution-
only business they wouldnt contact customers recommending they change their 
investments. They also said that the changes theyd made in 2001 had been instigated by 
HMRC.
Mrs J also felt that Aviva couldnt know the old details of her plans as she felt they hadnt 
taken over provider A until 2017. Aviva said this wasn't the case. They said theyd inherited 
the complete book of provider As pensions. And that in 2017 the only change was to the 
name. They said the same terms and conditions continued to apply as always had. 
Aviva said theyd emailed Mrs J on 28 June 2021 to let her know why she could no longer 
make contributions into her plans. They said that theyd also let her know at this time that 
theyd sent a general mailing to IFAs when the changes had been made in 2001. 
Mrs J said that shed never heard of the IFA named on her policy. And that shed never had 
any contact with him. So she felt that when Aviva had written to the IFA on her record, she 
wasnt made aware of the changes. She felt Aviva shouldve written to her to check if she 
was still in contact with her IFA.
Aviva said that Mrs Js plans did have a named IFA attached to them in 2001. They provided 
this service with evidence that showed that Mrs J had a named IFA on her account from 
1991, when the policy was set up, to 2 July 2021. They said it was Mrs Js responsibility to 
remove her IFA from her plans if she was no longer in contact with him. And that theyd only 
remove an IFA from her plans if theyd received a request from Mrs J or her IFA to do so. 
Aviva also said that regardless of whether Mrs J had received the 2001 mailing, it wouldve 
made no difference to her current position as she still had the same options. 
Ive carefully considered what both parties have told this service, and the documentary 
evidence provided. 
Im satisfied that Mrs J did have a named IFA on her record. I also consider its reasonable 
for Aviva to only change the adviser details on a plan if a customer or adviser asks them to. Ive seen no evidence that anyone did ask Aviva to remove Mrs Js IFA from her record. 
Therefore Im of the view that when Aviva sent information about the 2001 changes, they 
reasonably wrote to Mrs Js named adviser. I believe its reasonable to assume that the IFA 
wouldve passed on this information. I say this because this approach prevents any risk that 
information that may need financial advice is provided through an appropriate channel.
I acknowledge that Mrs J felt that because Aviva hadnt told her about the change in 2001, 
shed missed out on making contributions elsewhere. But I dont agree. The 2001 mailing 
simply explained the changes to Mrs Js plans. It didnt encourage her to take any specific 
action  that couldve constituted advice. And from what Ive seen, Mrs J made no attempt to 
restart her contributions until 2020. So Im not persuaded that she wouldve taken any 
different action if shed known about the change in 2001.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint because Ive found no evidence that Aviva did 
anything wrong. They followed their normal practise, which I consider to be reasonable. And 
I also dont consider that Mrs J wouldve acted any differently if she had received the 2001 
mailing.
I next considered the second part of Mrs Js complaint  that Aviva didnt explain that she 
had the option to set up a new pension plan with them when she first discovered she 
couldnt restart her existing plans.
Mrs J said Aviva didnt make her aware that she could set up a new stakeholder plan with 
them  or explain what a stakeholder plan was. And they didnt let her know that she could 
transfer her older plans into it. She said she only found this out in June 2021 when she 
contacted Aviva to arrange the transfer out of her plans to a new provider. And that if shed 
known she could stay with Aviva in that way, she wouldnt have transferred. 
Aviva said that their 31 January 2020 letter to Mrs J had explained that a stakeholder plan 
was an option. And also strongly advised that Mrs J took financial advice on her decision. 
They said they couldnt proactively tell her to open a new Aviva policy as that could 
constitute advice, which they couldnt provide. They also said that if Mrs J had asked them 
for more information about their stakeholder plan, they wouldve sent it to her. But that they 
wouldnt have known she wanted further information about it, because she hadnt told them. 
From what Ive seen, Aviva acted appropriately. Ive no evidence that Mrs J ever specifically 
asked them to provide more information about their stakeholder plan. And I agree with Aviva 
that in order to ensure they didnt give Mrs J advice, she would either have to have 
confirmed her chosen approach, or ask them specifically about one of their products, before 
they could suggest it. Therefore Ive seen no evidence of poor customer service. 
I acknowledge that Mrs J feels that if Aviva had given her a full list of her options she 
wouldve stayed with them. As Ive explained, Aviva couldnt give her such a list without 
risking giving advice. Im also not persuaded that it wouldve been any less trouble for Mrs J 
to have transferred to Avivas stakeholder, rather than to her new provider. Therefore I dont 
agree that any compensation for inconvenience should be awarded here. And I dont uphold 
the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman