DRN-3847023
The complaint
Mr B complains that the fixed sum loan provided by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc for a 
timeshare product was arranged by an unauthorised intermediary. He also says that 
inadequate affordability checks were conducted.
Mr B has been assisted with his complaint by a legal representative, but I will only refer to 
anything thats been said on his behalf as though he said it for ease of reference. 
What happened
In May 2012 Mr B entered into a fixed sum loan with Mitsubishi for a timeshare holiday 
product. The loan was arranged by an intermediary company I will call C.
In March 2021 Mr B complained to Mitsubishi that the broker of the loan, C, wasnt permitted 
or authorised to arrange loans. He also said that there hadnt been any affordability checks 
to ensure the loan was sustainably affordable for him and that the sales process hadnt been 
transparent.
Mr B sent a further letter to Mitsubishi in June 2021 as he hadnt received a response 
repeating his concerns. Mitsubishi didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had forwarded Mr Bs 
concern that C hadnt been authorised to act as a credit intermediary to C for it to respond. 
Mitsubishi said in respect of affordability checks, that it had carried out credit checks and that 
together with the information provided by Mr B as to his income, had led it to be satisfied that 
the lending had been affordable. It said the loan had been sold properly to Mr B.
Mr B was unhappy with Mitsubishis response and complained to this service. He said he 
had been subjected to a pressured sale and that there had been misrepresentations made 
which had induced him to enter into the contract for the timeshare holiday product. In 
particular he said he had been told that the resorts were exclusive to members and that he 
would have no difficulties with bookings. Mr B reiterated that the credit agreement had been 
supplied by an unauthorised company and no adequate affordability checks had been 
conducted.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She said that she 
was only considering Mr Bs complaint about C being unauthorised to supply loans and 
whether there had been affordability checks. Our investigator said she wasnt able to 
consider any potential claims under section 75 and/or section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 because these needed to be raised with Mitsubishi first as these were both legal 
claims. She said this service could only consider complaints about the handling of section 75 
and/or section 140A claims once Mitsubishi had looked at them and then, if Mr B disagreed 
with the outcome, if he had complained to Mitsubishi about their handling of these claims.
Our investigator said that the supplier of the loan, C, was the parent company to the 
timeshare company and had been authorised by the Office of Fair Trading to supply credit 
agreements. She also said that no evidence had been provided which showed Mr B had 
been likely to find the loan sustainably unaffordable.
Mr B disagreed with the view of our investigator. He queried why his complaint which 
concerned fractional ownership of a timeshare product, hadnt been deferred for an 
outstanding separate court case to be decided. He also said that it wasnt a requirement for 
him to have made claims under section 75 or section 140A to Mitsubishi first before this 
service could consider those matters. He said his complaint letter to Mitsubishi had touched 
on these claims as he had queried the relationship between Mitsubishi and the supplier of 
the timeshare in order to identify whether the loan constituted an unfair relationship and was 
therefore unlawful. He said the issues of misrepresentation and unfair relationship went to 
the heart of his complaint.
In respect of the credit brokering, Mr B said there was a conflict of interest C was both the 
credit broker and the supplier of the services.  He said he had been given an incentive to 
sign the loan agreement straight away to achieve the one off today only deal. 
Mr B said that even if there had been a credit check undertaken by Mitsubishi this would not 
necessarily have gone to the issue of affordability.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at complaints, I must take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, 
guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice.
Deferring the decision on Mr Bs complaint
Mr B has queried why this decision hasnt been deferred pending the outcome of a court 
case involving fractional timeshare ownership which was the type of agreement he had 
entered into with the timeshare company. However, the issues raised by Mr Bs complaint 
arent affected by this case, and so it was appropriate for his complaint to be considered 
rather than deferred.
Sections 75 and 140A
Mr B says that this service should have considered his complaints in relation to potential 
claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 even though he 
accepts he didnt make any actual claims under those sections to Mitsubishi. He says his 
complaint letter had made reference to the potential unfairness of the relationship between 
him and the timeshare company.
But claims under section 75 (for breach of contract or misrepresentation) and section 140A 
(unfair relationships) are legal claims. Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim 
against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (provided that certain criteria set out in that 
section are met). Section 140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a 
creditor to repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it determines that 
theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and the creditor. So, it isnt my role to make 
decisions on these claims, that would be the role of a court. My remit when looking at 
complaints that involve claims under these two sections is to decide whether or not the 
business has handled the consumers claims fairly.
Looking at Mr Bs complaint letters to Mitsubishi, Im satisfied that the issues he raised were that C wasnt authorised to arrange the loan and that there had been no affordability checks 
carried out. He hasnt raised any claims in respect of section 75 and/or section 140A. If Mr B 
wishes to pursue such claims, then he will need to raise them with Mitsubishi first. If he then 
disagrees with any decisions made by Mitsubishi as to the outcome of those claims, then he 
will need to complain to Mitsubishi about its handling of them. And if he remains unhappy at 
Mitsubishis response to that complaint he may, if he chooses, bring a complaint to this 
service. Im not therefore going to consider either section 75 or section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act as part of this decision.
Unauthorised Credit broker
Mr B complained that C wasnt authorised to act as the broker of the loan. But having 
checked Im satisfied C was authorised by the Office of Fair Trading in 2012 and so was 
permitted to arrange the finance. However, Mr B also says that he is concerned as to how C, 
can be both the supplier and the credit broker as he thinks that would create a conflict of 
interest. And he says if C was broker and vendor then The Office of Fair Trading; Guidance 
for Credit Brokers and Intermediaries (OFT1388) would be engaged. Mr B says that there 
was a breach of section 2 of OFT1388 as he was given an incentive to sign the credit 
agreement on the day based on being told it was a one off available only today deal. 
I dont think its unusual or incompatible for the supplier to also be the credit broker, when, as 
here, the supplier/broker isnt acting as an agent of Mr B. (I note that in this case, it looks like 
a subsidiary of C was the supplier.) And I havent seen any evidence that suggests there 
was a conflict of interest in this instance.
Affordability checks
Mr B says Mitsubishi failed to carry out proper credit checks when lending to him. Even if I 
were to conclude that Mitsubishi or its agents didnt carry out the proper checks for 
creditworthiness and affordability when arranging a loan for Mr B, I would still need to be 
satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for him and/or that he lost out as a result, in order 
to uphold this part of his complaint. 
Ive seen that Mr B had provided Mitsubishi with information about his income and housing 
costs and it did a credit check and so was aware of any other credit accounts he had and 
how they were managed by him. It also considered his disposable income. But I havent 
seen any evidence in respect of Mr Bs financial circumstances at the time he entered into 
the fixed sum loan, so Im unable to say whether these checks would have revealed any 
financial stresses on him. I therefore havent seen anything persuasive that the checks which 
were carried out were insufficient.
So, for the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 09 May 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman