DRN-2769642
The complaint
Mrs D is complaining that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited lapsed her 
whole of life assurance policy without warning.
What happened
In December 2005 Mrs D took out a reviewable whole of life assurance policy, with a sum 
assured of £100,000. A review was carried out in November 2015 and Sun Life say they 
sent Mrs D a letter explaining that to maintain the sum assured shed need to increase her 
monthly premium from £26.40 to £37.70. The letter explained that the alternative would be to 
decrease the sum assured to £70,000. 
Sun Life say they didnt hear from Mrs D so they sent her another letter in December 2015. 
Because they didnt hear from her after this letter either, they didnt make any changes to the 
policy and it lapsed when the fund value reached zero. This happened in January 2020 and 
Sun Life wrote to Mrs D to tell her. Mrs D called Sun Life and asked them to reinstate her 
policy but they refused.
Mrs D was very unhappy her policy had lapsed. She says she didnt receive the letters Sun 
Life said they sent in November 2015 and December 2015. She thinks Sun Life should have 
called her to follow up given the significant consequences of the policy lapsing. She also 
says she thinks Sun Life should send important letters by recorded delivery so they dont get 
lost. She added that the annual statements she received didnt tell her that the policy would 
lapse  and complained that Sun Life hadnt returned the premium of £26.40 which they took 
after the policy lapsed.
When Mrs D brought her complaint to us, she said shed paid over £4,000 for the policy 
which has now lapsed so shes got nothing to show for it. She said shed like Sun Life to 
refund all the premiums shes paid, or to reinstate her policy.  
Our investigators view was that Sun Life hadnt done anything wrong. She said it looked as 
though Sun Life had sent letters to the correct address warning Mrs D that the policy would 
lapse. And as they hadnt received any returned mail, Sun Life wouldnt have known the 
letters hadnt arrived. Our investigator also explained that the terms and conditions dont 
provide for Mrs Ds policy to be reinstated after its lapsed. And she said Sun Life didnt need 
to refund Mrs Ds final payment for the policy. 
Mrs D disagreed with our investigator. She reiterated her view that important letters should 
be sent by registered post and said she thought Sun Life should have a system in place that 
means customers are contacted if they dont reply to such letters. She also said her final 
payment had been made on 24 January, two days after the policy had lapsed on 22 January 
 so she said this should be refunded.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 April, saying that although I largely agreed with our 
investigator, there were a couple of points on which I had a different view. 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive looked at the letters Sun Life say they sent in November 2015 and December 2015. 
Both letters are addressed to Mrs D at her current address. The letters explained the 
options available to Mrs D and warned her that the policy would lapse if she didnt reply. I 
appreciate Mrs D says she didnt receive the letters, and shes told us she often has 
trouble with post to her address. But I cant see shed told Sun Life that there were 
problems with her post or suggested they contacted her in a different way. 
I know Mrs D thinks the letters should have been sent by recorded delivery, or that Sun 
Life should have contacted her by phone when they didnt receive a response. And I 
agree that these actions might have prevented the policy lapse. But neither of them is a 
regulatory or contractual requirement. So I cant say Sun Life should have sent the letters 
by recorded delivery or phoned Mrs D. Im inclined to say that in posting the letters to Mrs 
D, Sun Life did what they needed to do to warn Mrs D that her policy would lapse. 
Similarly, Mrs Ds complained that the annual statements didnt tell her that the policy 
would lapse. Ive looked at the statements, and I agree. From the 2017, 2018 and 2019 
statements, I can see that the fund value held in the policy was decreasing and would 
likely run out before the 2020 statement was issued. But the statements didnt explicitly 
tell Mrs D that her policy would lapse. And I dont think its reasonable for Sun Life to 
expect Mrs D to understand that the policy would lapse. 
However, Sun Life also sent a copy of the statements to Mrs Ds financial advisors  who 
might have been expected to understand that the reducing fund value meant the policy 
would lapse. And, although I agree that the statements could have been clearer, Sun Life 
werent required to remind Mrs D in the statements that the policy would lapse.
Mrs Ds final complaint point was about the £26.40 premium she paid. She said shed 
made the payment on 24 January, two days after the policy lapsed, and shes now sent 
us a bank statement which shows this. So Im inclined to agree with Mrs D that this 
amount should be refunded to her  Sun Life shouldnt have collected her premium after 
the policy had lapsed.
Mrs D told us she wanted Sun Life to refund all her premiums as shed paid a significant 
amount into a policy but has nothing to show for it. But the premiums Mrs Ds paid have 
funded her life assurance since 2005. Fortunately no claim has been necessary  but if it 
had been, Mrs D would have been covered. So it wouldnt be fair to ask Sun Life to 
refund Mrs Ds premiums.
Alternatively, Mrs D said she wanted Sun Life to reinstate her policy. Ive thought about 
this as the letter Sun Life sent in January 2020 after the policy lapse said that it might be 
possible to reinstate Mrs Ds policy, depending on the policy terms and conditions.
I couldnt see anything in the terms and conditions that prevented Sun Life from 
reinstating Mrs Ds policy, so I put this to Sun Life. Sun Life said they should have offered 
to reinstate the policy and explained on what terms theyd be able to do this now. 
Mrs D didnt want to accept the offer  she said shed found alternative life assurance that 
suited her better. But she still felt Sun Life should have treated her better. Although Im 
inclined to say Sun Life treated Mrs D fairly before her policy lapse, I do think they should 
have treated her differently afterwards. As Ive explained, I couldnt see anything in the terms and conditions which prevented Sun Life from offering to reinstate Mrs Ds policy  
so I think they should have given Mrs D this option when she called them in January 
2020.
I dont think Mrs D would have chosen to reinstate the policy in January 2020 once she 
knew the options  now the offers been made, shes chosen alternative life assurance. 
But I think it would have saved Mrs D some trouble and upset if Sun Life had offered to 
reinstate her policy at the time. So I think they should pay £100 to compensate Mrs D for 
not giving her the option of reinstatement at the time.
Sun Life accepted my provisional decision. And although Mrs D raised a couple of questions, 
she also accepted the provisional decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any comments to change my mind, Ive nothing further to 
add. My decision remains the same, and for the same reasons.
 My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited need to pay Mrs D £126.40 - £100 for the trouble and upset caused 
by not offering to reinstate her policy, and £26.40 to return the premium Sun Life collected 
after the policy had lapsed.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman