DRN-3544680
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains about Lloyds Bank Plcs delays in opening a 
bank account.
Mr C, who is a director of S, brings the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
Mr C told us:
Lloyds initially estimated that it would take four weeks to open a business bank 
account for S, but it eventually took far longer.
Lloyds claimed to have sent emails to his fellow director, Mr S, but Mr S did not 
receive them  and Lloyds refused to send copies of the emails to him.
Lloyds incompetence prevented S from trading.
Lloyds told us:
Mr C first applied for a Lloyds bank account for S in the middle of May 2021.
It was later discovered that there were two errors in the application. The first was that 
S was described as a partnership (rather than a limited company), and the second 
was that Mr Ss email address was incorrect.
Towards the end of July 2021 it told Mr C that he would need to submit a new 
application showing the correct legal status of his business. Mr C did so.
It processed Mr Cs new application, and opened Ss account at the beginning of 
September 2021.
It accepts that it was responsible for some delays during the application process, and 
it paid S £150 to recognise the inconvenience caused. It also paid £62 for costs.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. Overall, he thought 
£150 was fair compensation for the delays Lloyds had caused  particularly as support from 
Ss directors and associated companies had enabled S to trade throughout. Our investigator 
did not make a finding as to whether £62 was appropriate for costs, but he said he would do 
so if Mr C provided more information about any costs that had been incurred.
Lloyds accepted our investigators findings, but Mr C did not. He said the underlying problem 
was that Lloyds did not provide a dedicated business manager to call upon, and that Lloyds 
had turned what should have been an easy job into hard work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to what our investigator has already said.
Lloyds accepts that it could have noticed the errors in the application form earlier  
particularly as it would be extremely unusual for a partnership to both have directors and 
have a name ending in the word limited. If Lloyds had sent Mr C the copy emails he 
requested, Mr C might have noticed that Mr Ss email address was wrong. But Lloyds was 
not responsible for the original errors, and I dont think it would be fair for me to require 
Lloyds to pay additional compensation for inconvenience. 
I am satisfied that S has had a fair opportunity to submit evidence showing that Lloyds delay 
caused it to suffer financial loss. S has not shown us such evidence, and so I make no 
award for financial loss.
I appreciate that Mr Cs primary concern is that Lloyds no longer provides businesses like his 
with a dedicated relationship manager. A dedicated manager might have picked up the 
errors earlier, but nevertheless it is for Lloyds to decide how to structure its business. I see 
nothing unfair in Lloyds decision not to provide a relationship manager for S or for Mr C. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman