DRN-4235197
The complaint
Miss H complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) irresponsibly gave 
her a credit card account she couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2018, Miss H applied for and was granted a credit card account with M&S 
with a credit limit of £5,500. There were no credit limit increases after that. 
Miss H applied to make two large balance transfers when she took out the card.
Miss H complained to M&S, saying that she shouldnt have been given the account and 
that M&S ought to have made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Since Miss H didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M&S will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Having looked at Miss Hs complaint, I have reached the same finding as our investigator. I 
dont think M&S acted unfairly when approving her application for credit. I will explain why.
Miss Hs complaint is that M&S provided her with a level of credit that was unaffordable. 
M&S has explained it carried out a credit check using the information Miss H provided on her 
application as well as information obtained from a credit reference agency. It was then able 
to work out what credit it was able to offer. 
Before granting the account, M&S looked into Miss Hs financial situation, including the way 
she was managing her existing credit. Ive seen that Miss H told M&S she had a net monthly 
income from her work of around £1,600 and was paying a mortgage. M&S used a credit 
scoring system to work out her typical monthly outgoings in terms of housing costs and other  
regular financial commitments. From the credit check it carried out, M&S also saw that Miss 
H owed just under £6,000 in credit elsewhere. Miss H has said she had a county court 
judgment against her. This doesnt appear to have shown up in M&Ss credit checks. It may 
be because it was historical and so unlikely to influence the lending decision. 
I agree with our investigator that M&S could have carried out better checks before granting 
the credit, given the relatively generous opening credit limit. Whilst Ive seen that M&S asked 
Miss H to provide details about her income in her application, I think better and more 
proportionate checks would have looked into whether this was correct rather than simply 
within the normal range based on statistical information. It could also have looked into her 
overall financial situation rather than relying just on what shed put in her application and 
what her credit report said. 
Miss H responded to our investigators finding by pointing out that her monthly outgoings 
were higher, citing that she was paying rent in addition to funding a mortgage  although she 
has told us that this arrangement was about to end as she was leaving the rental property. 
But Ive also had to keep in mind that Miss Hs main reason for taking out the card was to 
reduce her existing credit balance elsewhere and this was made known to M&S when she 
made her credit card application. She was doing this by way of taking up a promotional offer 
of 0% interest on balance transfer. In requesting balance transfers, Miss H was taking steps 
to improve her overall financial situation by reducing the cost of her debt. Of course, had 
M&S carried out better checks its possible it may have seen that Miss H had a higher level 
of outgoings at that point. But based on what Ive seen I cant say that it would necessarily 
have been likely to have changed its decision. And I dont think that giving Miss H the 
opportunity to reduce her overall level debt burden is something I can say was automatically 
unreasonable. 
Having looked carefully at all the available evidence and information, I dont think Ive seen 
enough to show or suggest that Miss Hs card agreement with M&S was unaffordable. So I 
cant reasonably conclude that M&S ought to have known she might struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that M&S acted unfairly in approving Miss H for the 
card with the limit it gave her. It follows that I dont think it needs to do anything more to put 
things right. 
I know that Miss H will be disappointed with my decision. But I would like Miss H to know 
that I have carefully considered everything she has told us. Having done so, however, I have 
not found sufficient evidence to be able to uphold this complain. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman