DRN-3031481
The complaint
Mr M said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a credit 
card in 2003.
What happened
It looks as though Mr M initially complained to Lloyds about the sale of PPI in or around 
October 2012. Lloyds issued a final response letter in respect of that complaint on 8 October 
2012. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint and said that Mr M needed to complain to this 
service within six months of the date on that letter if he didnt accept Lloydss response to the 
complaint. 
Mr M appears to have instructed his current representatives in or around October 2018 and 
a further complaint was made to Lloyds. Lloyds issued a further reply on 14 December 2018. 
It said it had already issued a final response letter about the alleged mis-sale. But Lloyds did 
offer to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of Mr Ms 
PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr M about the high level of commission and 
profit share he would pay, and that failure to disclose was unfair.
Those representing Mr M then referred the complaint to this service in January 2019. The 
grounds of complaint were that PPI had been mis-sold and that the offer Lloyds made in 
respect of commission was unfair. 
Lloyds didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mr M had referred the complaint to us too late.   
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Ms complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Lloydss payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. In respect of the mis-sale, it 
was submitted that Lloyds didnt address the arguments the representative had now raised. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter. This is set 
out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1), which can be found online in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook.
Lloyds sent its final response on 8 October 2012. Mr M had until 8 April 2013 to refer his 
complaint to us. But he didnt do this until January 2019. So, the complaint was referred over 
five years out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. 
Ive considered what has been submitted on Mr Ms behalf in respect of this. But, while I 
know this will be disappointing for him, I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply 
here. I appreciate Mr M argues that Lloyds may not have responded to all of the relevant 
complaint points now pursued on his behalf. But Im afraid making new arguments about 
essentially the same facts and dispute does not extend time. And I cant reasonably say it 
would amount to exceptional circumstances either. 
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr M with his complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment 
in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between Lloyds and Mr M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case,
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what, in all the circumstances, amounts to fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ms representative has made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint, 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act.
In summary it was argued Mr M should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was further argued that 
these things meant the policy was poor value, and so I should find that Mr M wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had he known about the level of commission. It was submitted that Mr M  
should receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds failing to disclose the high level of commission 
before Mr M purchased the policy.
So, I am mindful that: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission; and 
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.
I am not, as Mr Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above. I am satisfied it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in 
line with the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr M paid for his PPI policy -  I 
consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that Lloydss offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Im unable to consider Mr Ms complaint about how his policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman