DRN-3667241
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt reimbursed him after 
he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr A has explained that in 2019 he was looking for a loan for his business. He looked at 
several different companies and provided his details and the amount he wanted to borrow to 
an online broker that could source potential loans for him.
Soon after, Mr A was contacted by a series of individuals who said they were contacting him 
about the loans he had applied for. Mr A has said he was offered more than one loan at 
different times, seemingly from different lenders. The individuals Mr A was contacted by, 
both via linked in and other means, turned out to be scammers.
In the case of one loan Mr A believed he had been offered, he was asked to pay a deposit 
upfront in the form of retail vouchers. Another, which was for considerably more money (over 
£100,000) required him to pay numerous fees and charges to secure the loan. Hed been 
contacted about this loan via an individual on LinkedIn who said they worked for a major 
European bank. 
Mr A made the following payments to scammers from his Halifax account:
21 August 2019 £1,277.88
30 August 2019 £2,004.87
18 September 2019 £650 debit card payment (Mr A has been 
unable to recall how this payment related 
to the scam)
15 October 2019 £2,695.90 (returned to Mr As account on 
19 November 2019)
22 November 2019 £1,319.90 (return by the money transfer 
service on 25 November 2019)
26 November 2019 £1323.80
9 December 2019 £2,110
23 December 2019 £1,818.50
17 January 2020 £1,037.44
2 March 2020 £360.69
6 March 2020 £1,805.58
31 March 2020 £367.55
28 April 2020 £451.30
In November 2019 Mr A contacted Halifax to report hed been the victim of a scam. He 
explained the individual hed tried to pay had told him the payment of £2,695.90 made on 15 
October 2019 hadnt been received by them. As Mr A could see it had left his account he 
was concerned. He then discovered from the beneficiarys bank that there had been a delay 
at its end. The money had been received by the bank, but not credited to the individual. So 
although he reported the matter as fraud and arranged for the funds to be returned to him, 
the scam wasnt uncovered for him at that point because he thought the situation was a 
genuine mistake.
Mr A reported the scam again to Halifax in March 2021 after it became clear he wasnt going 
to receive the loan as expected. It explained to Mr A that it couldnt try and recall or 
otherwise refund the gift vouchers as these were legitimate purchases hed authorised but it 
could look into the other payments. Ultimately Halifax didnt feel it was liable for Mr As loss.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 August 2022. In summary I said that:
Under the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) Mr A authorised the payments to 
the scammers and as a starting point was liable for them. But taking into account the 
law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time I thought Halifax should fairly and 
reasonably have measures in place to look for and identify transactions that are 
significantly unusual, out of character or otherwise might indicate someone had been 
the victim of a scam. And, where it reasonably ought to have identified such a 
transaction, it might be appropriate for it to carry out further checks to satisfy itself its 
customer isnt at risk.
Based on Mr As general account activity, I thought the payments he made to 
scammers were in line with his general use of the account overall. So I didnt think 
Halifax reasonably ought to have intervened when he made the payments based on 
the transactions alone.
But, on 8 November 2019 Mr A contacted Halifax to tell it hed been the victim of a 
scam because the beneficiary hed intended to pay said they hadnt received the 
payment hed sent. And whilst he later thought he was mistaken about this and 
continued to pay the scammers, I think when he called Halifax it ought to have done 
more to discuss the payment with him and get to the bottom of the situation. Halifax 
hadnt been able to provide any evidence to suggest it had done this.
Had Halifax had a meaningful discussion with Mr A about the payment at this time, 
given he hadnt been told to provide a cover story I couldnt see any reason he 
wouldnt have told it what he understood to be the truth  that he was sending large 
amounts of money to someone claiming to be from a legitimate bank in order to 
obtain a business loan. And I think Halifax reasonably ought to have identified he 
was the victim of a scam.However, I also felt Mr A shared liability for his loss. I didnt think it was reasonable 
hed accepted that legitimate banks wanted him to send multiple payments of 
thousands of pounds or pay them in retail vouchers across a period of several 
months in order to obtain a loan. I also didnt think hed done enough to try and verify 
the scammers, who contacted him online, actually worked for the banks they said 
they did.
I didnt think Halifax had acted promptly in trying to retrieve the funds when Mr A 
reported the scam. But given Mr A was reporting the matter between one and two 
years after the payments were made I didnt think it was likely this delay prevented 
the successful return of the funds.
Overall, I felt Halifax ought to refund Mr A for 50% of his loss from 8 November 2019 
 when I think it reasonably ought to have identified and prevented the scam.
Mr A responded to my provisional decision. He said that:
He did carry out due diligence when making the payments because he made several 
of the transactions in branch and explained the nature of the transactions to staff he 
spoke to there, providing paperwork from the bank he believed he was dealing with. 
He said he was told by staff they had no way of knowing if the transactions were 
fraudulent.
He tried to call the bank he thought he was dealing with several times and also wrote 
to them but received no response. 
He asked the scammer to video call with him which they did. Hes said the person he 
video called with matched the LinkedIn profile they contacted him under which 
reassured him.
He felt as an inexperienced person it was very difficult for him to try and distinguish 
whether or not he was the victim of a scam.
He believed paying a bank upfront for a loan in order to cover insurance costs was 
common practice and provided a link to the website of a broker in Switzerland he felt 
supported this.
Halifax didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr A has said, and I have considered everything 
again. But I havent reached a different conclusion to the one set out in my provisional 
decision. I wont repeat everything I said in the provisional decision (that Ive summarised 
above). But I would like to address his ongoing concerns and hopefully clarify why Ive 
reached the conclusion I have.
It seems odd that Mr A hasnt previously mentioned at any point that he spoke to branch 
staff about the payments he was making to scammers. And Ive checked the records Halifax 
has provided and according to these all the payments made prior to 8 November 2019, when 
Ive agreed Halifax ought to have intervened and prevented the scam, were carried out 
online, not in branch. It may be that Mr A did carry out some transactions in branch after this 
date, but Ive already said I think Halifax ought to have stopped the scam by then. Overall I dont feel I have seen sufficient evidence based on Mr As recent testimony that 
Halifax couldve stopped the scam sooner than the call in which Mr A suggests hed been 
the victim of fraud. 
Mr A has said he carried out due diligence because he tried to contact the bank he thought 
he was dealing with directly and received no responses to any contact. In my view, this 
ought to have concerned Mr A as the bank he thought he was dealing with didnt respond to 
confirm to him the payments or the individual he was speaking to were genuine. 
Hes said a video call with the scammer reassured him, but its not clear to me why this 
would be the case. He hadnt verified who this person was or who they worked for. This 
video call only seems to have confirmed they appeared to be the same person as the person 
in the LinkedIn profile. And I dont think this alone, when considered alongside the other 
unusual elements of what they were asking Mr A to do, ought to have reassured him.
Mr A has said that paying insurance up front directly to a bank is common practice in 
Europe. But when contacted by a stranger online who asked him to start paying for the loan 
in retail vouchers, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr A to try and verify things further 
before proceeding. Especially since hes said he received no response from the bank they 
said they worked for. An online search wouldve highlighted to Mr A that this is a known 
scam in the UK. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) provides more detail about how this 
scam tends to operate, and describes the exact situation Mr A found himself in. 
Id also add that the link Mr A has sent me which he feels evidences paying up front large 
amounts for a loan is common practice in other countries, doesnt appear to demonstrate 
this. But in any event, even if there are some banks in other countries that require this, I 
dont think this means Mr A didnt have to carry out any checks before starting to send large 
amounts of money to the scammers. Id also note that he sent multiple payments to the 
scammers across a long period by bank transfer, using money transfer services and in retail 
vouchers. I dont think it was reasonable he accepted this was how a legitimate bank would 
operate.
I do understand it can be initially difficult to try and uncover certain scams and I have taken 
into account here that Mr A may well be inexperienced in these matters. Thats why Ive held 
him to the standard of what a reasonable person might do in the circumstances. But overall, 
although I have considered his most recent comments carefully, I remain of the opinion that 
he shares liability for his loss from the point Halifax reasonable couldve prevented the scam.
Redress
Halifax should refund Mr A £4,637.43  50% of the payments he made after his call on 
8 November 2019 and after Halifax reasonably ought to have uncovered the scam.It appears these payments were made from Mr As current account and used his overdraft 
for which he was charged a daily fee. According to the account terms and conditions this 
daily fee relates to the account balance. Halifax should restructure the account as if 50% of 
each payment after 8 November 2012 wasnt made and refund him any amount he has 
overpaid in fees.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr A the 
redress outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman