DRN-1447438
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited caused damage to a kitchen unit in his home 
following a claim under his home emergency policy.
HomeServe Membership Limited has responded to the complaint on behalf of the insurer, 
Aviva Insurance Limited. I will refer to both HomeServe Membership Limited and Aviva 
Insurance Limited as "Aviva", to keep things simple. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mr W contacted Aviva to make a claim for a leaking kitchen tap. Aviva sent out 
an engineer who offered to replace the tap, but Mr W decided to purchase a new tap and 
arranged for the engineer to return a few days later to fit it. 
Avivas engineer returned a few days later to fit Mr Ws new tap. On arrival the engineer 
identified some parts were missing so an appointment was arranged for the next day to 
complete the job. 
On 19 May, Mr W contacted Aviva to say a pipe under the kitchen sink which the engineer 
had fitted was leaking. So Aviva sent an engineer to the property to assess what had 
happened. The engineer reported there wasnt a leak, but replaced the pipe anyway. Mr W 
said this stopped the leak and damage from occuring to his kitchen unit. 
Because Mr W said the leak had caused damage to the base unit, Aviva sent a surveyor to 
assess the damage and issue a report. This report said the base unit was heavily swollen 
and that there was a leak, but the yellow flooring near the affected area suggests this 
had been going on for a period of time. And so the report said the damage wasnt consistent 
with the details Mr W reported. 
Based on the findings of this report, Aviva said it wasnt liable for the damage and therefore 
declined to pay for any costs related to replacing the damaged unit. 
Mr W disputed this. He said the issue wasnt the floor, just the base unit, which was still 
swollen. He said water was dripping into the base unit for nearly three weeks because he 
didn't think the pipes had been connected properly. And after the engineer changed the pipe, 
the base unit had now dried out  indicating it wasnt an ongoing issue. 
Our investigator carefully considered everything and upheld the complaint. She said based 
on the invoice of the tap that Mr W chose, it came with a rigid tail which is normally 
connected underneath the sink to connect the tap to the water supply. She said the 
surveyors report confirmed there was a leak and so on balance, she felt the installation of 
the rigid tail more likely than not caused the leak, and the damage claimed for was 
consistent with the amount of time that had passed. So she recommended Aviva pays to 
replace the damaged unit. 
Aviva didn't agree with what our investigator said. It said a more substantial leak would've 
had to have occurred given the damage present. It disagreed the damage occurred between the engineer attending to fit the tap, to Mr W calling to report the leak. As it didn't think it 
caused the leak or damage, Aviva asked for a final decision. So the case has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator's view for broadly similar reasons. I'll now explain why. 
Mr W said the leak occurred because he thinks the pipes werent connected properly. Aviva 
said the tap Mr W ordered came with rigid tails and a rigid tail does the same job as the flexi 
pipe in connecting the tap to the water supply. It said the job notes doesnt confirm if the 
engineer replaced these whilst replacing the tap, but upon speaking to one of its experts, 
they said engineers do normally replace the rigid tail when replacing the tap. Based on this, 
its more likely than not that the pipe underneath the sink was replaced by Avivas engineer 
when fitting the kitchen tap. 
Mr W contacted Aviva on 19 May 2019 to say following the repair, the pipe underneath the 
kitchen sink was leaking. Aviva sent an engineer who contacted the claims department to 
advise there wasnt a leak - just condensation. Aviva confirmed that although the engineer 
didnt think the pipe was leaking, he replaced it anyway. 
Aviva sent a surveyor to Mr W's home to assess the damage.The surveyors confirmed there 
was a leak, but said it was from a long term issue. The report says There does appear to be 
a leak under the sink, but this appears to have been on going for a period of time and longer 
than the issue reported to homeserve. The surveyor has noted the fixings to the sink base 
unit are heavily rusted and the corner piece is water damaged and the base unit is heavily 
swollen. The floor tiles have yellowed and the damage seen will not have occurred over the 
last 2-3 weeks.
The photos show the cupboard is in generally good condition except for the areas 
highlighted by the report. But I note these areas are close to the source of the leak and 
consistent with the damage Mr W has claimed for. Mr W has also confirmed hes not 
claiming for the flooring  just the kitchen unit. 
Aviva said the damage is not related to the work done by the engineer. But on balance, Im 
more persuaded the evidence suggests the pipe underneath the sink was replaced by 
Avivas engineer when he replaced the kitchen tap.  If the leak was ongoing for a period of 
time, its likely it wouldve been present during the first engineers visit. But Aviva has 
confirmed the engineer wouldnt have noticed a leak in the cupboard when attending during 
the first few visits as there wasnt a leak present.
So, I'm satisfied it's more likely than not that there wasn't a leak causing damage to the 
kitchen unit prior to the first engineer attending to replace the tap. Another engineer then 
returned later to replace a part that Mr W said had been installed incorrectly that appeared to 
stop the leak. Therefore, I'm more persuaded on balance that damage was caused to the 
kitchen unit between the time the tap was installed, to Mr W reporting the damage. 
Putting things right
The report Aviva had completed says that Aviva isn't liable. But I don't agree here based on 
the information I've seen. And so, for the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and 
require Aviva to pay Mr W the costs of replacing the damaged kitchen unit. The surveyors report says the damaged kitchen unit will now require replacement as it cannot be repaired. 
And so on balance, I think this outcome is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I now require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr W the costs to replace the damaged kitchen unit.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman