DRN-3202554
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not respond to letters which she had sent 
them.  
What happened
Ms S made a separate complaint to Barclays, which they responded and sent a final 
response letter to Ms S on 13 November 2018. Ms S sent further letters to Barclays dated 10 
November 2018, 31 August 2019, and 30 September 2019, by recorded delivery, but 
Barclays did not respond to these letters. In the letter dated 10 November 2018, Ms S 
requested that Barclays remove her telephone number from their system. 
Ms S complained to Barclays. As part of this complaint she said that Barclays sent her a 
letter dated on 2 October 2019, when they shouldnt have done as this gave her cause for 
concern. She said the information they requested in the letter was already previously 
provided to Barclays by herself.
Barclays upheld Ms Ss complaint. Regarding the letter they sent Ms S on 2 October, they 
said that although this caused Ms S concern, they had to write to her as the signed letter that 
she had sent showed a different name to the name on the account and she had only 
provided a sort code and no account numbers. This meant that when they tried to search for 
Ms S on their systems using her name and address provided on the letter, no account 
records were found. So as a result, they needed to write to her.
Barclays said that as her letters dated 10 November 2018, 31 August 2019 and 30 
September 2019 had a complaint reference on them, then they should have been added to 
her file. They said they accept that the letters were sent by recorded delivery and were 
received, but they were unable to locate the letters prior to Ms S sending them again with 
her new complaint. Barclays apologised for the lapse in service resulting in her having to 
chase them for a reply. As an apology to not replying to some of her letters, Barclays say 
they credited £75 to her account.
Barclays said in response to a letter which Ms S sent them on 3 December, they wrote to her 
on 10 December 2018, to explain that they had exhausted their complaints procedure on 
that particular complaint point.
Ms S brought her complaint to our service. She said Barclays had failed to address her 
complaint satisfactorily in their letter dated 13 November 2018. She also said that the £75 
that Barclays had paid her for not replying to her letters was insufficient to address their 
negligence. 
Our investigator explained to Ms S that the issues raised from the final response letter dated 
13 November 2018 were outside of our jurisdiction, due to time limits expiring, which Ms S 
disagreed. A separate Ombudsman made a ruling that the complaint points addressed in the 
letter dated 13 November 2018 were outside of our jurisdiction, due to time limits expiring, so 
our investigator issued his view of the complaint based on the administrative issues that 
were addressed by Barclays in their final response letter dated 31 October 2019.
Our investigator agreed that Barclays were right to write to Ms S on 2 October 2019 as the 
information she had provided wasnt sufficient to locate her accounts. But our investigator 
also felt that the £75 Barclays credited to Ms Ss account for not responding to her letters 
was not enough. He said that Barclays should pay Ms S a further £100 to reflect the 
inconvenience of Barclays not responding to her. The complaint was referred to an 
Ombudsman as Ms S thought the compensation proposed was insulting. Ms S also 
reiterated complaint points which were addressed by Barclays in their final response letter, 
which were outside of our jurisdiction to consider the merits of.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make it clear to Ms S that Im only able to consider the merits of her complaint which 
Barclays addressed in the 31 October 2019 final response letter. A separate Ombudsman 
has already made a ruling that we cannot look into the merits of her complaint which 
Barclays addressed in their 13 November 2018 final response letter. 
Ive considered what Ms S has said about how she didnt want Barclays to write to her on 2 
October 2019. But Im not persuaded that Barclays were able to locate her accounts without 
doing so. I know this caused Ms S a lot of concern, however, as she had provided only the 
sort code and had signed her letter differently to the name on her account, then Im satisfied 
that Barclays did nothing wrong here when they couldnt locate Ms Ss accounts on their 
system.
But I am persuaded that Barclays didnt treat Ms S fairly when she wrote to Barclays and 
they didnt respond to a number of her letters. And she had sent the letters via recorded 
delivery. So it would have caused Ms S distress knowing that Barclays had received her 
letters but they didnt respond. 
In addition, Ms S had asked Barclays in her November 2018 letter to remove her telephone 
number from their records. As Barclays didnt action this until they responded to her 
complaint in October 2019, then Ms Ss instructions werent carried out for a prolonged 
period of time.
So, what I would expect Barclays to do here, is apologise for not responding to her letters, 
explain what had happened and to recognise the impact of their poor customer service, they 
should pay Ms S adequate compensation. Im satisfied that Barclays have apologised, 
explained that the letters should have been assigned to her record and have acknowledged 
that they received the letters by recorded delivery. But Im not satisfied that the £75 they 
credited to her account recognises the impact that the poor customer service had on her 
here.
Im persuaded that the additional compensation that our investigator has recommended - 
£100  is a fairer reflection for the impact of Barclays not responding to the letters would 
have had on Ms S. I say this as it was nearly a year since she received a response to her 
November 2018 letter. And this was a result of Ms S making a complaint. Had she not done 
so, it is unlikely that she would have had a response to her letters. So I think that because a 
long time has passed between Ms S writing her letters and receiving a response from 
Barclays, that this would have been distressing for Ms S  especially at a time that Barclays 
were aware she was having personal issues. So Ill be asking Barclays to put things right for 
Ms S.
Putting things rightOur investigator has suggested that Barclays pay Ms S a further £100 which I think is fair in 
the circumstances as it would bring the total payment for distress and inconvenience to 
£175. Im persuaded this reflects the impact on Ms S for Barclays not responding to her 
letters and not removing her telephone number from their records when she instructed them 
to. 
  
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Ms S a further £100 for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman