DRN-4380166
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the advice she received from Health and Protection Solutions 
Limited, trading as Towergate Health and Protection (Towergate) in relation to her private 
medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, I understand that Mrs G renewed her private medical insurance 
with the same insurer for many years. In December 2020, she asked Towergate about 
less expensive alternatives to her renewal quote of £451.14 a month. Towergate 
recommended a different policy with the same insurer which was less expensive at 
£291.56 a month. Mrs G proceeded with the recommendation at renewal on                   
1 January 2021.     
Mrs G had some health problems and complications following surgery. She wasnt happy 
about the cover she had and the treatment she received. Shortly after renewal in 
January 2023 she complained to Towergate about the advice she received in    
December 2020. Mrs G had discovered that if she reverted to her previous type of 
membership, the 25% discount wasnt available to her. 
Mrs G says that Towergate didnt tell her that if she chose the less expensive option at 
renewal in January 2021, she would lose her 25% discount and wouldnt be able to get it 
back. She says that she wouldnt have downgraded her membership in January 2021 if 
shed known that shed lose the discount. 
In response to Mrs Gs complaint, Towergate said that the insurer had told it about the 
loss of future discount, but it could find no evidence that it had told Mrs G about that. 
Towergate offered Mrs G compensation of £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs G didnt 
think that was sufficient and pursued her complaint. She wants Towergate to reinstate 
her 25% discount so that she can upgrade her membership with the insurer.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that the recommendation 
Towergate made in December 2020 was based on Mrs Gs demands and needs. The 
investigator thought that the compensation offered by Towergate was fair and 
reasonable. He thought that Mrs G would have decided to change to the lower cost 
policy even if shed been told about losing the 25% discount. That was because she was 
unhappy with the original 2021 renewal quote, even after the 25% discount had been 
applied. 
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman consider her 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Towergate gave Mrs G advice about her private medical insurance, so it was obliged 
to make sure that its recommendation was suitable for her demands and needs.
Based on what Ive seen, at the time of discussions in December 2020, Mrs G was 
concerned about price and affordability. She also wanted to remain with the insurer 
she was with in order to avoid exclusions in cover. Towergate provided Mrs G with a 
number of quotes for reduced cover with the same insurer and various levels of 
excess. Mrs G chose the highest excess and the lowest premium offered to her.
Towergate sent Mrs G the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) for both 
her original cover and the less expensive cover, so that she could compare the two. 
But it doesnt have any evidence to show that it passed on the information provided 
by the insurer to the effect that if Mrs G reduced her cover, she would lose her 25% 
discount. I think that was material information that Towergate should have given to  
Mrs G to enable her to make an informed choice.
When mistakes like this happen, we look at the effect of the mistake on the 
individual. Ive given this matter careful consideration. On balance, Im not persuaded 
that Mrs G would have acted differently if Towergate had told her that shed lose the 
25% discount. Mrs G was dissatisfied with her original renewal quote for the policy 
year starting in 2021, which included the 25% discount. She chose the less 
expensive premium and I think shed have done that even if Towergate had told her 
about losing the discount. At that stage, Mrs G had no misgivings about the reduced 
cover.
I think that Mrs G was disappointed to discover that she was no longer eligible for the 
discount. I think that the compensation of £50 Towergate has offered is fair and 
reasonable in this case. 
I can quite understand why Mrs G would now like to revert to the cover she had 
originally but Im afraid theres no basis on which I can fairly direct Towergate to meet 
the cost of the loss of discount in this case. I appreciate thats disappointing for      
Mrs G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
If Mrs G wishes to accept the offer Towergate made previously, she should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023. Louise Povey
Ombudsman