DRN-2846265
The complaint
Mr L has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) acted irresponsibly by accepting his 
loan application because he couldnt afford the repayments.
 
What happened
Mr L approached TFS for a loan through an intermediary. He gave the purpose of the loan 
as debt consolidation.
TFS provided Mr L with a loan for £5,000 in January 2015. It was repayable over 36 months. 
The monthly repayments were £242 and the loans Annual Percentage Rate (APR) was 
48.9%  which, when applied to the amount borrowed over the 36-month term, amounted to 
£3,712 in total. As a result, the total amount payable was £8,712. The loan was secured by 
way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement. The guarantor was Mr Ls father.
Mr L was unable to pay the first repayment on time  due at the start of March 2015  and 
then only managed to pay £200 that month. He was also unable to pay his second 
repayment on time but brought his account up to date within ten days of the payment falling 
due. Mr L made no further payments to the loan and TFS issued a notice of default in July 
2015. TFS turned to Mr Ls guarantor to repay the loan. When the guarantor also couldnt 
pay, TFS took Mr L and his guarantor to court and obtained a judgment ordering both Mr L 
and his guarantor to repay the debt. 
Mr L complains TFS didnt do enough to check his finances and personal situation to make 
sure he was able to repay the loan. He thinks had TFS done more, it would have seen that 
his income was commission based, not guaranteed and that it shouldnt have lent to him. So, 
he says the loan was mis-sold.
Mr L also complains that TFS was unsympathetic when he couldnt manage the monthly 
payments and didnt signpost him to any sources of help or advice. And he points to TFS 
getting a court order against his father to secure the debt as the cause of their relationship 
breakdown.
Mr Ls guarantor had joined this complaint to begin with but has since referred his own 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think TFS did enough to check 
that Mr L could repay the loan sustainably. But he found that he didnt have enough 
evidence to say TFS should not have provided Mr L with the loan. And so he didnt think 
there was anything the lender needed to do.  
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators assessment, and so the complaint was passed to 
me to make a decision about the matter. Ive not seen that the court examined the decision 
to lend to Mr L and so I see no reason not to consider this complaint. I issued a provisional 
decision explaining why I thought the complaint should be upheld. An extract from my 
provisional findings is set out below:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. And Ive 
considered this approach when deciding Mr Ls complaint.
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr L irresponsibly.
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L was in a 
position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate 
checks have shown at the time?
Did TFS lend to Mr L responsibly?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way?

Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks? 
TFS asked Mr L for information about his income and expenditure and it obtained a credit 
report. Mr L applied via a credit intermediary, who in turn forwarded his application to TFS 
along with his last three months of payslips. 
As a side note, Im aware that the name of the credit intermediary Mr L used is named on the 
pre-contract credit information document. And I am surprised that TFS accepted Mr Ls 
application when the intermediary wasnt listed on the FCA register at the time. After all, the 
intermediary needed permission or interim permission to carry out consumer credit activities 
after the FCA took over the regulation of consumer credit in 2014. I dont think its 
unreasonable that recognising this should have put TFS on notice that Mr Ls application 
may have required closer scrutiny  as a minimum. 
TFS says that it performs a number of checks (as described above) to confirm the 
information provided by an applicant. It thinks that the checks it carried out before it agreed 
to lend to Mr L were reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan was affordable for him. 
But the extent to which a business checks were reasonable and proportionate isnt 
determined simply by the types of checks it carried out. A business also needs to respond 
appropriately to the information it gathers from its checks when assessing a customers 
application for lending.
Ive listened to the call between TFS and Mr L during which his application was discussed. 
TFS agent acknowledged receipt of his payslips and used an average take home pay figure 
across the three months without any further interrogation. The agent arrived at a take home 
pay of £1,659.40  significantly more than the £1,014 Mr L declared on his application. His 
payslips show the following:
Payslip date Basic Commission Bonus Net Pay
Oct-14  £    833.33  £    505.25  £            -    
£1,420.12 
Nov-14  £    833.33  £ 2,350.24  £    500.00  
£2,543.73 
Dec-14  £    833.33  £    449.21  £            -    
£1,014.36 The December payslip (which was the 9th payslip of the relevant financial year) showed a 
year to date take home pay figure of £21,651.64 (inclusive of a tax rebate in October), which 
averages out at £2,405 since April that year. So, two of the three payslips showed 
significantly reduced and below average take home pay. Indeed, the December payslip also 
shows a NMW (national minimum wage) top up. Mr Ls commission earnings that month 
had fallen to a level that meant his wage would have dropped below the national minimum 
wage if unadjusted. 
In his application form, Mr L explained that his previous credit problems were due to 
reduced hits at work making me fall behind on payments. He also responded to the 
question on why he was now able to afford the proposed loan by saying: I am able to pay 
using my salary as my hours are now back to normal and have been consistently good. His 
payslips, in my opinion, suggested otherwise. And I cant see that TFS interrogated the 
inconsistency between his statement and payslips  nor did TFS question the reasons 
behind the recent fluctuations in Mr Ls pay. In other words, they went unchecked.
The call between TFS and Mr L went on to discuss his income and expenditure. Mr L 
explained that his monthly travel expenses were only £30 because he had use of a company 
car and only paid for fuel for non-business journeys. Mr L was employed by a large motor 
dealership group. I understand the use of a company car was a taxable benefit in kind, 
particularly when an employee enjoyed use of the car beyond business purposes. So, I 
wouldve expected to see some reference to a company car on his payslips. There isnt. And 
yet TFS didnt question why.
The information gathered by TFS from its credit search shows that Mr L didnt have any 
active accounts not in default  only 3 settled and 13 defaulted (with unpaid balances):
Type Start Date Default Date Default 
balance  Current 
balance 
Home Credit 17/03/2011 25/07/2011 £750 £750
Communications 11/09/2012 22/05/2013 £44 £44
Credit Card/Store Card 09/05/2007 25/02/2010 £964 £964
Pay Day loans 14/02/2012 06/03/2012 £459 £489
Pay Day loans 20/07/2012 27/07/2012 £338 £375
Current Accounts 07/06/2007 05/02/2010 £967 £967
Communications 31/03/2010 12/10/2010 £690 £690
Communications 27/05/2010 03/12/2010 £467 £467
Communications 08/06/2010 10/12/2010 £318 £318
Current Accounts 19/01/2010 10/10/2012 £2,340 £2,340
Unsecured Loan 27/07/2012 24/09/2012 £217 £217
Mail Order 05/10/2012 23/05/2013 £224 £224
£7,778 £7,845
TFS makes much of Mr Ls defaults being a historic problem, with some dating back more 
than four years prior to his application. Those debts were not generally increasing  except 
for two defaulted pay day loans which increased by £67 over 3 years. Nor were they 
decreasing and so I think its safe to say they were not attracting further interest. It also 
shows Mr L hadnt managed to pay off the debts or enter into arrangements to do so. But 
TFS didnt question why that was or what had changed by January 2015, prompting Mr Ls 
decision to borrow £5,000 at 48.9% APR over 36 months to refinance part of these debts. 
And if Mr L was intending to consolidate some of his defaulted debts, I would question 
whether TFS were acting in Mr Ls interest by lending for that purpose. However, I dont find of the apparent purpose of Mr Ls loan to consolidate his debts 
plausible and I think an experienced lender ought to have found the same. This was critical 
to the decision to lend and not merely a historic problem. I say this because TFS needed to 
include a monthly payment towards these debts in its income and expenditure assessment 
(which would clear these debts over a reasonable time). But because TFS failed to 
interrogate the plausibility of Mr L consolidating his debts, it also failed to include such an 
amount in its assessment. 
In summary, I dont think the checks TFS carried out were reasonable or proportionate. I find 
that there were significant shortcomings in the way it responded to the information it 
gathered as part of the checks it carried out to satisfy itself that Mr L, given his 
circumstances at the time, could repay the loan in question in a sustainable way. 
Did TFS lend to Mr L responsibly?
From the information TFS gathered as part of its affordability assessment, I can see that 
Mr L declared his outgoings were made up of:
Rent £275.00
Council Tax £50.00
Housekeep £50.00
Electricity £50.00
Gas £50.00
Phones £25.00
TV £6.00
Transport £30.00
Contents 
Insurance £5.00
Cigarettes £80.00
£621.00
In addition to his declared expenditure, TFS needed to allow for payment towards his 
defaulted debts as Ive explained above. I think to make a fair assessment of whether Mr L 
was able to sustainably repay the new loan repayments, TFS needed to make reasonable 
assumptions about repaying his defaulted debts within a reasonable period. For example, by 
working out the required payment that would see those debts repaid within the timeframe 
consistent with the typical time it would take to repay a personal loan for the total amount. In 
this case, it means that if Mr L were to repay the £7,845 in defaulted debts within three to 
four years, he wouldve needed to pay between £164 and £218 a month.
The monthly repayments on the TFS loan were £242 and brought Mr Ls non-discretionary 
spending  albeit largely unchecked  and credit repayments to a combined total of £1,027 a 
month (£621 +£164+£242). But he only earnt £1,014 in December 2014. Much of Mr Ls 
income was derived from commission, not guaranteed and it had varied considerably over 
the three months before TFS granted the loan. His payslips showed that his basic pay was 
significantly lower than the amount he was committed to spend each month.   
TFS had to satisfy itself that Mr L would be able repay the loan sustainably. CONC 5.3.1G(6) 
explains:
For the purposes of CONC, sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
i. the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
ii. without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
 unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
In my view, sustainability in the context of Mr L circumstances required involved budgeting 
very carefully in well paid months to meet his commitments in poorly paid months. But his 
credit file doesnt suggest that he was following that discipline. Indeed, Mr L told TFS he paid 
his partner a one-off payment to cover all his bills and rent each month because she was 
better organised. And he points to reduced hits at work making me fall behind on payments 
as the cause of his existing credit problems. I also find it telling that Mr L was looking to 
borrow new funds following a run of three months significantly reduced pay. 
I think TFS ought reasonably to have realised that Mr L was heavily reliant on unguaranteed 
commission to meet his non-discretionary spending and credit repayments. I think TFS 
ought to have recognised that his commission-based income led him into financial difficulties 
and that he was most likely borrowing as a result of a shortfall in his commission earnings. 
And I also think TFS ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr L would 
be able to sustainably repay his loan. So it should have concluded that it was not appropriate 
to lend to him.
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think TFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr L in some other way. But I do think TFS should have refused to lend to Mr L, so I am 
upholding his complaint about the loan.
Responses to My Provisional Decision
Mr L acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but he didnt have anything to add.
TFS disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, it does not agree the loan should 
have been refused and that it had an accurate understanding of Mr Ls financial 
circumstances, enough to deem the loan to be affordable for the term of the loan.
TFS asked that I reconsider my findings on the treatment of commission when assessing 
Mr Ls income.  It argues the use of year to date figures where an income includes a 
consistent bonus is not unfair and points out that Mr L did not disagree with the income 
figure used. It believes the type of employment should be taken into consideration as it is 
very common for a sales adviser to be paid a basic salary and a consistent bonus. And 
continues by suggesting that if my view reflected standard practice for lenders, then most of 
the UKs lending would be deemed unaffordable.
TFS says it had no reason to doubt the information provided by Mr L, if the employer was not 
including a benefit in kind on his payslip, then maybe it should be reported to HMRC.Turning to Mr Ls defaulted debt, it says he had disposable income should the lenders of the 
defaulted debt request token payments  clearly, they hadnt. It argues the adverse credit 
would only last six years and as most of the defaults were historic, it didnt believe Mr L 
would have been required to repay this debt. It suggests it was, therefore, a moral issue if 
Mr L wanted to repay the money he borrowed. 
TFS also pointed out that the credit intermediary named on the pre-contract credit 
information document was a trading style of an intermediary registered with interim 
permission to carry out consumer credit activities.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending on our website. Having taken this into account along with everything else I need to 
consider, including the responses to my provisional decision, my decision remains 
unchanged and Im upholding this complaint.
TFS suggests I reconsider my findings on the treatment of commission when assessing 
Mr Ls income. It considers the use of year to date figures where an income includes a 
consistent bonus is not unfair. 
Im not necessarily in disagreement. However, I note that this wasnt the approach TFS took 
when it assessed Mr Ls income. It looked at an average of his last three months earnings 
instead. But what is critical in Mr Ls circumstances, is that his commission earnings were 
inconsistent and varied significantly over the preceding three months.
Ive not considered Mr Ls commission earnings in isolation. At the time of applying for the 
loan, Mr L presented with a portfolio of defaulted debts, which by his own admission, had 
resulted from him not earning the level of commission he needed to sustain their repayment. 
His pay had fallen well below his year to date average monthly earnings in two of the three 
months before he applied for the loan. In considering all these circumstances, I dont think it 
was reasonable to take account of his unguaranteed commission income in assessing 
whether Mr L would be able repay the loan sustainably.
TFS says it had no reason to doubt the information provided by Mr L about his travel 
expenses and if his employer was not including a benefit in kind on his payslip, then maybe 
it should be reported to HMRC. I disagree. The fact Mr L said he had use of a company car 
and the fact his payslip did not show as such, was every reason to doubt the information he 
had given.
Turning to Mr Ls defaulted debt, TFS disbelieves Mr L would have been required to repay 
this debt and suggests it was a moral issue if he wanted to do so. Im a little surprised by 
this, given that it couldnt be further removed from the position TFS took in accepting Mr Ls 
intentions to use the TFS loan funds to repay some of his defaulted debts. And by doing so, 
ultimately passing liability for them on to his guarantor  when it believes he wouldnt have 
been required to repay them at all. I dont consider it a moral issue but more a question of 
whether the lender acted with integrity or in the interest of its customer by accepting such a 
plan. 
But for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I do not find Mr Ls intentions to use 
the TFS loan funds to consolidate his defaulted debts plausible. And I still think TFS needed 
to make reasonable assumptions about repaying his defaulted debts over a reasonable period as part of its affordability assessment, again for the reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. I dont think it reasonable to base those assumptions on token payments which 
merely prevent a debt becoming statute barred and fail to repay a debt within a reasonable 
period. 
TFS pointed out that the credit intermediary named on the pre-contract credit information 
document was a trading style of an intermediary registered with interim permission to carry 
out consumer credit activities. I have now traced the parent business behind the 
intermediary named and I accept it was registered with interim permission.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr L in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr L 
was given the loan and he used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo whats 
already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr L back in the position he would be in if he 
hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
Instead, I must consider another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans set out on our 
website includes how to put things right. It explains that if a borrower has a complaint upheld 
and theres still an outstanding balance on the credit, well usually tell the lender to remove 
all the interest and charges applied from the start. But in this case, Mr Ls guarantor fully 
repaid the loan including any outstanding charges and unpaid interest. Mr L had only made 
two payments towards the loan, which totalled much less than the amount he borrowed. So, 
given Mr L has had the benefit of the money he borrowed, Im not persuaded its fair to tell 
TFS to refund those payments or pay any cash award.
We also explain on our website that we would likely tell TFS to make sure Mr Ls credit file 
doesnt have any adverse information recorded on it as a result of the loan. But its more 
complicated in this case. This is because TFS secured a judgment debt (CCJ) against Mr L 
and his guarantor in November 2015  over five and a half years ago. I expect the record of 
the judgment to stop appearing on Mr Ls credit file after its sixth anniversary. I think thats 
likely to happen sooner than the time it would take TFS to get the judgment set aside, if at all 
possible. So, I wont direct TFS to take such action. But I think TFS should arrange for any 
remaining adverse information recorded about this loan to be removed from Mr Ls credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to 
put things right for Mr L in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman