DRN-3258539
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) irresponsibly granted him a loan 
he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2014, Mr S took receipt of a car that he financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage. Mr S was required to make 53 monthly repayments of £261.29 
with a final payment of £436.29 after which Mr S would take ownership of the car. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £14,284.66.
Mr S says that Advantage didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Advantage didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included verifying Mr Ss income and reviewing his 
credit file.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Advantage didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr S didnt agree and said the business had used too high a salary when calculating 
affordability and that the loan was never affordable for him as the disposable income he was 
left with would not have been sufficient.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Advantage didnt ask Mr S about his expenditure. Although it did complete a credit check, 
this wont have indicated what Mr Ss regular living expenses were. Without knowing what 
Mr Ss regular committed expenditure was Advantage wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete 
proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Mr S would have told Advantage had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Advantage needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ss 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that     
Mr Ss regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £780. In calculating 
this figure, Ive included payments to parents for rent, a loan, food, transport, credit cards, 
and subscriptions. Advantage used an income of £1,300 per month on the basis that theyd 
been told Mr Ss salary was £16,000 per year. The wage slip theyd been presented with 
suggested his earning were £1,205. Mr Ss income clearly fluctuated and having reviewed 
his bank statements I think the average figure was closer to £1,300 than to £1,205. So, 
taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to Mr S 
as he had a disposable income somewhere between £164 and £259 after the loan and 
expenditure was taken into account. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Advantage 
acted unfairly in approving the finance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman