DRN-2679305
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) have unfairly refused to pay her claim
under her pet policy.
 What happened
Ms R has a pet policy with SOL which renews every year. It pays vet fees limited to
£1,000 per condition. Once that limit has been reached the condition claimed for is no longer
covered by the policy and is then excluded.
In February 2019 SOL paid a claim for skin atrophy. Ms R said in a further email concerning
the payment of this claim, that SOL would be shortly be getting a continuation claim.
On receipt of this continuation claim Ms Rs vet was claiming for the cost of skin biopsies.
SOL said given that the result of the skin biopsies was for a condition that was excluded, it
wouldnt pay her claim for the cost of the skin biopsies.
Ms R complained but SOL wouldnt change its stance, so she brought her complaint to us.
The investigator didnt think SOL had done anything wrong, Ms R disagreed so her
complaint has been passed to me to decide
I issued a provisional decision on 24 February and said the following:
SOL says that in the policy, treatment means any examination, consultation, advice, 
tests, X-rays, medication, surgery, nursing, and care provided by a veterinary 
practice and/or if instructed by a vet.
It also says that in the policy the following is what is covered:
We will pay:
5.3.1. reasonable vet fees arising from reasonable and customary veterinary 
procedures for treating an illness or injury.
5.3.2. for diagnostic, medical and surgical treatment facilities, procedures and
fees not primarily originating within your usual veterinary practice, provided 

SOL says the policy also excludes the following:
5.4.12. the cost of killing and controlling fleas and or tapeworms and 
roundworms, or measures to rid your pet of internal and external parasites, 
and any claims arising as a result of these procedures.
5.4.13. parasitic conditions including but not limited to lungworm, demodectic 
mange, sarcoptic mange, ticks, harvest mites, lice or ear mites.
Very sadly for Ms R, the skin biopsies result on her dog showed he was suffering 
from sarcoptic mange. Ms Rs claim is simply for the cost of the vet investigations up 
to and including the cost of the skin biopsies not the further treatment for sarcoptic 
mange. SOL says that because treatment includes tests and a biopsy is a test and 
the result of this biopsy was sarcoptic mange it doesnt need to pay the costs of the 
biopsy given its policy wording.
However, it paid the costs of the claim in February 2019 which was the start of the
investigations into the skin issues. The claim form dated 6 February 2019 also said 
the condition claimed was likely to be ongoing. Briefly the vet history for that claim 
started on 4 May 2018 where Ms Rs dog was treated with an anti-itch medication 
and various shampoos. By October 2018 the treatment had moved on to prescribing 
steroids. The vet history for this claim stopped on 10 November 2018.
The second claim for this same condition which SOL refused to pay was for 
treatment from 2 February 2019 when from the vet history it appears Mr Rs dog 
simply hadnt improved since he was last seen. The steroid dose was then increased. 
That didnt help so skin scrapes were done in April 2019. They didnt show up too 
much, so the biopsy was finally done on 15 May 2019. SOL refused to pay all of this 
claim including the skin scrapes and the increased steroid medication plus the cost of 
the biopsies.
I consider that if SOL was prepared to pay a claim for an unidentified skin condition in
February 2019, its fair and reasonable that it continues to pay the vet costs until the
condition is clearly identified. That couldnt be done until after the results of the skin 
biopsy so I consider it should pay Ms Rs claim inclusive of the costs of the biopsy 
but exclusive of the costs of any medication then prescribed. In the vet history it does 
note the prescription costs of medication for sarcoptic mange in the sum of £62.18. I 
dont consider that SOL should pay these medication costs of £62.18.
Sarcoptic mange is clearly excluded. However, the wording of that exclusion doesnt 
make it clear that the costs of diagnosing it are also excluded and if thats what SOL 
didnt want to cover, I consider it should have made it far clearer. In situations where 
the meaning of an exclusion (or any term) becomes unclear or contradictory given 
the facts of any circumstances, then, as SOL are aware, the meaning in the favour of 
the policyholder is then preferred.
Here the relevant exclusion is preceded by a clause which excludes the cost of 
treating fleas etc but as regards sarcoptic mange it merely says thats excluded but 
doesnt say anything about the costs of treating it or indeed the costs of diagnosing 
it like the previous clause did. Further in the original claim which SOL paid it included 
an anti-itch medication which is also used to treat a flea allergy. So again, if SOL 
were happy to pay for a medication used to treat a flea allergy amongst other 
allergies (note the vet history doesnt describe for what precisely this medication was 
being prescribed) when fleas were excluded then it should pay the vets cost up to 
and including the diagnosis of sarcoptic mange.
And for the avoidance of any doubt I dont consider that its reasonable for a 
policyholder such as Ms R should know that the definition of treatment is relevant to 
the exclusion clause unless the exclusion clause directs her to it in the usual way, by 
mentioning the word and ensuring it is in bold type. That isnt the case here.
Miss R accepted my provisional decision. SOL replied explaining what Sarcoptic mange was 
and how it developed which was why it wouldnt accept it should pay the claim.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld. Thats 
because I consider as SOL were happy to pay the costs of the start of these investigations 
and indeed treatment into as yet an unidentified skin condition of Ms Rs dog, which as we 
know turned out to be Sarcoptic mange, it follows it should continue to pay for those 
investigations until the diagnosis was confirmed.
However more importantly I remain of the view that the policy wording isnt clear enough as I 
explained at some length in my provisional decision above. So, to repeat, for the avoidance 
of any doubt I dont consider that its reasonable for a policyholder such as Ms R should 
know that the definition of treatment is relevant to the exclusion clause unless the exclusion 
clause directs her to it in the usual way, by mentioning the word and ensuring it is in bold 
type. That isnt the case here. 
And in situations where the meaning of an exclusion (or any term) becomes unclear or 
contradictory given the facts of any circumstances, then, as SOL are aware, the meaning in 
the favour of the policyholder is then preferred.
 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint 
I now require Society of Lloyds to do the following:
Pay Ms Rs claim excluding the costs of the medication prescribed in the sum of 
£62.18.
If Ms R has already paid her vet these costs, it should add interest of 8% simple per 
year from the date Ms R paid her vet to the date it refunds her. If income tax is to be 
deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Ms R 
for HMRC purposes.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman