DRN-2498046
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2000. Mrs P says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI when it was added to her 
credit card account some years after she took out her credit card.
What happened
Mrs P complained through her representative about the mis-sale of the PPI. Barclays didnt 
uphold her complaint, but did refund her some commission and interest. Mrs P didnt accept 
Barclays resolution of her complaint and referred her complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Mrs P didnt agree and asked for it to be 
referred to an ombudsman. Mrs Ps complaint comes to me for a decision. There was some 
delay passing Mrs Ps complaint to an ombudsman and for that I apologise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs P says PPI wasnt clearly explained to her and she didnt need the policy because 
she had a significant amount of sick pay and wouldve had no difficulty managing her 
repayments if out of work. She said had she been told about the costs and benefits she 
wouldve declined PPI. 
This policy was sold to Mrs P some years after she took out her credit card. So, I think it 
likely that Mrs P wouldve understood she didnt need PPI to get the credit, because 
shed had her account for around five years before PPI was added.
I cant know exactly what was discussed on the telephone about the costs and benefits, 
but I think Mrs P wouldve understood she had to pay something for the cover. The cost 
of the PPI appeared on her monthly statements. So, I think if Mrs P didnt want to pay 
for PPI, she likely wouldve said something at the time.
Barclays has said that likely it recommended this policy to Mrs P.To be fair to Mrs P, Ive 
worked on that basis, as that means Barclays had the added responsibility of considering 
whether the policy was suitable for her needs. It also had to give her information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading, so that she could decide for herself if the PPI was right for 
her and if she wanted to buy it.
I think the policy was suitable for Mrs Ps needs. I say this because:
Mrs P said she didnt need PPI because of her significant sick pay benefits. 
She told this service she thought she wouldve got around 4 months worth of 
sick pay, if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness. The policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for accident, sickness and 
unemployment claims, so longer than Mrs Ps work benefits wouldve 
covered her for. It wouldve allowed her to use her work benefits to meet her 
other expenditure. I think this couldve been important to Mrs P as she said 
she had no other means of making her repayments. So, I cant see that the 
policy was unsuitable or unnecessary in Mrs Ps circumstances. I think it 
couldve provided her with a valuable benefit.
Mrs P was eligible to take out the policy and it appeared affordable.
I cant see that Mrs P was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. So, I dont think having more information about these things 
wouldve changed her decision to take out the policy.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
buying it.
So, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. But Barclays has paid back some of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs P. This is because it got a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell her, that was unfair. To put that right, Barclays has 
paid Mrs P back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case. So I think Barclays has 
already compensated Mrs P fairly for the commission and profit share that was over 
50% of her PPI premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold  which means that Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. As Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid back 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, 
I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman