DRN-2501428
The complaint
Mr K complains that Motors Insurance Company Limited have declined his Guaranteed 
Asset Protection (GAP) insurance claim after his brand-new car was written-off following an 
accident.
What happened
In 2019 Mr K took possession of a brand-new car at his home address. The V5C registration 
certificate (log book) initially showed Mr K as the registered keeper, but two weeks after 
getting the car he changed it to the name of one of his businesses (Company U).
Just over a month later the car was deemed a total loss (written-off) after an accident. 
Although the third-party insurer accepted the claim, Mr K still owed money on the finance 
agreement, so he made a claim on the GAP insurance policy hed bought when he 
purchased the car.
Motors Insurance Company Limited, the underwriters, declined to pay out. They said 
exclusions applied because the car appeared to be owned by a motor trader and had been 
used for hire or reward.
Motors Insurance Company Limited pointed to a social media page which described 
Company Us business as Automotive consultant  Vehicle leasing service  Car rental, and 
another social media account in the name of Company U where Mr K had posted a picture of 
the car and described it as the latest addition to the fleet. They added that Mr K is not only 
the Director of Company U but also the Director of another business providing taxi services.
They highlighted the following sections of the policy:
Eligibility
You are eligible for cover if at the Start Date of the policy: 
b) You are either the owner of Your Vehicle or have a Finance Agreement, contract 
hire or Lease Agreement in relation to Your Vehicle, or are the registered keeper of 
Your Vehicle;
Your Vehicle is eligible for cover if at the Start Date of the policy: 
c) The Vehicle is not to be used for hire or reward, short-term self-drive or driving 
tuition in connection with Your occupation;
Exclusions 
Your Vehicle if it is Insured on any type of motor trade insurance 
policy 
Your Vehicle if it is owned by a garage, Vehicle trader or any other 
associated Vehicle trade company 
Your Vehicle if it is used  for any hire or reward or as a taxi 
Mr K said:
The car was his personal vehicle, owned by him and used solely by him;
The finance used to buy the car was in his name - the deposit and monthly payments 
were made from his bank account;
The finance agreement prohibited leasing the car;
Only Mr K was insured to drive the car;
The cars number plate was personalised to Mr K;
Company U was not a vehicle leasing company, but sold and maintained cars;
The social media post referring to the car as part of the fleet meant simply that the 
car had entered the family household;
The social media page describing Company Us business as Vehicle leasing had 
been set up by his nephew, had not been active for 2  3 years and did not feature 
the vehicle involved in this claim; and
Hed changed the registered keeper to Company U for ease of correspondence.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. Although he couldnt be certain the car had 
been used for hire, he said it seemed more likely than not, because of the V5C document, 
the car was owned by a vehicle trader. On that basis he thought it fair and reasonable for 
Motors Insurance Company Limited to rely on the exclusion and decline the claim.
Mr K didnt accept that. He said the V5C doesnt prove the car was owned by Company U.
Further information from Mr K
I asked Mr K for some more information about his ownership and use of the car. He was 
able to provide the following:
He paid a deposit for the car on his debit card;
The car finance agreement was in his name and referenced his home, not business 
address;
He made the finance payments from an account in the name of Company M  Mr K 
is the sole Director of Company M  a food retail business  and he paid for the car 
from that account as its his only income source;
He held comprehensive insurance cover for the car which detailed the persons 
entitled to drive as Mr K only, and the permitted use as Social, Domestic and 
Pleasure;
When taking out that insurance hed estimated his annual mileage as 5,000 miles 
and said the car would be kept at his home address;When the car was written-off it had done 2,779 miles  mileage accumulated by 
driving his elderly mother to his sisters home (around 180 miles away) to provide 
support after the birth of her child; and
Changing the registered keeper to Company U made correspondence easier 
because he is usually at that address (the address he also runs Company M from), 
there are staff present to deal with queries when hes away, and it was more difficult 
receiving post at home because of significant renovation works that were ongoing at 
the time.
Having considered all the available evidence, I thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld, 
so I issued a provisional decision on 10 December 2020. I said:
Motors Insurance Company Limited have sought to exclude Mr Ks claim on the 
basis that the car was owned by a vehicle trader (Company U) and/or used for any 
hire or reward or as a taxi. But apart from the V5C registration certificate, I havent 
seen any evidence that the car was owned by a garage, vehicle trader or any other 
associated vehicle trade company. And apart from a social media post describing 
the car as part of Mr Ks fleet, I havent seen any evidence that the car was used or 
offered for hire or reward. Whilst Motors Insurance Company Limited are correct to 
identify that Mr K is also the Director of a business providing taxi services, that 
business has been dormant and non-trading since at least May 2017.
Ive looked closely at the social media page and account referred to by Motors 
Insurance Company Limited. The page describing Company U as a Vehicle leasing 
service hasnt been posted to since August 2016, and the web domain link provided 
on that page isnt connected to a website. So, whilst the page talks about a fleet of 
luxury and supercars and contains pictures of several luxury cars available to hire, 
the lack of website suggests these aspirations for the business in 2016 werent fully 
realised. The page seems more aimed at sharing pictures of supercars and 
commenting on their performance. Moreover, the content of this page doesnt lead 
me to conclude the car bought and written-off in 2019 was ever offered for hire.
Turning to the other social media account, its clear Mr K uses it to share pictures of 
supercars, car modifications and coachworks. He also uses it to promote his food 
retail business (Company M) and his family members coachworks business. But 
there are no recent posts relating to car leasing.
The car involved in this claim does feature in the posts on that account, but not in 
connection with hire or booking details. In these pictures the car is often parked at 
Mr Ks place of work (Company M), suggesting he was using it himself to get to and 
from work. Although the first picture of this car described it as an addition to a fleet, 
I think this signifies it was a new car for an extended family who own a large 
collection of cars between them. I dont think this description can be taken to mean 
that this particular car was available for hire or reward. I think its more likely Mr K 
included photographs of this car to attract followers to his social media account.
Ive also taken into account that when Mr K insured this car he did so in his own 
name, bought a comprehensive car insurance policy that specifically excluded hiring 
the car, and estimated the annual mileage to be 5,000 miles. Had he intended to 
make the car available for use by others I think hed have insured the car to take 
account of that and estimated a higher annual mileage. I acknowledge that by the 
date of the accident the car had done more than half of the estimation. But Mr K has provided a plausible explanation about why the mileage exceeded his initial 
expectations. I cant say, without more, that the mileage at the point of the accident 
indicates the car was used for hire or reward.
With regard to the ownership of the car, I have seen that the finance used to buy the 
car was provided under an agreement in Mr Ks name. Hes also shown that he made 
payments towards the finance from his food retail business account, not an account 
in the name of Company U. The sales invoice for the car is also in Mr Ks name and 
references his home address. If it had been bought for the benefit of Company U, I 
would have expected the invoice to be addressed to Company U.
Although I understand why his decision to change the registered keeper to Company 
U has prompted Motors Insurance Company Limited to question who owns the car, 
the V5C doesnt prove ownership. And I dont think Mr Ks reason for changing it is 
unreasonable when considered in the context that his house was undergoing 
renovation, and he thought correspondence could be more easily accessed and 
handled at the address of his businesses.
So, I currently dont think theres sufficient evidence that this car was owned by a 
vehicle trade company. Im satisfied Mr K used the car in his capacity as a private 
individual and remained the owner of the car when the registered keeper was 
changed.
It follows that I dont think Motors Insurance Company Limited have turned down 
Mr Ks claim fairly.
Responses to my provisional decision
In reply, Motors Insurance Company Limited accepted that the evidence the car was used 
for hire or reward is not strong enough, but they still thought the car was owned by a vehicle 
trader, rather than Mr K as a private individual.
They provided a screen shot showing that the car dealership (the broker of the GAP policy) 
registered the policy in the name of Company U and using Mr Ks home address. Motors 
Insurance Company Limited said this wouldnt have been apparent to them until the point of 
claim.
They also said the written-off vehicle was repaired by Mr Ks family members coachworks 
business; a business which appears to specialise in repairing written-off vehicles. They said 
he may therefore have benefited from preferential rates  vastly reducing the cost of 
repairing the damaged vehicle. Finally, they said Mr K had also been a Director of this 
coachworks business in the past.
They said Mr Ks claim should be declined on the basis that his connections to the motor 
trade will have given him advantages.
Mr K also provided further information; statements from his mother and sister to support 
what hed said about the cars mileage at the time of the accident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it.I note that the broker seems to have registered the GAP policy in the name of Company U, 
but I dont think their doing so undermines the other evidence which points to this car being 
owned by Mr K. I also note that the premium paid for the GAP policy was included on the 
invoice addressed to Mr K, not Company U.
I acknowledge that Mr K is the Director of a business (Company U) that is involved in selling 
and maintaining used cars. I can also see that Mr K has family connections in the motor 
trade. But the exclusion Motors Insurance Company Limited are seeking to rely on here is 
about who owns the vehicle, not what connections the vehicles owner has. And I still dont 
think theres enough to say this car was owned by a garage, Vehicle trader or any other 
associated Vehicle trade company .
Mr K and Company U are separate legal entities. When Mr K buys something, be it car 
related or not, that doesnt mean hes bought it for the benefit of Company U or that it 
becomes an asset of Company U. And Ive seen that the sales invoice for this vehicle was in 
Mr Ks name and referenced his home address, which is different to the registered business 
address of Company U. As I said in my provisional decision, if it had been bought for the 
benefit of Company U, I would have expected the invoice to refer to Company U.
I also find the certificate of comprehensive car insurance persuasive; it shows the vehicle 
was insured by Mr K, that he was the only named driver and that it was insured for Social, 
Domestic and Pleasure use only. I think this indicates its principle use was as a private car 
for Mr Ks personal use, and that is supported by the social media posts Ive seen which 
show Mr K regularly used the car, including for commuting to and from his place of work. 
And it was Mr K who paid the deposit for the car, entered into the agreement to finance the 
purchase and paid the monthly payments.
I think the policy term Motors Insurance Company Limited are seeking to rely on here is 
designed to exclude claims where the car is a benefit to or asset of a business. But Im 
satisfied thats not the case here, and that this car was bought by Mr K for his personal use. 
So, I still dont think it would be fair for Motors Insurance Company Limited to decline the 
claim on this basis.
My final decision
For the reasons set out here, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I require Motors Insurance Company Limited to settle Mr Ks claim subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. It should add simple interest to any settlement at a rate of 
8% a year from the date of Mr Ks claim to the date it makes payment.1
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman
1 If Motors Insurance Company Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.