DRN-3670994
The complaint
Miss W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC are holding her liable for a loan she 
was coerced into taking out. 
What happened
Miss W took out a loan of £15,000 with Tesco. The funds were deposited into her account 
with a bank Ill call S. Miss W then gave the funds to her ex-partner via a £10,000 withdrawal 
and £5,000 bank transfer.  
Miss W advised how her ex-partner had asked for the loan to pay a business partner, and 
hed promised to repay her the money in full. However this didnt happen. Miss W later 
realised shed sadly been the victim of a romance scam, she complained to Tesco advising 
she was being held liable for a loan shed been coerced into taking out by her ex-partner.
Tesco looked into Miss Ws complaint  but concluded shed taken out the loan, and in doing 
so consented to repay the debt.
Miss W wasnt happy with Tescos response so complained to our service.  
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ws complaint. Miss W provided evidence from a 
medical practitioner showing the impact of being required to repay the loan on her mental 
health. Our investigator thought that Tesco should have done more. She didn't think Tesco 
acted unfairly in approving the loan - but felt that as Miss W was scammed into taking out 
the loan she shouldn't pay any interest and charges on the capital.
Miss W agreed but Tesco's didn't. The bank felt that Bank S should be held responsible for 
allowing Miss W to withdraw £10,000 in cash. And this is when the scam should have been 
spotted.
As Tesco didnt agree the case was passed to me for a decision. 
I contacted Tesco, and explained my initial thoughts. I explained that I thought Miss W was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam, she hadnt benefited from the funds and therefore 
shouldnt pay interest on the capital. 
Tescos responded and advised they didnt agree with my recommendation. They reiterated 
that Bank S should be held responsible for allowing the loan to be withdrawn. And theyd 
acted fairly in approving the loan. 
As Tesco didnt agree Ive reviewed my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's my understanding, that Tesco accepts Miss W was the victim of a romance scam. I can 
see that this is recorded in their notes when Miss W contacted Tesco. And they've not 
challenged our investigator's view on this basis. 
Having reviewed the evidence Im satisfied that Miss W was unfortunately the victim of a 
cruel and sophisticated romance scam perpetrated by a person she thought she was in a 
relationship with. I say this as Miss W provided a detailed statement taken by the police, a 
consistent account of events, newspaper articles about the perpetrator and information from 
a third party bank showing a loan taken out by her through coercion was written off. 
Ive thought about what Id expect from Tesco in this situation. And Ive firstly considered 
whether Miss W should be held liable for the loan. Miss W was the victim of a scam however 
all of the information provided to Tesco, when Miss W was taking out the loan, was accurate. 
And at the time the loan was applied for neither Miss W, or Tesco, were aware she was 
being scammed. It follows I understand why Tescos approved the loan. And for this reason I 
wont be asking them to remove Miss Ws liability for the capital. But, the interest and 
charges on the loan are something Ill need to consider separately. 
Interest and charges
Miss W is a vulnerable consumer having been a victim of economic abuse, and the negative 
impacts on her mental health. Ive thought about what Id expect from Tesco when working 
with vulnerable consumers. 
In 2017 UK Finance worked with representatives from charities, victim support groups and 
government departments to develop a voluntary Financial Abuse Code of Practice. The 
Code of Practice established best practice for businesses when working with victims of 
financial abuse and tried to ensure more consistency in the support available. 
The code outlines vulnerable consumers shouldn't be financially disadvantaged by the 
actions of a business. Specifically in section 5 (e) states:
Firms shall provide support for customers with debt and arrears and work with the victim to 
help prevent further debt from accruing, including by reviewing applicable charges and fees. 
Miss W was the victim of a romance scam, and as a result experienced significant emotional
distress. And shes been detrimentally impacted in having to repay the loan capital. As 
outlined above good industry practice states Tesco should work with Miss W to prevent 
further debt accruing. Although I agree its fair for Miss W to repay the capital, she was 
coerced into taking the loan and didnt benefit from it. For this reason I'm satisfied it wouldn't 
be fair for Miss W to also pay any interest and charges that have accrued on the loan. 
Tesco have argued Bank S should be held responsible for Miss W owing the debt, 
highlighting that they believe they should have identified the large cash withdrawals Miss W 
completed when the loan entered her account. And therefore on doing so prevented Miss W 
handing the money over to the fraudster. Ive considered Tescos argument, and I agree all 
financial providers have responsibilities to protect their customers from financial harm and to 
identify activity which might indicate this is the case. 
But, Im satisfied this doesnt change Tescos responsibilities here. They still have a 
responsibility to assess whether applying charges and interest is fair and reasonable and in 
line with best industry practice at the time. And for the reasons Ive already outlined I dont 
think its fair for interest and charges to apply in Miss Ws case. Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above Ill be asking Tesco to remove the interest and charges 
accrued on the loan. And not charge any interest and charges on the outstanding capital. 
Id also like to remind Tesco they have a responsibility to act positivity and sympathetically 
towards Miss W in arranging an affordable repayment plan for the debt. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
Remove any interest and charges from the outstanding loan amount, and not charge 
any interest or charges on the remaining capital. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman