DRN-3401296
The complaint
Miss M and Mr R are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on  
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M and Mr R have a travel insurance policy linked to a bank account. On 7 September 
2020 they booked flights to an island in the Canary Islands. They were due to travel on 
26 December 2020. On 23 October 2020 Miss M and Mr R booked their accommodation. 
At the time they booked the accommodation the Foreign and Commonwealth Development 
Officer (FCDO) were advising against all but essential travel to Spain. However, there was 
an exception for the Canary Islands. However, on 22 December 2020 the government of 
Spain restricted passenger arrivals until 5 January 2021, except for Spanish nationals. 
Miss M and Mr R were unable to go on their holiday and claimed on their insurance policy for 
the flights and accommodation.
UKI agreed to pay for the cost of the accommodation as, at the time Miss M booked it, there 
was FCDO advice against travel. However, they declined to cover the cost of the flights as 
Miss M had booked them on a date when there was FCDO advice against all but essential 
travel to Spain. Miss M complained because she thought UKI should cover the cost of the 
flights and because she was unhappy that UKI had contacted the booking website she used 
about the claim. In their final response letter UKI maintained their decision to decline the 
claim and said that data protection was not breached when their case handler contacted the 
booking website. Unhappy, Miss M complained to our service. UKI reviewed the complaint 
and offered £250 compensation relating to the call between their case handler and Miss M. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. Ultimately, she didnt uphold the complaint 
as she thought that it was reasonable for UKI to decline the claim. She noted that when 
Miss M booked the flights and accommodation her local area was subject to lockdown 
restrictions (which prevented her from travelling). So, she said that, irrespective of the rules 
introduced by Spain in December 2020, it was reasonable to expect that she may not have 
been able to travel and anticipated events were excluded under the policy terms and 
conditions. She also thought the £250 UKI had offered in relation to the phone call was fair. 
Miss M didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, she 
said that shed successfully claimed for the hotel accommodation under the natural disaster 
section of the policy and the reason for her claim was the restrictions Spain put in place. She 
said FCDO advice didnt prevent her from travelling and the restrictions placed on 
holidaymakers from the UK was unprecedented. She also highlighted that the investigator 
had initially upheld her complaint. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy covers Miss M and Mr R for cancellation due to a change in certain 
circumstances including the following reasons:
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All but 
essential to your intended destination providing the advice came into force 
after you opened your Platinum account or booked your trip (whichever was 
the later) and was in the 28 days before your departure on your trip 
You are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid accommodation 
because the accommodation or immediately surrounding area is adversely 
affected by natural disaster. 
The policy doesnt cover an anticipated event. This is defined in the policy as: 
Any event or occurrence which you or your immediate family knew would occur or 
could reasonably have expected to occur during your trip and which you or your 
immediate family were aware of at the time you became an insured person, or the 
date when you booked your trip, whichever is later.
Im not upholding Miss M and Mr Rs complaint because: 
Miss M booked her flights in September 2020, around six months after 
Covid-19 was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organisation 
(WHO). Between March 2020 and September 2020 there was widespread 
and ongoing disruption to travel as a result of the pandemic. This disruption 
continued during the summer and autumn of 2020, including with the 
introduction of travel corridors. The list of countries UK travellers were 
permitted to visit changed relatively frequently and it was also common for 
restrictions to be imposed by the governments of other countries, often at 
relatively short notice 
I think its reasonable for UKI to conclude that disruption to travel was an 
anticipated event as Miss M booked her flights at a time when there was 
ongoing disruption to travel. Restrictions and entry requirements changed a 
number of times over the summer and I think its reasonable to conclude that 
disruption to travel was an event or occurrence that could have been 
reasonably expected to occur at the time of booking the flightsMiss M argues that the event which prevented her from travelling was the 
restriction placed on British citizens by the Spanish government and that it 
was unprecedented. She says this action had never happened in her lifetime 
before and that it was impossible to anticipate or predict such action would be 
taken. I dont agree thats the case. As Ive outlined above, between March 
and September 2020 there was widespread disruption to international travel, 
linked to Covid-19. In March 2020 Spain went into lockdown which had a 
significant impact on UK holidaymakers. So, I dont think Spains decision to 
restrict entry to UK citizens was impossible to anticipate or predict given what 
had happened between March and September 2020. The fact that Miss M 
booked at a time when there were various local restrictions in place in the UK 
further persuades me that was the case. It further demonstrates that the 
situation in relation to Covid-19 was uncertain and ongoing at the time she 
booked the flights.
UKI agreed to pay the accommodation costs under the natural disaster 
section of the policy. I think that was more than reasonable and not 
something I would have directed UKI to do in the circumstances of this case. 
As Ive outlined above, based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for UKI to conclude that disruption to travel was an anticipated 
event. 
Just because UKI have agreed to cover the accommodation expenses, it 
doesnt automatically follow that they should also cover the cost of the flights. 
The natural disaster clause only applies to accommodation, not flights. So, 
there is no cover in the policy for flights cancelled due to a natural disaster. 
And, I dont think it there are any fair and reasonable grounds to ask UKI to 
cover the cost of the flights under that section of the policy.
Miss M has been offered £250 for any distress and inconvenience caused by 
UKI contacting the booking website. I think this is fairly reflects any upset she 
was caused.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman