DRN-4327449
Complaint
Miss L is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt reimburse her in full after she fell victim to 
a safe account scam.
Background
In November 2021, Miss L received a text message which purported to be from HSBC. It 
asked her to confirm whether a particular card transaction had been made by her. She 
confirmed that it hadnt, and so she was called by someone claiming to be an employee of 
the HSBC fraud team. Unfortunately, this call was not from a legitimate employee of the 
bank, but a fraudster.
She was told that the security on her account had been compromised and that it was 
essential she move her money to a new safe account which the bank had opened for her. 
She was also told that it was imperative that she not reveal to anyone (including any other 
employee of the bank) that she was being asked to do this. To do otherwise would risk 
tipping off the fraudster responsible for compromising the security of her accounts. 
She made the following payments from her HSBC account:
27 November £3,560 to Payee A
28 November £6,100 to Payee B
£3,200 to Payee B
£4,200 to Payee B
30 November £3,400 to Payee C
£6,100 to Payee D
1 December £6,800 to Payee D1
Each of the payments set out above was made to a named individual. She was told the first 
recipient was the name of the manager of her local branch of HSBC. She was told the 
subsequent three payments had to be made to a different person because the source of the 
funds was her savings account. They needed to be transferred to someone who dealt with
that type of account.
HSBC temporarily paused the first payment on 27 November and spoke to Miss L before
allowing it to go through. As instructed by the scammers, she told the HSBC employee that
1 This payment was funded by the proceeds of a fraudulent loan application submitted in Miss Ls
name by the scammers.
the transfer was to pay for a kitchen renovation. The call handler gave a detailed explanation 
of the most commonly occurring scam types in order to warn Miss L about the risk that she 
too had been targeted by a scam. He said:
Theres a lot of scammers right now claiming to be from HSBC, from the fraud team
or from the branch or even from other companies  who may send you an email,
text message or even call you. So when these scammers call, they will tell you that
the number you see on your caller ID is the same as the number on the back of your
debit card  and also, these scammers will tell you that your account is already
compromised and then they will tell you to transfer your money to people you do not
know or to a fake account they pretend to open for you.
Sometimes they will tell you they need your help with a fake investigation to catch a 
fake fraudster at an HSBC branch.
[]
They will tell you to convince or mislead HSBC that the transfer is going to a builder,
a family member, a friend, a safekeeping account or a loan for a family business.
The HSBC employee then asked Miss L Have you received any calls, messages or emails 
similar to this? and Miss L said that she hadnt. She agreed to proceed with the payment. 
HSBC spoke to Miss L again in connection with the fourth transaction. The call handler 
asked her Is this a one-off transfer or will you be transferring more funds? Miss L said that 
there wouldnt be any more transfers. She said there were three separate invoices, and this 
was the final one. The next two payments were made without any queries from HSBC.
On 1 December, Miss L discovered that a fake loan application had been submitted in her 
name. She went to her local branch to explain what had happened and was told that a 
member of the fraud team would contact her later that day. She did receive a phone call, but 
it was from the fraudsters rather than HSBC. She was persuaded by the fraudsters to 
transfer the proceeds of that loan to Payee D.
Shortly afterwards, she visited the branch again and mentioned what had happened over the 
previous days. The branch staff recognised that shed fallen victim to a scam. After an 
investigation, HSBC confirmed that it wouldnt refund her losses in full. It said that it had 
given her an effective warning on 27 November and that she hadnt done enough to verify 
the legitimacy of the call. However, it thought it shouldve given a warning in connection with 
payments 3 and 4 but didnt do so. As a result, it agreed to refund 50% of the money shed 
lost when making those payments.
Miss L was unhappy with that response and so she referred the complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. She thought that Miss L hadnt taken 
sufficient care and that there were several red flags that ought to have put her on notice that 
the call was unlikely to be from HSBC.
Miss L disagreed with the Investigators view. She said that HSBC shouldve done more to 
warn her about the risk of scams. She also argued that she was vulnerable at the time 
because she suffers with anxiety.
Because Miss L disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to 
consider.Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 August. I wrote:
Its common ground that Miss L authorised the payments in question, albeit I accept 
that she was tricked into doing so. These were, therefore, authorised payments and 
so under the relevant rules and regulations, she is presumed liable at first instance. 
However, that isnt the end of the story. HSBC is a signatory to the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. The Code says 
that customers who fall victim to Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams such as 
this one should be reimbursed, subject to some limited exceptions.
One of those exceptions is that the firm can opt not to reimburse its customer if the 
Customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that  the 
person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. Ive carefully 
considered whether that exception applies here and, while I dont doubt that Miss L 
sincerely believed the request to be genuine, Im not persuaded that belief was a 
reasonable one.
As I understand it, the fraudsters didnt need to take any significant steps to persuade 
her that the request was genuine. They didnt have any information about Miss L or 
her accounts that one might only expect her bank to know. I also understand they 
didnt spoof a genuine HSBC number  a commonly used tactic of fraudsters to 
persuade consumers that they are genuinely working for the bank. She seems to 
have taken the claim that this call was from HSBC at face value. I think she ought to 
have been more sceptical than she was, particularly when she was asked to make 
multiple payments to accounts belonging to named individuals without a particularly 
persuasive justification for doing so.
Ive also considered the information HSBC communicated to her about the fraud risk. 
The written warnings she saw when making the payments were not particularly 
relevant to the scenario she was faced with. On the instructions of the scammer, 
shed selected a payment purpose that would display an irrelevant warning. 
However, HSBC spoke with Miss L in connection with the first payment. Ive listened 
to that call and part of it is transcribed in the background section of this decision. The 
call handler gave her a detailed description of the potential scam types that might 
have been relevant in her circumstances. She was asked whether shed received any 
messages or calls that matched the description shed just been given and responded 
that she hadnt.
I think this conversation was sufficiently detailed and relevant to the scam that she 
had been targeted by that it shouldve made her realise that this was unlikely to be a 
genuine request from an employee of the bank. For that reason, Im satisfied that she 
made these payments without a reasonable basis for believing the request to be 
legitimate.
Miss L also told the Investigator that she suffers with anxiety and takes medication 
prescribed by her doctor to help manage it. The CRM Code does apply differently 
where the customer is vulnerable. It says that a customer is vulnerable if it would not 
be reasonable to expect that Customer to have protected themselves  against that 
particular APP scam. While I appreciate what Miss L has said about her mental 
health difficulties, Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest that they meant she was unable to protect herself and so Im not currently persuaded that she meets that 
definition.
Other considerations
In addition to its obligations under the Code, good industry practice required HSBC to 
be on the lookout for account activity or transactions that might be indicative of a 
fraud risk. In this instance, it intervened on the first payment Miss L made and didnt 
process it until it had asked her several fraud related questions and given her a 
verbal warning about the risks posed by commonly occurring scams. As I explained 
above, Im satisfied that it did all that it could in connection with that first payment.
However, when Miss L spoke with HSBC the following day, she told the call handler 
that the fourth payment was the final payment she was making in connection with her 
kitchen renovation. She told the call handler that there would be no more payments 
and that there were three separate invoices she needed to settle.
In my view, it shouldve been concerned when further spending followed. She made 
a further payment to a new payee but also said that this payment was for a kitchen 
renovation. That contradicted what shed told the HSBC agent in an earlier call and 
the introduction of a third payee suggested a strong possibility that the kitchen 
renovation was a cover story.
I think HSBC should, therefore, have paused the payment made on 30 November 
until it had spoken to Miss L to satisfy itself that she wasnt at risk of fraud. If it had 
done so, I think its likely that the scam wouldve been uncovered. I say that because 
it appears that the coaching she was given by the scammer was superficial. I dont 
think its likely shed have been able to explain why further payments were required 
or who the new payee was. Essentially, I think if some straightforward questions 
about the transaction had been put to her, its likely that holes in her cover story 
wouldve become apparent.
Ive also considered whether Miss L can fairly be considered partially responsible for 
her losses. Ive taken into account what the law says about contributory negligence 
but also kept in mind that I must reach a decision on this complaint based on what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Having done so, Im satisfied that its fair for Miss L to be considered partially 
responsible here. Ive already made a finding that she made these payments without 
a reasonable basis of belief. I think that the 27 November phone call put her on 
notice that this request was unlikely to have genuinely come from HSBC and that she 
ought to have proceeded with greater caution. For the same reasons, Im satisfied 
that its fair and reasonable for HSBC to deduct 50% from the compensation it pays 
her.
Miss L disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary, she argued that:
-My findings were underpinned by personal opinion and that that shouldnt be a factor 
when reaching a decision on a case like this.
- She was in a state of panic and anxiety at the time she was dealing with the 
scammers. Her actions were reasonable ones if considered in that context.
- She disagreed with the finding Id reached about whether she was vulnerable under 
the CRM Code. She pointed out that vulnerability is not necessarily a permanent state and that she considers she was vulnerable at the time the scam took place. In 
support of that, she provided me with some background information about her 
personal circumstances, including the fact that shes a single parent on a low income 
and is responsible for caring for a child with significant learning difficulties. 
HSBC also disagreed with my provisional findings. It responded to say that:
- Miss L misled HSBC on previous occasions so there was no reason to assume that 
shed have responded differently if it had acted in connection with the final payment.
- She was clearly under the spell of the scammers and it is unlikely that shed have 
acted differently. It suggested that she may have been coached by the scammers in 
case of further queries from the bank.
- It also disagreed that the payment was sufficiently out of character such that it would 
justify intervention. 
Ive carefully considered the further arguments made by both sides, but Im not persuaded to 
depart from the position I set out in my provisional decision.
I want to be clear that I accept Miss L believed that the request to transfer her funds was a 
genuine one. However, my finding was that this belief was not a reasonable one for her to 
hold. Its not my intention for that finding to come across as judgemental  but the CRM 
Code includes a test that relates to the reasonableness of the customers belief which I 
quoted in the provisional decision.
The Code cant prescribe every potential scenario and give guidance on which specific 
actions by a customer would be reasonable or not. Its my role to look at the available 
evidence and come to a determination based on what that evidence shows. Its inevitable, 
therefore, that my decision will use phrases such as I think  after all, the decision is setting 
out my thoughts on the matter. However, it isnt the case that my decision is based on a 
hunch, as shes said - I can assure Miss L Ive thought very carefully about what the 
evidence shows.  
I accept what Miss L has said about the state of mind she was operating in at the time. She 
was in a state of serious anxiety and panic and this had been induced by the scammer. 
However, the call she had with the bank on 27 November very clearly and directly addressed 
the scenario she was in. Miss L has queried the fact that I mentioned that the scammers 
didnt spoof the HSBC number and that one wouldnt expect the average customer to 
recognise the number of their bank. Spoofing is a common trick used by fraudsters  to 
reassure a customer that the enquiry is a genuine one. They may call using what appears to 
be a number belonging to the bank and then ask the victim to verify it  for example, by 
looking up the customer services number online or checking the number on the back of their 
debit card. The fact that this doesnt appear to have happened in Miss Ls case suggests 
that she took the claim that the call was from the bank at face value. 
I agree with Miss L that vulnerability isnt necessarily a permanent state. Im considering her 
complaint under the terms of the CRM Code. That Code defines vulnerability in the same 
way. Her personal circumstances at the time clearly were difficult. However, the Code 
requires that the customers circumstances make it unreasonable to expect them to protect 
themselves. Lots of customers who find themselves in difficult personal circumstances can 
be more at risk of falling victim to a scam, but that doesnt necessarily mean that they meet 
that definition. I dont want to downplay the significance of the challenges Miss L has faced, 
but Im afraid I dont find that they reach that bar.In respect of the points raised by HSBC, I remain of the view that a further intervention was 
required. Miss L had told it that there would be no further spending  so the fact that 
spending restarted so soon afterwards, purported to be connected with the same payment 
purposes and was being made to a new payee  it was no longer credible to consider Miss L 
was making payments towards a kitchen.
I acknowledge the argument that she may simply have reiterated that the payments were for 
a kitchen, as she had done in the first call with the bank. However, by that point, I think 
HSBC ought to have assessed the later payment as being higher risk than the first one. Any 
intervention therefore needed to be proportionate to that risk. If she had been asked to 
account for why she was making further payments towards a kitchen renovation and to a 
third payee, I think its unlikely that shed have been able to give a compelling or persuasive 
explanation and the scam would therefore have likely come to light. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint in part.
If Miss L accepts my decision, HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund her 50% of the £3,400 
payment to Payee C and 50% of the £6,100 payment to Payee D. In total, that sum is 
£4,750. It should also add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum calculated to run from 
30 November 2021 until the date it pays a settlement to Miss L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman