DRN-2107035
The complaint
E is a limited company. It complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) made 
errors in how it set up and administered one of its bank accounts.
What happened
E has a number of accounts with NatWest. It says one of these is a client account  and so 
is used to hold its clients funds separately from its own. It also makes payments on behalf of 
its clients from this account. This account was opened in September 2008.
Last year, E was advised that the account hadnt been set up as a client account. It was 
actually a business current account. 
E complained to NatWest that the account had been set up incorrectly  and that it had 
incurred charges on this account when it shouldnt have.
NatWest said that even though the account was a business current account, it had been 
coded as a client account. So it said the account type wasnt a problem  as the bank had 
correctly marked it as holding client funds and undertaken not to combine them with monies 
belonging to E. It also said that a business current account was suitable where transmission 
activity  such as branch credits and electronic payments  was required, and for which 
charges would be applicable.
Es directors, Mr R and Mr M, referred the complaint to us. They said NatWest had made 
similar errors in accounts held by a linked company they owned. And in rectifying those 
issues, the bank had told them that charges shouldnt have been applied to a client account 
 so it had refunded all of them. They wanted NatWest to do the same for E. And they 
wanted compensation for the cost of the work required in arranging for clients to start paying 
into a new client account.
One of our investigators looked into Es complaint. He noted that NatWest hadnt actually 
offered designated client accounts when E had opened its account back in 2008  so he 
thought the business current account had been a reasonable alternative initially. But the 
bank had started offering client accounts in September 2010, which didnt carry any charges. 
Our investigator thought it was clear that E had wanted a client account from the outset  
and had no reason to suspect it didnt have one. So he thought it wouldve been reasonable 
for NatWest to have made E aware of the option of a designated client account when it 
became available. So he thought that NatWest should refund E any bank charges that it had 
incurred since September 2010 by having a business current account rather than a client 
account. He also recommended that NatWest pay E compensation of £500 for the 
inconvenience in communicating the change of account to its clients, and that it suspend 
charges on the existing account for two years while these changes were made. 
NatWest accepted our investigators view, but E didnt. Mr R said that NatWest should also 
refund Bankline charges that E had incurred when making transactions, as well as the 
amount of interest that the funds wouldve earned if theyd been held in a client account. 
Failing that, he thought NatWest should increase the compensation for inconvenience from 
£500 to £3,000.
NatWest wasnt willing to increase its offer and our investigator didnt think it needed to do 
anything more. And so with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Es complaint last month, setting out why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. I said: 
Theres no record of Es application to open this account from the time. Thats not 
unusual given the amount of time thats passed. In any case, I think its most likely that 
E asked for a client account, and there doesnt seem to be much dispute about that. E 
opened other accounts at the same time to manage its own funds; it needed the 
account in question to receive, hold and distribute those of its clients. Thats how the 
account has been used since it was opened. The account name includes the 
description client account, to differentiate it from Es other accounts. And in 2015, 
NatWest confirmed for regulatory purposes that the account in question fulfilled the 
purposes of a client account. 
NatWest has explained that it didnt offer dedicated client accounts when E 
approached it for one in September 2008. Ive no reason to doubt what it says about 
that. And like our investigator I think it provided a reasonable alternative. It set up a 
business current account with a marker applied, which had the effect of treating it as a 
client account  ensuring, most significantly, that the bank recognised that these 
werent funds belonging to E. NatWests internal records show this marker was applied 
and as noted above, it confirmed this usage of the account for regulatory purposes in 
2015. Theres no suggestion of any errors in how its handled the funds over the years.
The only possible shortcoming with the initial opening of the account is that NatWest 
didnt make E aware that it didnt actually have a dedicated client account  and that 
the account it was given was something of a workaround. This couldve put E on notice 
to keep the position under review  or to look elsewhere for more appropriate facilities 
altogether. Again, a lot of time has passed since the account was opened. But Mr R 
explains that he and his fellow director had no cause to question that theyd not been 
provided with a client account as theyd requested. I accept what he says about that, 
which again is supported by the name of the account and the banks declaration in 
2015.
Failing that, like our investigator I think its reasonable to suggest that in light of this 
background, NatWest could also have made E aware when it started to offer 
designated client accounts in September 2010 (or sometime shortly thereafter). I note 
that E had a relationship manager and it wouldve been apparent from the banks 
records that it was operating a business current account as a client account  when a 
more appropriate product was now available.
Had NatWest done more to make E aware of these issues either at the outset or at 
some point in 2010, I think it would most likely have switched to a designated client 
account. So Ive considered how E has lost out as a result of what went wrong.
Most notably, E incurred charges on its business current account that wouldnt have 
been applied to a client account. No charges were applied in the first two years  
which I understand was due to a free banking incentive  but they began to be 
applied in January 2011. NatWest has already offered to refund these charges. It should also add 8% simple interest to these amounts from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement to compensate E for the time its been without these funds. 
Mr R says the refund of charges should also include fees it paid for a service called 
Bankline. He says that under this service, E was charged for making payments from 
the account. He doesnt think these wouldve applied to a client account, and says that 
the banks already accepted as much in initially offering to refund charges over the 
phone. But NatWest says that E wouldve needed Bankline in order to make the large 
number of daily transactions it was processing  and that it would still have incurred 
charges, even on a client account. And it says theres no record of having offered to 
refund such charges.
Weighing up what both sides have said in respect of the Bankline charges, from what 
Ive seen so far I dont think NatWest needs to refund them. It seems to me that E had 
a need for the service due to the volume of transactions it was processing. That need 
wouldve been just the same irrespective of the account type. And NatWest has 
confirmed that the charges would still have been applicable even if E was transacting 
from a client account, rather than a current account. Ive not seen that Mr R was 
advised that these charges ought not to have been applied. But even if I accept that he 
was given that information, it doesnt seem to me to have been correct  and I 
therefore dont think the bank should be held to honour it. Rather, I think these charges 
would always have been payable  and so the amounts in question arent losses 
arising from an error by NatWest. And so I dont think I can fairly require them to be 
refunded.
Mr R also says that the account balance wouldve earned interest if held in a client 
account, which is another loss for E as it didnt earn any interest under the business 
current account. I think thats a fair point. So NatWest should also calculate the 
amount of interest that E wouldve earned if it had held its client funds in a client 
account from September 2010, when the facility became available, until the date these 
funds were transferred into the replacement client account that was set up last year.
I can also see that this matter has caused E some considerable inconvenience. Its 
had to contact all of its clients, of which I understand there are 91, and ask them to 
redirect payments to a new account. Its right that its compensated for the time and 
resource thats taken (and may continue to take). But while I appreciate what Mr R has 
said on this point  in that given its line of work, its clients might be harder to contact 
than for other businesses  this strikes me as fairly straightforward administrative 
work. I accept it might take a while to ensure all clients are now using the new account 
instead of the old one. But NatWests offer to suspend charges on the existing account 
for two years means that E has plenty of time to arrange this. And weve asked E to 
explain and evidence its claim for £3,000, but the information its sent doesnt lead me 
to think that a higher award is appropriate. So taking all of that into account, I currently 
think £500 represents fair compensation for the inconvenience this issue has caused 
E.
So to put things right, I said that I intended to tell NatWest to:
Refund all account fees applied to the current account from September 2010 
onwards, to which it should add 8% simple interest from the date the charge was 
applied to the date of settlement;
Calculate and pay to E the amount of interest it would've earned had its current 
account balance been held in a dedicated client account from September 2010 
onwards;
Honour its offer to suspend charges for a two-year period; andPay E compensation of £500.
NatWest said it had nothing further to add in response to my provisional decision. On behalf 
of E, Mr R said that while still believing more compensation to be due, he accepted my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having sent me anything further to take into 
consideration, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So this decision confirms my 
provisional findings, as set out above.
Mr R has asked that NatWest provide a breakdown of the compensation award, which I think 
is a reasonable request. So when confirming the settlement, the bank should also send E 
details of how this was calculated.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Es complaint and require National Westminster 
Bank Plc to:
Refund all account fees applied to the current account from September 2010 
onwards, to which it should add 8% simple interest from the date the charge was 
applied to the date of settlement;
Calculate and pay to E the amount of interest it would've earned had its current 
account balance been held in a dedicated client account from September 2010 
onwards;
Honour its offer to suspend charges for a two-year period; and
Pay E compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman