DRN-4075756
The complaint
Mr C complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt act 
on his instructions to sell an investment trust held in his account. The investment trust was 
later wound up and he wants compensation for the loss he says hes made, plus 
compensation for the distress hes been caused.
What happened
Mr C phoned HLAM in November 2019 to ask what he needed to do to lodge and sell a 
certificated holding in his name, which Ill refer to as J. It was agreed that HLAM would 
send him the forms he needed to lodge the certificate. 
Mr C sent HLAM a secure message on 29 February 2020 to tell it he wanted to transfer half 
of J shares to his wifes account and then to sell both holdings. He says he realised, after J 
had been wound up, that his instructions hadnt been carried out.
HLAM said it had explained to Mr C that it could only accept his sale instructions by phone, 
post, or online once J shares had been lodged in his account and the transfer to his wife had 
taken place. It said it had sent him quarterly valuations which showed J shares were still held 
in his account. HLAM said that Mr C told it he wanted to transfer and sell the shares when he 
sent in the paperwork to lodge them. It apologised that it didnt reply at that point to make it 
clear it couldnt accept his instructions until J shares had been successfully lodged. It 
credited his account with £50 by way of an apology.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
HLAM had acted in line with the agreed terms and conditions and that it had provided Mr C 
with enough information to explain what he needed to do.
Mr C didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He didnt receive the secure messages HLAM claims to have sent him. So he couldnt 
comply with its requirements.
In his secure message to HLAM dated 29 February 2020, he instructed it to sell J 
shares. HLAM told him he could sell J shares online and secure messaging is 
considered to be online.
HLAM knew he wanted to sell J shares; it should have contacted him if it couldnt act on 
his instructions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have arrived at the same conclusion as the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr C first contacted HLAM by phone on 28 November 2019 to ask how he could sell J 
shares for which he held a share certificate in his name. Ive listened to that call, and Im 
satisfied that HLAM made it clear that Mr C could give instructions to sell J shares once they 
had been successfully lodged in his account. Mr C acknowledged this as he asked how long 
it would take for the shares to be lodged. HLAM told him, Well let you know once its in the 
account and then you can place your trade. I think this made it reasonably clear that HLAM 
wouldnt accept Mr Cs sale, or transfer, instructions until J shares had been lodged in his 
account.
I find this was also set out in the secure message sent to Mr C on the same day. This said:
Please be aware that if you intend to sell or transfer your holding to another account, 
you cannot do so until the shares have successfully been transferred into the name 
of Hargreaves Lansdown Nominees Limited. This is usually approximately 3 
business days from receipt of a signed Crest Transfer form, although can sometimes 
take longer.
Once the shares have been lodged into the account you can then go online to sell 
the shares at a low cost of £11.95 if you wish. Alternatively the shares could be sold 
over the telephone at a charge of 1% (minimum £20, maximum £50).
Im satisfied this made it clear that Mr C would need to give instructions to sell or transfer J 
shares after they had been successfully lodged in his account.
Mr C says he didnt receive this secure message. But HLAM has provided a copy of Mr Cs 
reply to the message, thanking HLAM and saying he would progress things. So Im satisfied 
that he did receive it. 
Im find that HLAMs requirements about sale instructions are also set out in the agreed 
account terms and conditions. These say:
You may only sell investments held in your Account. (A14) 
So, until the shares were lodged in his account, Mr C couldnt give a valid sale instruction.
The terms also say:
Investment instructions may be given by telephone, post and (in respect of certain 
investments) via the dealing section of the HL Website or HL Mobile Application. (A11) 
So this doesnt say that instructions sent via a secure message would or could be accepted.
Mr C says that he was told he could give instructions online, and that online would 
generally include a secure messaging system. I think it was made reasonably clear  during 
the phone call, in the secure message, and in the terms and conditions  that online in this 
instance meant via HLAMs online dealing application, rather than by sending a message.
On 29 February 2020, Mr C sent a secure message to HLAM asking it to transfer 50% of 
J shares to his wifes account then to sell both holdings and send the proceeds to their joint 
bank account. Ive already set out above why I think HLAM had made it clear what Mr C 
needed to do and why HLAM wouldnt accept this instruction by secure message. HLAM 
replied to Mr Cs message on 3 March 2020 explaining why it couldnt act on the transfer 
instruction  it needed specific information about how many shares to transfer, confirmation 
that the transfer was a gift, and the name and account number to transfer the shares to. And 
that the sale orders had to be given by him, and by the recipient of the shares, either by 
phone or online in their accounts.Mr C says he didnt receive this message. He sent us a screenshot showing the messages 
he has received. But HLAMs told us that its messages are archived after two years, 
although they can be restored if Mr C wants to see them. HLAMs provided copies of all its 
messages, and Im satisfied the 3 March 2020 message was delivered to Mr C.
Mr C says he didnt realise J shares hadnt been sold until he received a lump sum after the 
company had been wound up in or around March 2021. And he complained to HLAM in 
January 2022. Whilst I appreciate its not always easy to keep abreast of account 
transactions, it was Mr Cs responsibility to check his account. He didnt receive a contract 
note for a sale transaction and he didnt receive the expected sale proceeds. Had he 
checked his account, he may have been able to resolve matters before the share price fell 
and J was wound up. J shares remained in his account, and this was reflected in the 
quarterly reports he received. Whilst Mr C doesnt think this is relevant, I think it does show 
he reasonably shouldve realised at a much earlier date that his instructions hadnt been 
actioned.
I do appreciate Mr C wouldnt have been familiar with HLAMs procedures or how to transfer 
and sell his certificated holding. But, when he contacted HLAM for guidance, Im satisfied 
that HLAM gave him a clear enough explanation of what he needed to do.
When Mr C returned the account opening form on 3 January 2020 by post, he said:
When that is done I wish [J] shares to be lodged in my name, then split in half with my wife 
owning 50%. Then I wish the shares to be sold.
HLAM replied to request the documentation it needed to fulfil its anti-money laundering 
obligations. During the investigation of Mr Cs complaint, it accepted it could have made it 
clear in its response that it couldnt accept his transfer and sale instructions until the account 
had been opened and J shares lodged. And it credited his account with £50 by way of an 
apology. Whilst it may have been helpful, in HLAMs words, to give a more direct response, 
Ive already explained why Im satisfied that HLAM had set out its requirements reasonably 
clearly in the November phone call and follow up message. So Mr C shouldve reasonably 
known HLAM couldnt act on this instruction. I think the £50 gesture of goodwill is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and I dont require HLAM to do anything more.
HLAM told us it can pay the £50 to Mr C if he would prefer it not to remain in his loyalty 
bonus account. Mr C should contact HLAM direct if he wants to arrange this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman