DRN-3588712
The complaint
Mr Ps complained about the amount of compensation he was offered by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays) when a cheque paid into his account was returned as it was illegible.
What happened
Mr P paid a cheque for a substantial sum into his bank account.  The amount was credited to 
his account.  But, when Mr P checked the next day, he found the credit had been reversed.  
When he contacted Barclays to find out what had happened, Barclays told him the cheque 
details were illegible.  After some persistence, Mr P established it was illegible because 
Barclays scanner had stretched the cheque image, so key details couldnt be read.
Barclays said they couldnt re-present the cheque.  So they suggested Mr P contact the 
person who wrote it and ask them to provide a new one.  Mr P says, because of the 
commitments hed made in expectation of receiving the money, he made a 20 mile round trip 
to collect a fresh cheque.  
He paid in the second cheque the day after the credit was reversed.  The second deposit 
was successful.
Mr P complained to Barclays about what had happened.  Barclays investigated and wrote to 
Mr P with their response.  They enclosed a photocopy of the cheque.
Barclays acknowledged the cheque was returned due to a processing error by their staff.  
They apologised for this and offered Mr P £100 compensation, which he declined.  Barclays 
increased their offer to £110 after Mr P called them because hed not received their 
complaint response and was kept on hold for over an hour.  
Mr P also rejected the increased offer and brought his complaint to our service.  He told us 
the mistake had caused frustration, embarrassment, and inconvenience because of what he 
had to do to get another cheque and to chase up a response to his complaint.   He didnt 
think a payment of £110 adequately recognised this.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Barclays didnt need to offer any 
more to resolve it.  They said £110 was in line with what they would have recommended 
Barclays pay for the mistakes theyd made.  And all correspondence was correctly 
addressed, so they couldnt hold Barclays responsible for Mr P not receiving the complaint 
response.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that Im upholding Mr Ps complaint.  But Im not directing Barclays to pay him 
any more than the £110 compensation theyve already offered.  Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the scan and I agree its not possible to read key details, such as the 
amount.  Both parties agree that was Barclays fault, as there was a scanning error.  So Ive 
focused on how much compensation Mr P should receive for that error and its 
consequences.
I cant comment on Barclays processes.  So, while I know Mr P is unhappy they couldnt re-
scan the original cheque, I cant say Barclays were wrong to conclude they couldnt do that.  
But that did inconvenience Mr P.
Ive thought carefully about the extent of that inconvenience.  Mr P became aware the credit 
had been reversed the day after he paid in the cheque.  So, although he complained to our 
investigator that Barclays wrote to him about the unpaid cheque - rather than using a faster 
medium, such as email  Im satisfied that didnt add to Mr Ps inconvenience, because he 
already knew what had happened and could do what he had to do to put matters right.
Mr P visited the person whod written the cheque to get a new one, which was then credited 
to his account two days after his original deposit.  So the impact of the scanning error was 
two days long.
I appreciate the extra travel and interaction with the cheque writer was inconvenient and 
embarrassing for Mr P.  But when the investigator asked about what was involved, he 
mentioned a few miles to collect the cheque and a 20 mile round trip to the branch to 
deposit it.  Im satisfied that would have left him only a few pounds out of pocket.  Mr P 
hasnt provided any evidence to persuade me it was anything more.  
So I think £100 compensation is reasonable for this  as is the additional £10 Barclays 
offered Mr P for having to make a lengthy call to find out why hed not received a written 
response to his complaint.  Im satisfied the letter was sent to him promptly and was correctly 
addressed.  I cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr P not receiving it through the post. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and deciding they should pay him the £110 compensation theyve previously offered to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman