DRN-4111986
The complaint
Mr N complains that Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr N opened a credit card account with an initial credit limit of £6000.
Mr N complained that M&S had lent to him irresponsibly. He said that if M&S had carried out 
proper affordability checks it wouldve seen that he couldnt afford the credit card.
M&S didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out the necessary checks before it lent 
to Mr N and that it was satisfied that the credit was affordable for him.
Mr N remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that M&S had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Mr N didnt agree. He said M&S shouldve considered the total amount of credit available to 
him and the fact that he was using his overdraft facility on his current account in the period 
leading up to the application for the credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ns complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that M&S had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr N could afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable 
way. These checks needed to be borrower focussed. Whats considered reasonable and 
proportionate will depend on various factors such as the amount of credit, the amount of 
repayments and the customers circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when considering whats reasonable and proportionate.
M&S used the information Mr N had provided about his income and expenditure. It also 
obtained information from credit reference agencies. These checks showed that Mr N had 
net monthly income of £1700 with monthly outgoings of £1048 leaving disposable income of 
£652.
The checks also showed that Mr N had other consumer credit debt of around £6400. The 
credit checks showed no adverse information.
Mr N told M&S that he intended to use the card for a balance transfer of £6000. The 
information obtained by M&S showed that the balance to be transferred was almost all of Mr 
Ns other consumer credit debt.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that M&S carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks. I dont think there was anything in the information gathered by M&S which wouldve 
given it cause for concern or necessitated further checks.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
The information gathered by M&S showed that Mr N had monthly disposable income of 
£652.
I appreciate that Mr N has said that his current account was in overdraft at the time he 
applied for the credit card and that he had around £6000 of other consumer credit 
commitments. M&S took Mr Ns other credit commitments into account when it calculated Mr 
Ns disposable income, and also took into account what Mr Ns credit repayments would be if 
he utilised all of his existing credit facilities. Even after allowing for this, Mr Ns disposable 
income was enough to cover the repayments on the credit card.
I understand that Mr Ns bank account was regularly in overdraft. However, I dont think this 
of itself wouldve been a reason for M&S not to lend to Mr N when considered together with 
all the other information.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think theres anything in the information 
gathered by M&S to indicate that the credit wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr N.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think M&S lent irresponsibly to Mr N.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman