DRN-3854379
The complaint
Mr W complains due to online banking issues with TSB Bank plc (TSB), he suffered stress, 
inconvenience and loss of earnings which he wants to be compensated for.  
What happened
On 29 July 2022, TSB experienced problems with their online banking service. As a result, 
Mr W was unable to make payments which he says were urgent. He said he had to take a 
day off work to try to resolve the issue and when he tried to call TSB, he was unable to 
speak to anybody. He also sent them emails. The payments were eventually made later that 
day. He complained. 
TSB accepted there were issues with their online banking service. In relation to the emails 
sent by Mr W, they said they were unable to locate his account based on the details he 
provided and that led to some confusion. In recognition of the trouble and upset caused, 
TSB paid him £35 compensation. They said they would also consider costs such as 
telephone calls, fuel costs and parking if Mr W had visited a branch. However they said they 
wouldnt compensate him for loss of earnings.
Unhappy with their response, Mr W referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. They concluded the £35 compensation was 
reasonable given the circumstances. Mr W disagreed and maintained his position. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accept there were problems with TSBs online banking service meaning Mr W 
was unable to use it, that isnt in dispute. So what I must determine is whether TSB acted 
fairly and in line with the terms when considering the impact of the same on Mr W and 
whether theyve done enough to put things right. Having done so, I believe they have, Ill 
explain why. 
As a starting point, Ive referred to the terms. It says:
Were not responsible for losses caused by: 
 some unusual or unforeseeable things outside our control. These might be things like a 
strike or a technical breakdown 
 a legal or regulatory requirement causes us to break these terms and conditions. We also 
arent responsible for any business losses you suffer.
In this case, I find it fair to say the issues with the online banking service to be a technical 
breakdown. Therefore based on the above terms, TSB wont be liable for Mr Ws losses.
Mr W says he banks online frequently, it is his preferred method so I can understand by not 
being able to access it, it caused him frustration, inconvenience and upset especially as he 
says the payments were urgent. This can be seen by his emails to TSB and his attempts to 
call them. Its reasonable to assume given the issues, TSBs phone lines and branches were 
busier than usual as they tried to assist their customers.
Ive taken into account Mr Ws comments about his loss of earnings. Ive also considered the 
evidence by his employer. Hes explained he has to be at work by a set time and if hes not 
present, hes not able to enter thereafter. He also says hes unable to access the internet or 
phone while at work. As the payments were urgent, Mr W felt he had no alternative but to 
take a day off work in order to make sure the payments were made that day. He believes 
TSB should compensate him for his loss of earnings but based on the above terms, I cant 
say they have acted unfairly by not agreeing to pay the same. 
Having considered the statements and TSBs records, I can see Mr W was able to 
successfully make several payments later that day with the last one being around 4.30pm. 
So it seems TSB were able to resolve the technical problems fairly quickly and on the same 
day, thereby minimising the impact and disruption. 
Nevertheless, TSB acknowledge the situation caused inconvenience and upset. They also 
say due to the limited information provided by Mr W in his emails, they were unable to 
initially locate his account. In recognition of the same, theyve paid £35 compensation. They 
also said upon proof of evidence, they would be willing to consider expenses such as 
telephone costs as a result of Mr W trying to contact them or parking costs if he visited a 
branch on that day, I find this reasonable.
Whilst I understand the impact this event had on Mr W personally, I find TSBs payment of 
£35 compensation a fair reflection of the inconvenience and worry caused, based on the 
time the online banking service wasnt available. I wont be asking them to do anything 
further to settle this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman