DRN-3038590
The complaint
Mr H and Miss W complain that Nationwide Building Society has failed to pay them an
account referral payment.
What happened
Mr H and Miss W say they complied with Nationwides requirements for an account referral
payment. Miss W says she was given 90 days to complete an account switch which expired
on 15 March 2020. She says she completed the switch application on 8 March 2020, and it
wasnt her fault Nationwide completed the switch after the expiry date. Miss W says she
would like the £100 payment.
Nationwide says Miss W had 90 days to complete the account switch but says it makes clear
in the switch terms and conditions that an account switch takes seven working days to
complete. Nationwide says it started the process on 9 March 2020 and completed it on 17
March 2020 and so hasnt made a mistake.
Mr H and Miss W brought the complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator
thought Miss W had complied with the 90-day rule and that it wasnt her fault Nationwide
hadnt processed it in time. The investigator also thought there wasnt any mention of
weekends or bank holidays in those terms and conditions.
Nationwide doesnt accept that view and says the full switch wasnt completed in 90 days
and it does make clear that seven working days are needed to complete a switch.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and came to the provisional view that 
Nationwide acted in line with the switch payment terms and conditions and hadnt made a 
mistake or acted unfairly.
I looked carefully at Nationwides switch offer terms and conditions which I thought Miss
W would have agreed to. Those terms and conditions say that the full switch must be
completed within 90 days and that a switch, when started takes seven working days. I didnt
think it clear why Miss W waited until the end of that period to start the process.
I said there was no dispute here that Miss W started the account switch process on 8 March 
2020 which was a Sunday and so not a working day. Nationwide started its part of the switch   
on 9 March 2020 which was a working day and completed it on 17 March 2020 which was
within the seven working day period. So, I was satisfied that Nationwide made that condition
clear in the terms and conditions and didnt make a mistake or act unfairly by deciding Miss
W hadnt completed the switch by 15 March 2020. It follows that I didnt think Nationwide
made a mistake by refusing to pay the switch incentive of £100.
I appreciated the investigator said there was no specific mention in the switch terms and
conditions about weekends and bank holidays. But I was satisfied there was clear mention of 
the process taking seven working days and thought it ought reasonably to have been clear 
that working days do not include weekends.
I didnt think it clear why Nationwide says Miss W could select the switch day and I hoped it
could explain what it meant. And or if Miss W had selected for example 14 March 2020 to
complete the switch it could have been completed by that day if it was started on 8 March
2020.
Overall my provisional view was that Nationwide acted in line with its account terms and
conditions. I appreciated Miss W may not have realised that the process took seven working
days and by starting it as late as she did, meant it couldnt be completed in time. But I 
couldnt fairly hold Nationwide responsible for that.
Mr H and Miss W havent responded to my provisional decision.
Nationwide has replied and explained that the switch couldnt be completed in time due to it 
being started too late.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same decision I reached in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman