DRN-2267396
The complaint
Mr E complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter Partner) unfairly declined to cover a
claim he made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E has a legal expenses insurance policy provided by Inter Partner as part of a home
insurance policy. He purchased a property and during the course of the purchase hed
appointed a surveyor to assess the property.
After purchasing the property, Mr E became aware that many aspects of the survey were
apparently inaccurate and the value of the property was significantly lower than the survey
had suggested and that hed paid.
Mr E wanted to take legal action against the surveyors company, and approached Inter
Partner to make a claim on the legal expenses insurance. It said that the circumstances as
described werent covered by the policy.
As Mr E was unhappy with this response, he complained to Inter Partner and then to our
service. Our investigator didnt think Inter Partner had done anything wrong. He thought that
the policy terms and conditions excluded a claim of the sort made by Mr E.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He argues that the
dispute is about a breach of contract, and that the policy terms and conditions are
ambiguous, and so should be interpreted in such a way as to mean his claim should be
covered.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Mr Es policy has cover for costs to pursue a legal action following a breach of contract for
buying or renting goods or services. Mr Es argument is that his dispute with the surveyor is
that the surveyor breached the contract hed entered into with them as he alleges that the
surveyor didnt carry out their duties professionally and diligently. So on the face of it, a claim
for costs of pursuing a legal action against the surveyor would be covered, unless an
exclusion in the policy applies. The policys terms and conditions state:
There is no cover for any claim directly or indirectly arising from professional negligence in
relation to services provided in connection with a matter not covered under this insurance.
Inter Partner initially raised a number of exclusions which were stated in the policy, but its
this one that its now relying on to decline cover for the claim. When it explained its reasons
for declining the claim in its final response to his complaint, Inter Partner said that the
intention of the policy is only to cover professional negligence claims where the negligence
arises from the solicitors handling of another matter that we are covering under the policy.
Therefore, we will not cover anything to do with professional negligence unless that
negligence is alleged in connection with the handling of a case by solicitors which we are
funding following a claim under our insurance.
Mr Es position is that he alleges that the surveyor breached the contract he had with them to
carry out a diligent and thorough survey. The policy says it will cover costs to pursue a legal
action following a breach of a contract you have for buying or renting goods or services for
your private use. He says that the exclusion above is unclear.
I do find myself in agreement with Mr E that the exclusion that is being relied on here is
unclear. If the intention was to limit claims for professional negligence where the negligence
arose from the handling of a matter which was being covered under the policy, then the
terms and conditions could have stated this explicitly. So Im not satisfied that its fair for
Inter Partner to rely on this exclusion and decline the claim.
As Im satisfied that the exclusion which Inter Partner seeks to rely on shouldnt apply here, I
dont think it was reasonable for it to decline Mr Es claim. It should consider his claim
further, in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
The response to my provisional decision
Both Mr E and Inter Partner responded to my provisional decision. Both said they had no 
further points to make in light of the provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While both parties have said they had no further points to make, so there are no further 
arguments or evidence that I need to consider, I have looked again at everything that was 
provided before I made my provisional decision. Having done so, I remain satisfied that what 
Id outlined remains a fair and reasonable outcome.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. To put things right, Inter Partner Assistance 
SA must consider Mr Es claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman