DRN-3402673
The complaint
Mr R1 and Mr R2 complain that their bridging loan with West One Loan Limited was mis-sold 
to them as it was set up as an unregulated loan, and they think it should have been 
regulated. Weve communicated with Mr R1 throughout.
What happened
In 2017, Mr R1 and Mr R2 took out a second charge bridging loan of £237,000 with 
West One via a broker, originally over a term of 18 months. The bridging loan was taken out 
to consolidate an existing secured business loan Mr R1 and Mr R2 had, and to allow them to 
raise further funds for their business, a partnership.
In 2019, when the original term ended, the facility was extended by four months.
Unfortunately, Mr R1 and Mr R2 were unable to repay the balance at the end of the 
extended term. Ultimately, West One obtained a possession order via court action, and have 
made arrangements to sell the property.
Mr R1 complained. He said that changes to regulation in 2016 mean that the bridging loan 
could have been set up as a regulated mortgage contract, as it was secured against their 
home. Had it been treated as regulated, West One would not have met the requirements for 
lending. For that reason, Mr R1 and Mr R2 think the bridging loan was mis-sold.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He thought that, based on the relevant 
regulations, Mr R1 and Mr R2s loan was excluded from the definition of a regulated 
mortgage contract. So he thought it was reasonable the loan had been set up as 
unregulated. Mr R1 disagreed, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The loan was taken out via a broker. So that broker is responsible for any advice given to 
Mr R1 and Mr R2. West One is responsible for its decision to lend, and to lend on an 
unregulated basis.
Mr R1 has made lengthy and detailed submissions explaining why he considers that this is  
or ought to be  a regulated mortgage. So Ill first deal with that and explain why I dont 
agree.
Mr R1 has referred to MCOB 1.6, which explains, in summary, that:
MCOB applies to regulated mortgage contracts;
Firms should establish whether or not a mortgage is regulated before entering into 
the agreement; and
That an agreement is a regulated mortgage contract where it meets the definition of 
one, even where a firm entered into it as an unregulated mortgage contract.
Mr R1 has cited a number of provisions in the PERG section of the regulators handbook, 
which came into force in 2016 following the Mortgage Credit Directive (MCD), to explain why 
he thinks the bridging loan could (and should) have been regulated under MCOB (the 
regulation for mortgages).
PERG 4.4.1G states:
Article 61(3)(a) of the Regulated Activities Order defines a regulated mortgage 
contract as a contract which, at the time it is entered into, satisfies the following 
conditions: 
(1) the contract is one where a lender provides credit to an individual or trustees (the 
'borrower');
(2) the contract provides for the obligation of the borrower to repay to be secured by 
a mortgage on land, where land for this purpose means:
(a) in relation to a contract entered into before IP completion day, land in the 
United Kingdom or, if the contract was entered into on or after 21 March 
2016, within the territory of an EEA State; and 
(b) in relation to a contract entered into on or after IP completion day, land in 
the United Kingdom; and
(3) at least 40% of that land is used, or is intended to be used, as or in connection 
with a dwelling.
Its not in dispute that Mr R1 and Mr R2s loan meets these requirements. They took out the 
bridging loan in their names as individuals, it was taken out after 21 March 2016, and its 
secured by a mortgage against their home. 
Mr R1 has gone on to cite several provisions, which Ive summarised as follows:
PERG 4.4.2, which explains that a company borrowing funds secured against a 
property it owns would not be covered by the regulation, However, if the lender 
makes a loan for business purposes to an individual sole trader, or (in England and 
Wales) a partnership, and the loan is secured on the borrower's house or houses, the 
contract will be a regulated mortgage contract.
PERG 4.4.6, which reaffirms that properties where at least 40% of the land is being 
used as or in connection with a dwelling will be covered by the regulation;
PERG 4.4.10, which states the purpose of the loan is irrelevant to whether or not it 
falls under the regulation;
PERG 4.4.11, which states that the regulation covers a number of different 
agreement types, including bridging loans; and
PERG 4.4.15, which states that a loan may be a regulated mortgage contract where 
secured by first, second, or subsequent charge.
Its not in dispute that Mr R1 and Mr R2 took out the bridging loan for business purposes. The application states the funds were to be used to consolidate an existing commercial loan, 
to finance a planning application, and to provide short term working capital. It says the 
bridging loan would be repaid by the sale of property, and the intent was to develop 11 units 
with a value of around £2.5 million.
Under PERG 4.4.1-A:
A contract is not a regulated mortgage contract if it is:
(1) a loan to a commercial borrower excluded under PERG 4.4.17 G or PERG 4.4.21 G;
PERG 4.4.21G states:
There is also an exclusion for loans to commercial borrowers secured by a second or 
subsequent security. A contract is excluded from the definition of regulated mortgage 
contract if, at the time it is entered into, it meets the following conditions:
(1) it meets the conditions in PERG 4.4.1G (1) to (3); and
(2) the lender provides the borrower with credit exceeding £25,000; and
(3) the mortgage ranks in priority behind one or more other mortgages affecting the land in 
question; and
(4) the agreement is entered into by the borrower wholly or predominantly for the purposes 
of a business carried on, or intended to be carried on, by the borrower.
As Ive outlined above, the bridging loan meets the requirements in PERG 4.4.1G (1) to (3). 
It was for more than £25,000. It was a second charge  as Mr R1 and Mr R2 held a first 
charge mortgage with a different lender. Mr R1 and Mr R2 entered into the bridging loan for 
business purposes. So the bridging loan meets the conditions in PERG 4.4.21G.
Mr R1 has said he doesnt think PERG 4.4.21G can apply as a commercial borrower 
cannot occupy residential property on which the loan is secured  by definition, it cannot be 
both commercial and residential. 
I understand why Mr R1 thinks this is the case, given what Ive outlined above about the 
provisions in PERG. However, I dont think hes right about that. Commercial borrower is 
not a specific term defined in the glossary, so those words have their normal English 
meaning. I think commercial borrower in this context means a borrower taking out a loan 
for business purposes. The paragraph says there is an exemption for commercial 
borrowers, and then goes on to define when that exemption applies. 
Whether the loan is secured on a residence is not relevant; what matters is the purpose of 
the loan. If the loan was not secured on a residence, it would not meet the conditions in 
PERG 4.4.1G (1) to (3) in any case  so the rest of the test for exclusion would not be 
needed. The fact that loans that meet 4.4.1G (1) to (3) are included makes it clear, to my 
mind, that this is an exemption for loans secured on residential property  and therefore 
Mr R1 is not correct. PERG 4.4.21 explicitly excludes any agreements for over £25,000 
secured by second or subsequent charge entered into for business purposes where those 
loans are secured over residential property. 
Ive set out my thoughts above based on what PERG says, because Mr R1 has focussed his 
arguments on PERG. But in doing so I have borne in mind that PERG itself is not law; it is 
the FCAs guidance (PERG stands for Perimeter Guidance Manual) on the regulatory 
boundaries. But the actual boundaries are set by the Financial Services and Markets Act 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 as amended. Im satisfied, however, that the conclusions I 
have drawn from the guidance in PERG reflect the legal position as set out in the Order.For the reasons Ive explained, I think it was reasonable that West One set up the loan on an 
unregulated basis. It couldnt have been regulated, as it met the conditions in PERG 4.4.21G 
 in that it was secured on residential property by way of second charge, was for more than 
£25,000 and the purpose of the lending was for a business - and so the loan is excluded 
from the definition of a regulated mortgage contract.
Mr R1 has also said he thinks the bridging loan should have been regulated as the MCD 
brought all second charge secured loans under mortgage regulation, where theyd previously 
been regulated under the Consumer Credit Act (2006) (CCA).
Mr R1 is correct in saying that the MCD brought CCA regulated second charges under the 
same regulation as first charge mortgages, MCOB. But that only applied to loans that existed 
at the time of the change, in March 2016. Loans which were previously regulated under the 
CCA became regulated mortgage contracts from then on. That doesnt apply here, since this 
loan did not exist in March 2016. Its regulatory status is determined by the law in force at the 
time it was taken out in 2017  and, as Ive set out above, it was and should have been an 
unregulated loan. And in any case, there was a similar exclusion for second charge loans 
over £25,000 for business purposes in the CCA.
The loan facility letter included a declaration which Mr R1 and Mr R2 signed to say they were 
entering the facility wholly or predominantly for business purposes, and they understood they 
would not have the benefit of the protection and remedies that would be available to [them] 
under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 or the Financial Services and Markets 
The Mortgage Credit Directive Order 2015 or under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 if this 
agreement were a regulated agreement under those Acts.
I see that Mr R1 and Mr R2 took legal advice before deciding to take out the loan, from their 
own solicitors. The solicitors wrote to West One to confirm that they had explained to Mr R1 
and Mr R2 that the loan wasnt regulated by the CCA and was not a regulated mortgage 
contract, and so the protection conferred on the borrowers under a regulated mortgage 
contract are not available in this case. 
I think West One took reasonable steps to make it clear to Mr R1 and Mr R2 that the bridging 
loan was unregulated, and to satisfy itself that they were reasonably aware of what that 
meant. It was up to Mr R1 and Mr R2 if they wanted to proceed to take out the loan on that 
basis.
Mr R1 and Mr R2 were unable to repay the capital at the end of the bridging loan term, and it 
seems it is this that has prompted their complaint. They believe that the mortgage was 
mis-sold to them, because it should have been treated as a regulated mortgage  and if it 
had been, the safeguards that come with regulation would have been in place, a regulated 
mortgage affordability assessment would have been done, and they would never have been 
sold this loan.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied this bridging loan is and always was 
unregulated, and I think it was reasonable for West One to set up the loan on that basis. I 
dont therefore think it was mis-sold simply because it was sold as an unregulated loan. Ive 
then gone on to think about whether it was mis-sold because it wasnt the right loan for Mr 
R1 and Mr R2 to have taken.
Ive seen no evidence that West One gave Mr R1 and Mr R2 any advice about whether or 
not to take the loan out. I think it gave enough information to Mr R1 and Mr R2 for them to 
make an informed decision about whether or not they wanted to proceed with the loan on 
that basis, and took reasonable steps to ensure Mr R1 and Mr R2 understood what that 
meant. Mr R1 and Mr R2 were business people borrowing money for business purposes  and as such ought reasonably to have been expected to judge whether this loan was 
appropriate for their business needs.
Im also satisfied that it undertook the sorts of checks I would expect a lender to have 
undertaken before agreeing a loan of this nature. West One checked their credit histories, 
and noted the financial information they gave on the application form. It noted the purpose 
for which they wanted the finance, and that they planned to repay it through selling the 
property. I dont think the lending decision was unreasonable given the nature of the loan 
and what was said at the time and  as an unregulated loan for commercial purposes  I 
dont think it was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R1 and Mr R2 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman