DRN-3273990
The complaint
Mr M complains that due to failings by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
(HL) he was unable to place trades in his stocks and shares Individual Savings Account 
(ISA) and Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) on its platform. Mr M says he has lost out 
financially as, on several occasions, he wasnt able to trade.
Mr M also complains about problems he experienced when HL did not update his accounts 
promptly after a share split.
What happened
I understand that Mr Ms complaint relates to two separate incidents when he was unable to 
trade:
- On 9 November 2020 Mr M tried to sell stocks, but Mr M says HLs platform froze. 
Mr M says he was able to sell the stock the following day, but the price he achieved 
was lower than it had been on the previous day.
- Mr M held shares in Sellas Life Sciences (SLS), a NASDAQ listed stock. On 10 
December 2020 he tried to sell his holding online but was unable to get a live price. 
Mr M says he also tried to call HL to place the trade but was unable to get through. 
The following day Mr M called and emailed HL and says he was, eventually, able to 
sell the stock. However, by the time he was able to trade, Mr M says the price had 
fallen significantly.
Mr M also complains that following a stock split of Tesla and Apple stock HL did not update 
his SIPP and ISA accounts promptly. Mr M says that as a result he lost track of his accounts 
and this cost him several thousand pounds.
To put things right Mr M wants HL to compensate him for the losses he has suffered as a 
result of being unable to trade promptly and the losses he suffered when he lost track of his 
account due to incorrect information being provided.
Background
Mr M complained to HL about the problems he had experienced. It apologised for the 
inconvenience he had suffered but it said its terms and conditions set out that it did not 
guarantee that its platform would always be available and without any delay. It also 
explained that the lack of a live price for the SLS stock wasnt something it could control. 
And it said it had promptly corrected the average cost price showing on Mr Ms accounts 
after the Tesla and Apple stock splits.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with HLs response and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues raised but said she didnt think Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld.
She noted that on 9 November 2020 (following the US Presidential election results and an 
announcement on the first Covid-19 vaccine), market volumes were higher than usual. HL 
explained that its platform had received very high volumes of traffic, as many more clients 
than usual were accessing the site and placing trades. This increased demand meant that 
some clients had difficulty accessing their accounts. HL also said it had experienced issues 
with the live pricing displayed on its website and this impacted customers ability to place 
trades online.
But it referred to its Terms of Use document. Section 10 set out:
We do not guarantee that our website (or any of the content on it) will always be available or 
uninterrupted, and we cannot guarantee that access to the website will be available at all 
time without delay.
Occasionally, we may need to suspend the provision of our website and online services to 
maintain or upgrade our systems. We will not be liable to you if our systems or services are 
unavailable to you for trading or information purposes for whatever reason.
Our investigator said she accepted that HL was required to have sufficiently robust systems 
in place to withstand high demand. But, as HLs terms and conditions set out, this wasnt 
something it could guarantee at all times and in all market conditions.
In view of the surge in demand on HLs platform on 9 November 2020 she said she didnt 
think it was unreasonable for it to say that its platform had struggled to cope with the 
demand. And as its terms and conditions clearly set out that it could not guarantee access to 
its site at all times, without delay, she said she was satisfied that HL had acted within the 
terms of the account.
SLS
I understand that Mr M wanted to sell his SLS stock as the price spiked higher shortly after 
he had bought it. Mr M says he spent several hours trying to sell the shares online and he 
also telephoned HL to place the trade but couldnt get through until the next day. By this time 
the stock price had fallen. Mr M says he suffered a significant loss as he wasnt able to sell 
the stock promptly.
Our investigator noted that Mr M was unable to place the trade and received an error 
message saying no live prices were available. She explained that this was because no 
quotes were available from HLs panel of market makers. She said this wasnt due to a 
problem with HLs platform, but because its market counterparties were not making 
electronic quotes available at the times Mr M was attempting to trade. HL said this was due 
to volatile market conditions in the stock, rather than any system issues. In view of this our 
investigator said she was satisfied that HL wasnt responsible for the problems Mr M 
experienced when he tried to sell his SLS holding.
She noted Mr M said he had unsuccessfully tried to place fill or kill orders. But she said that, 
in-line with HLs Order Handling Policy as the orders could not be filled, they were cancelled. 
As this was the case, she said she didnt think HL had acted incorrectly when it cancelled the 
orders that were not fulfilled.
Tesla / Apple stock split
Mr M said he felt he had lost about £4,000 in trading profits because HLs system didnt 
update for several days after the Tesla and Apple stock splits. Mr M explained that he had 
expected that the stock price would drop following the stock splits, so wanted to sell ahead of any price fall, but as HL did not update his SIPP and ISA accounts promptly after the 
stock splits he lost track of his holdings.
HL accepted that following the stock splits there were some issues for clients who had 
purchased stock between the ex-date and the release of the new shares on 3 September 
2020, which affected the average cost prices displayed on some accounts. It said the 
incorrect prices were corrected by 4 September 2020. And it said this issue didnt affect 
Mr Ms ability to trade.
Our investigator said she appreciated Mr M felt he had lost track of his holdings as incorrect 
cost price information was displayed on his accounts. But she said when Mr M wanted to 
trade the stocks in question he would have had to request a quote from the market and 
would have been quoted the current offer price at that time.
She said her view was that even if the cost price showing on his accounts was incorrect, the 
prices quoted when Mr M sold the stock on 31 August and 3 September was the price he 
accepted. If he felt the price was too low, he could have chosen not to go ahead with the 
trades. As this was the case, she said that even though she accepted it was frustrating that 
the cost prices on his accounts for his Apple and Tesla holdings were incorrect for a short 
period of time, she couldnt reasonably find that this had caused Mr M any financial loss.
Mr M did not accept our investigators view. He said he couldnt understand how she could 
say HL was not at fault as he felt the evidence was overwhelming. He said he didnt think it 
was fair for HL to pass the blame to a third party and he said he had not experienced 
similar problems with another trading platform he uses.
He said he felt the service HL had provided had been unreliable and it should have been 
able to cope with high demand. He said he felt this was particularly the case as HL charged 
a lot for its service. Mr M said it was particularly worrying and frustrating that when he 
experienced problems with the platform, he couldnt get through to speak to anyone at HL.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ms position and I have very carefully considered all the points he 
has made.
Having done so, although I do understand Mr Ms strength of feeling on this matter I cant 
reasonably require HL to compensate him for any losses he may have suffered as a result of 
being unable to place the trades he wanted at the time he wanted. Ill explain why.
9 November 2020
As our investigator explained, trading volumes were much higher than usual on Monday 9 
November 2020 as many investors adjusted their holdings in light of the US Presidential 
election and the positive news about the first Covid-19 vaccine trial. 
I appreciate it must have been very frustrating for Mr M not to have been able to trade.
As HL has explained, it invests heavily in its online services. But it would be unreasonable 
for me to expect HL to have the infrastructure in place to cope with such an unusually high 
demand from its users. It wouldnt necessarily be commercially practicable given the uniqueness of the situation which led to such a high volume of investors wanting to access 
its service.
I must also take into account that this scenario is covered in HLs terms of service and it 
clearly set out that it couldnt guarantee that access to, or trading in, accounts would always 
be available or be available without delay. It said that it, 
 cannot guarantee that access to, or trading in, your Accounts via the HL Website, HL 
Mobile Application, by telephone or by post will be available at all times or without delay. You 
acknowledge that the HL Service may be interrupted and the services available may be 
variable in certain circumstances.
In view of this, I cant reasonably say that the interruption to HLs service was unreasonable 
in the unprecedented circumstances.
Trading SLS stock 
As our investigator explained, the problems Mr M experienced when he tried to sell his SLS 
stock were not due to any problems with HLs platform. It was not possible for Mr M to sell 
the stock when he wanted to because the market makers on HLs panel were not returning 
quotes for the trade Mr M wanted to place. This was not due to a systems issue with HLs 
platform. HL is a broker, not a market maker, and cannot require a market maker to return a 
quote for a particular trade.
I do understand Mr Ms frustration at not being able to trade when the stock price spiked 
higher, but HL couldnt require the market makers on its panel to provide a quote. I can see 
that the stock price was particularly volatile when Mr M was trying to place the trades, and it 
appears this is why market makers were not willing to return quotes at that time.
I note Mr M has said he uses an app which shows live prices, so he felt the prices would 
have been available to HL. But as I have explained, market makers arent obliged to provide 
a quote. 
Likewise, when Mr M placed fill or kill orders these werent fulfilled because the price set 
wasnt available at that time. I do understand Mr Ms frustration, but I am satisfied that the 
orders were cancelled in line with HLs Order Handling Policy and it didnt give any 
guarantee that the orders would be filled.
Tesla / Apple stock split
I appreciate that Mr M says he lost track of his accounts when HL did not update the 
average cost price immediately following the stock splits. However, I am mindful that the 
issue was corrected promptly, and I am satisfied that despite the incorrect average cost 
information displayed on Mr Ms SIPP and ISA accounts the trades he placed in the stocks 
were not impacted. If Mr M hadnt wanted to accept the prices offered, he was free not to 
have proceeded with the trades.
I dont think it would be reasonable to require HL to compensate Mr H for any shortfall in the 
gain he expected to make when he traded these stocks.
Having very carefully considered the points Mr M has raised I cant reasonably find that HL 
has acted incorrectly or unfairly. As this is the case, I cannot uphold this complaint. I have 
also considered the problems Mr M had contacting HL by phone, but Im satisfied the terms 
of the trading account clearly set out the limitations of the service it can provide. My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman