DRN-3587816
The complaint
Mr M complains about his Contract for Differences (CFD) trading account with Trading 212 
UK Limited (T212). He says T212 incorrectly closed one of the positions he held which not 
only crystallised a magnified loss, but also impacted eight other positions he had open.
What happened
On 15 January 2021, T212 closed one of Mr Ms positions in a company I will call A due to 
margin requirement. However, T212 had received an incorrect quote for A  though it 
appeared As price was €0.12, it was in fact closer to €0.45. 
Mr M had opened his position around €0.59 so it was running against him, but his losses had 
been exacerbated from around €163 to €558. As he didnt have the margin to fund the larger 
loss, his position in A was closed out. A further eight positions in a company I will call B were 
closed too  six at a profit and two at a loss.
Later that day Mr M got in touch with T212 and us as he noticed the incorrect quote for A. 
Having looked at what had happened, T212 put €394.80 into his account which was the 
difference in the incorrect quote of €0.12 and what they said the correct sell price was at the 
time, €0.45. 
T212 later looked into Mr Ms complaint and offered him a further €100 as they recognised 
the knock on effect to his positions in B  this covered the losses Mr M had crystallised on 
two positions which totalled €44.66, meaning the remaining €55.34 was for the 
inconvenience hed suffered. Mr M initially wasnt happy with this, but in September 2021 he 
decided to accept the additional €100. 
Thereafter, one of our investigators looked into the complaint  he agreed that something 
had gone wrong given the erroneous quote for A, but thought T212 had done enough to put 
things right given the compensation theyd paid. 
Mr M remained concerned about whatd happened and worried about how easily pricing 
errors could occur without either party realising. He also felt T212 had only compensated 
him because hed notified the regulator about what had happened. Our investigator thought 
about what had been said but remained of the view T212 had done enough to put things 
right. 
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. After reviewing 
what had happened, we asked T212 for some further detail around the prices of A on the 
day in question and to explore the possibility that Mr M might not have made a loss on the 
trade. Having considered our questions, T212 made a further offer of €108 to settle the 
complaint as this would effectively cancel out Mr Ms trade in A. We put that offer to Mr M to 
get his thoughts, and he said, in summary:
He felt T212 were cheating people within the UK and abroad  hed dealt with T212 
in the UK as he thought financial institutions in this country would be honest, but hed 
had a negative experience  he thought they ought to be punished
He wanted us to check how many other investors had been cheated 
He incurred losses because T212 forcibly closed his positions
T212 also closed his account because hed come to our service and he felt his 
account should be reopened
Considering everything thatd happened, he should get a good amount of 
compensation from them
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that the price of €0.12 for A on 15 January 2021 was an incorrect quote. 
This error led to the wrongful closure of Mr Ms position and exaggerated his losses. So what 
we must consider is what impact this had on Mr M, and whether T212 have done enough to 
put things right. 
Initially, I have thought about the incorrect quote received. T212 have not been able to 
provide me with background information as to how and why they received such a quote from 
their provider. Theyre also no longer able to access tick data which might show the anomaly 
given a price for A is no longer offered. Despite this, I appreciate the fact that the price did 
report as €0.12 as this is what triggered Mr Ms margin call. 
T212 refunded Mr M with the difference between what his running loss ought to have been 
and what he did in fact lose. But its been difficult to confirm what the sell price ought to have 
been at the time and what happened to the price of A for the rest of the day. Although T212 
have explained that at the time, their spread was 5 cents with the correct buy and sell prices 
being €0.50 and €0.45 respectively, I remained concerned that without prices for the 
remainder of the day. 
Not knowing about the price of A later that day, and not knowing what Mr Ms margin 
position was and how it wouldve been affected means its difficult to establish what position 
Mr M ought to have been in, but for the incorrect quote  for example, how long he could 
have run his position if it continued to move against him, or whether the market began to 
move up and his loss became smaller, or even turned to profit. But as explained, having 
raised this with T212 they have now agreed to pay additional compensation of €108. 
Given Mr Ms loss in A was €558, the offer of €108 effectively cancels the position out given 
the €394.80 paid on the day and the €55.34 paid in September 2021. This means Mr Ms 
losses stemming from the erroneous quote  including those incurred on positions in B  
have been refunded by T212.
I think this is a fair outcome to Mr Ms complaint as we are not to know how the position in A 
would otherwise have performed but for the pricing issue  Mr M might have made a profit, 
but equally he might have made a loss. And indeed, from the limited records I can see from 
the time, it does appear the market moved against him in the days that followed. So Im 
satisfied that T212s offer to pay a further €108 and put him back into the position had the 
trade not occurred is a fair and reasonable way to resolve things. 
I recognise Mr Ms concerns about T212 stem further than the issue at the heart of this 
complaint, but Im not able to consider the wider concerns he has about T212 and their 
dealings with other clients  such complaints would be for those other clients to raise. Our 
service also isnt T212s regulator, so were not able to punish them for wider wrongdoing. 
Should Mr M remain concerned, he is welcome to refer the matter to the Financial Conduct 
Authority. But for clarity, I will say here that while T212 closed Mr Ms positions, they did so 
as a result of an incorrect price quote and because of that theyve offered to put things right. So, but for the offer they have now made, I dont think they need to do anything else to put 
things right. 
Lastly, I appreciate Mr M is unhappy with T212s decision to close his trading account, but as 
our investigator explained this isnt something weve been able to consider as part of this 
complaint. Should he wish, he remains welcome to raise the matter with T212 directly and 
ask for our help thereafter if needed. 
My final decision
As explained, Trading 212 UK Limited have made an offer to pay €108 to settle the 
complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Trading 212 UK Limited should pay Mr M €108.
Should Mr M accept my final decision and Trading 212 UK Limited not pay him within 28 
days of them being notified of his acceptance, I direct Trading 212 UK Limited to pay simple 
interest on any sum outstanding at a rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision until 
the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman