DRN-3879035
The complaint
Ms K complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) has refused to refund the money she has lost 
following her falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Ms K was contacted via social media by an individual I will call X. X provided Ms 
K with information about a potential investment opportunity in Bitcoin. X was very 
persuasive, and Ms K could see her other contacts on the social media platform had 
supported Xs claims. One of Ms Ks trusted contacts had even uploaded a video in support 
of the investment offered by X.
Ms K was advised she would have to make payments into the investment via the 
cryptocurrency exchange Moonpay. Its not clear how X was able to control Ms Ks Moonpay 
account but once the funds were transferred to the Moonpay account by Ms K, X took 
control and made payments from her Moonpay account to what turned out to be a fake 
investment.
Ms K made the following payments to Moonpay:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
3 April 2022 Moonpay £2,000.00 Transfer
3 April 2022 Moonpay £3,500.00 Transfer
4 April 2022 Moonpay £4,881.04 Transfer
4 April 2022 Moonpay £2,500.00 Transfer
6 April 2022 Moonpay £299.00 Transfer
6 April 2022 Moonpay £2,510.00 Debit Card
Ms K has told us that X disappeared before she had the chance to make a withdrawal from 
the investment and she has been unable to recover any of the payments she made.
Our Investigator considered Ms Ks complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. Ms K 
and Monzo both disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Ms K has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Ms K and Monzo sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
Monzo should refund the funds Ms K lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Ms K made
Ms K made payments into the scam via the methods of transfer and card payment.
For the payments Ms K made by transfer I have considered if Ms K should have received a 
refund under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But the CRM code only 
applies when domestic payments (as the result of a scam) are sent to another person. Here 
Ms K sent the payments to an account held in her own name with Moonpay, and the scam 
occurred when the purchased crypto was sent from that account to the scammer. Im 
satisfied the CRM code wouldnt apply in this scenario.
Monzo was unable to process a chargeback for the card payment Ms K made in relation to 
this scam to Moonpay.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Ms K was dealing with the scammer, which was the person that instigated the scam. But Ms 
K didnt make the debit card payment to the scammer directly, she paid a separate 
cryptocurrency exchange (Moonpay). This is important because Monzo was only able to 
process chargeback claims against the merchant she paid (Moonpay), not another party.
The service provided by Moonpay would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Ms Ks payment into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Moonpay provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Ms K paid. As Moonpay provided 
the requested service to Ms K any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
So, I am satisfied Monzo was unable to recover the payments Ms K made to Moonpay.
Should Monzo have reasonably prevented the payments Ms K made?
Ms K has accepted she authorised the payments that were made from her account with 
Monzo, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Ms K is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Monzo should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments from being made.
The first two payments Ms K made in relation to the scam to Moonpay were to a new payee, 
but I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say Monzo should step in every time one of 
its customers pays a new business, especially when the business appears to be legitimate. 
The individual payments were also below an amount I would expect to trigger Monzos fraud 
prevention systems. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that the first two payments Ms K 
made didnt trigger Monzos fraud prevention systems and that it didnt step in to speak to 
Ms K about the payments.On the 4th April 2022 Ms K made a further two payments into the scam of £4,881.04 and 
£2,500. While individually I do not consider these payments to be of a significantly high 
value, by the time the second payment was made Ms K had sent a total of over £5,000 to a 
new payee in the same day and paid a total amount of almost £13,000 in just two days. With 
the above in mind, I think Monzo should have stepped in when Ms K made the fourth 
payment into the scam of £2,000 and questioned Ms K about the payments she was making.
Had Monzo stepped in and had this conversation with Ms K I think it is likely Monzo would 
have uncovered a scam was taking place and been able to prevent Ms K incurring any 
further loss. Afterall, Monzo would have been aware of similar scams taking place around 
the same time. Monzo is therefore responsible for Ms Ks loss that occurred from the fourth 
payment onwards.
Did Ms K contribute to her loss?
While this was a sophisticated scam and Ms K was convinced it was a genuine investment, I 
still think Ms K should share the responsibility for her loss (50% of the payments made after 
the third payment into the scam). I say this because before Ms K made the payments into 
the scam a warning was presented stating:
Watch out for scams and fraudsters. Make sure that only you control the above wallet. If 
you did not set it up yourself, or have been given a wallet address to enter, you are likely 
being scammed. If you are being guided by a third party, or if someone else has access to 
your device, you are likely being scammed Learn more about scammers red flags here.
So even though X presented convincingly I think Ms K should have taken notice of the above 
warning and had she done so I think she could have potentially prevented the loss too. 
Putting things right
Ive explained why I think, if Monzo Bank Ltd had done what it reasonably ought to have 
done, Ms K would not have lost as much to this scam as she did.
Monzo Bank Ltd should therefore refund the payments Ms K made into the scam after the 
third payment (less 50%).
To compensate Ms K for having been deprived of this money, Monzo Bank Ltd should also 
pay Ms K interest on the loss.
As the funds came from a saving account, Monzo Bank Ltd should pay interest at the saving 
account rate of 2% gross (2.02% AER).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right be doing what Ive 
said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman