DRN-1741700
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with Interactive Investor Services Limited (ii) as they havent been able to 
provide him with a share certificate for one of his lines of stock.
What happened
In 2009, Mr T opened a share dealing account with a previous company. His account was 
later transferred to ii in 2017, but as he was unhappy with their fees he wanted to move his 
account elsewhere. There were some issues and delays with that  something that was 
dealt with under a prior complaint to our service  but one of the things ii needed to do to 
resolve matters was to arrange for Mr T to receive a share certificate for one of his holdings, 
in a company I will refer to as G. 
ii began the process of requesting a certificate for the G holding on 10 August 2018. But by 
January 2019, Mr T still hadnt received it. He raised this with ii and a number of months 
passed where they tried to get an update from Gs registrar. 
Mr Ts unhappiness was treated as a complaint and a final response letter was issued in 
October 2019. ii explained the situation in that the registrar had taken delivery of the G 
shares but had failed to issue the certificate  this was something outside of their control, but 
they continued to liaise with the registrar to get things sorted. 
Remaining unhappy with this, Mr T asked our service for help. In the meantime, ii continued 
to communicate with the registrar, ultimately questioning why the transfer was actioned if a 
certificate couldnt be provided, and asking that the shares were transferred back to their 
nominee account. ii also contacted the central securities depository to see what else they 
could do. 
The registrar explained G was suspended from the Alternative Investment Market in 2014, 
and the listing was cancelled in 2015. And that they were no longer Gs registrar so they 
couldnt do anything to help as their services for G had been suspended. 
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened but didnt agree ii had done 
anything wrong. Shed seen that ii asked the registrar for the certificate, but said they werent 
to know the registrar hadnt fulfilled the request. She noted that when ii found the registrar 
may have changed, they got in touch to see who else they needed to contact. While it had 
been some months without progress, she didnt think ii were at fault for what had happened 
 the actions of the registrar werent within their control and it wasnt something they knew to 
chase up on. 
Mr T didnt agree  he said hed paid ii to manage the transaction and his contract was with 
them, so it was their responsibility to provide him with the certificate as he shouldnt have to 
chase a third party. Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, so as no 
agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the timeline that a considerable period of time has passed here. Mr Ts 
certificate was requested in August 2018 and we are now two years on without any 
progress. While that is of course disappointing, Ive reviewed iis actions here and I dont 
think its something they are at fault for. Ill explain why.
It is my understanding that the mechanics required here were that:
ii were to offer Mr Ts G shares to the registrar
the registrar were to then take the stock from ii 
the registrar would then issue and post the share certificate to Mr T  something 
which on average takes two to three weeks
Applying these steps to what actually happened here:
ii created the stock withdrawal to certificate request on 10 August 2018  a 
screenshot of their internal system confirms this
the withdrawal was made and settled on 15 August 2018  again, a screenshot of 
their internal system confirms this
But the next step wasnt completed  the registrar didnt send Mr Ts certificate to him. 
Some months passed before this was followed up on. But this wasnt a matter for ii to have 
chased up  typically the registrar would send the certificate to the investor, so ii wouldnt 
have known whether it had been received or not. So I dont think there was any onus on 
them to have been pursuing the matter until Mr T raised it with them.
Ive had a look at some of the correspondence between ii and the registrar  in order to find 
a solution for Mr T, ii asked the registrar to return Mr Ts G shares so they could recredit 
them to his account. But the registrar has not complied  they explained that as they were no 
longer Gs registrar, they couldnt help. iis member of staff asked why the registrar took 
ownership of the G shares if they were not in a position to generate a certificate. But I can 
see registrar have not been forthcoming with any reason or remedy for this. 
Taking everything into account, ii did what they needed to do here  they began the transfer 
of Mr Ts G holding. But thereafter, for whatever reason, the registrar didnt provide the 
certificate. This isnt a shortcoming of iis  its simply not something within their control. But 
in saying that, Id like to make it clear that complaint is against ii, not the registrar, so I can 
make no finding on the registrars actions here.
Ive thought carefully about whats happened but dont think ii can do any more to help Mr T 
with this  I appreciate he feels they ought to be the ones to liaise with the registrar, but I can 
assure him that I have seen they have tried. So I cant say they need to take any further 
action in relation to this matter. 
I recognise this leaves Mr T in a difficult position as he no longer has his shares 
electronically or certified, but I dont think thats iis fault. Mr T is free to take things up with 
the registrar himself should he so wish. It appears there has been no news from G for some 
time, and I havent been able to find any sort of valuation for them, so approaching G directly 
is also an alternative he could consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman