DRN-1803531
The complaint
Mr P complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited would not allow him to 
transfer his section 32 pension policy to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Having 
previously told him by letter that he could transfer, as an alternative to taking his Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension (GMP).
What happened
In 1990, Mr P said he was advised to transfer his benefits from his former employers 
occupational pension scheme to a pension policy (a Key bond section 32 policy). Mr P said 
the adviser told him that the Key bond policy would provide him with flexible retirement 
options.
Mr P has brought a separate complaint about the mis-sale of this section 32 policy. That 
complaint has been dealt with separately under our reference ..................................
In 2016, Mr P said he decided to transfer all his private pension plans into a drawdown SIPP. 
Mr P said he was told in 2017, he couldnt transfer his Key bond policy because it had a 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) of £1,322.29 attached to it from contracted-out 
pension benefits from his former employers occupational pension scheme. Scottish Friendly 
said that the transfer wasnt permitted because the fund value of his section 32 policy was 
lower than the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the GMP. Mr P said he wasnt made 
aware of this restriction when he took out the policy.
Mr P said he was incorrectly told he could transfer his section 32 policy to another provider, 
in a letter dated 27 January 2014. He says he wasnt allowed to do this, which meant hed 
now been forced to take a poor annuity, with no tax-free cash lump sum.
Mr P complained to Scottish Friendly about the incorrect information he was given in 2014. 
He asked it to allow him to transfer his pension into his SIPP in view of this. Scottish Friendly 
disagreed, and so Mr P referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. The investigator took the view that Mr Ps 
complaint should be upheld in part, because Scottish Friendly had provided Mr P with 
misleading information about his retirement options. She said she didnt think Mr P had lost 
out financially, but, did consider that he had suffered a loss of expectation. In the 
circumstances, she concluded that Scottish Friendly should pay Mr P £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to his retirement planning.
Scottish Friendly accepted our investigators recommendation. Mr P didnt and asked for his 
case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, Mr Ps complaint has been referred to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the letter Mr P was sent in 2014, about his retirement options, to see if the 
information Mr P was given was clear, fair and not misleading. Like our investigator, I think 
Mr P couldve been given clearer information about his options at that time. Ill explain why.
The 27 January 2014 letter said:
The GMP we must pay you is £1322.28 a year. There is also a widows pension of 50% of 
the GMP, the same as you could have got from SERPs - [the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme].
 The current cost of providing the GMP is £24359.52. The current policy value is £17357.38 
so there is not enough at the moment to provide the GMP.
This means we cannot pay you anything now. We have to wait until the policy value is 
enough to meet the cost of the GMP, or until you reach age 65, whichever happens first.
The letter also said the following:
The alternative to the GMP.
Instead of waiting for the GMP you can convert it to a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV). As long as this value is less than the policy value, you can receive the pension it 
can buy. You will also be able to take up to 25% of your pension fund as tax-free cash.
I agree with our investigator, I think this letter couldve been clearer and I can understand 
why Mr P may have been misled as a result of what he read. I think the first few paragraphs 
made it clear that because the value of Mr Ps fund was less than the cost of the GMP, it 
wasnt possible to pay him anything now. The paragraph about the alternative to the GMP 
was, in my view, less clear. Read carefully, there was reference to the value of the GMP 
having to be less than the policy value for this alternative to apply. But, a reader with limited 
understanding of how GMPs work, could, in my view, easily have missed this caveat, as Mr 
P appeared to.
This service looks to put a person back in the same position as they wouldve been but for 
the business error or omission. I cant see that Mr P has lost out financially as a result of the 
information not being as clear as it shouldve been. The alternative to the GMP option was 
not available to him back in 2014, 2016 or 2017 when he was reviewing and considering 
how to take his benefits. This was because the policy value was still below the cost of his 
GMP.
However, I think the 2014 letter gave Mr P a false expectation about the retirement options 
available to him at that time, even though the value of his plan wasnt enough to cover the 
cost of his GMP. For this reason, like our investigator I think Scottish Friendly should pay Mr 
P £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to his retirement planning because of 
this.
Mr P thought Scottish Friendly should also pay him a backdated annuity (from when he 
turned 65) because he was given what he perceived to be incorrect advice in 2014. He said 
if he had been given correct information about his retirement options, he wouldve bought an 
annuity when he turned 65. But he ended up not doing so, because he was waiting for this 
complaint to be resolved.Our investigator explained, if Mr P bought an annuity when he turned 65, this wouldnt have 
prevented him from complaining about the incorrect information he said he was given in 
2014. Nor, would it have stopped this service from making a redress order reflecting his 
financial loss, had the complaint been upheld. So, I dont consider it fair or appropriate to 
make any additional award.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited to pay Mr P
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset and caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Kim Parsons
 
Ombudsman