DRN-3994202
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund him money for a transaction he says 
he didnt authorise.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, I have summarised 
them briefly below.
On 1 July 2021, Mr P says he was a victim of a pickpocket/theft which resulted in his bank 
cards and mobile telephone being stolen.
The following day, a transaction on Mr Ps HSBC account was carried out to an online 
retailer to the value of £404.95. Mr P says he didnt carry out this transaction as he was not 
in possession of his bank card at the time due to the theft.
HSBC looked into Mr Ps claim but didnt think it should be liable for the transaction. It looked 
at Mr Ps online banking access and noted that hed logged into the account after the theft of 
his mobile telephone from the same device ID thatd previously been used on the account. It 
also pointed out that a one-time passcode was used to verify the transaction and that Mr P 
had failed to report the theft to the bank until several days after the event. Overall, it found 
Mr P likely authorised the transaction and therefore held him liable.
Mr P, unhappy with this response, approached our service for an independent review. An 
Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but didnt recommend HSBC 
take any further action. In summary, the Investigator felt HSBC had sufficiently demonstrated 
that Mr P had likely authorised the transaction in dispute.
Mr P didnt agree with the Investigators assessment, and so the matter has now been 
passed to me for a decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations: regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In cases where there is a dispute about what happened, I base my decision on the balance 
of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is the most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence.
Of particular importance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSR) which 
apply to transactions like the one Mr P disputes.
Regulation 67 of the PSR explains:
67. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for 
the purposes of this part only if the payer has given its consent to(a) the execution of the 
payment transaction; or (b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that 
payment transaction forms part.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments.
If Mr P made the disputed transaction himself or authorised for them to be made on his 
behalf, it would not be fair to ask HSBC to refund them. But Mr P says he was not involved in 
the payment in dispute. So the key question for me to consider is whether HSBC has 
provided enough evidence to hold Mr P responsible.
I also think its important to disclose that Ive reviewed Mr Ps linked complaint against 
another business where hes also disputed a transaction as a result of the same 
pickpocketing/theft incident. This is so that I can get a holistic view of what has occurred.
Mr P says that he was subjected to the theft on 1 July 2021. This is supported by a crime 
reference number where he reported the matter to the police and an email from his network 
provider letting him know a new SIM card was in the process of being delivered. However, 
there have been some inconsistencies in Mr Ps testimony as to where his card was at the 
time of the theft.
Mr P on some occasions has said his bank cards were in the case attached to his mobile 
phone. On others, he states he noticed the cards were missing several days later as the 
card wasnt in his travel pass holder when he went to use it. 
While these differing accounts would normally lead me to doubt the reliability of a persons 
testimony, I havent placed much weight on them here. Mr P has demonstrated that he has a 
number of medical conditions that effect his cognitive ability: including his memory. He also 
takes medication that impacts his day-to-day functioning. This also goes some way in 
explaining why Mr P didnt have security protecting his device. Because of this, Ive focused 
more on the transaction in dispute and how this was carried out. 
Criminals tend to follow typical patterns of behaviour in cases such as this. A criminal that 
has access to a persons bank cards and/or unsecured mobile telephone will attempt to 
extract as much money as they can from the victims account, as quickly as possible. This 
tends to be due to the fact that criminals are alive to the fact that devices and bank cards are 
blocked quickly after a victim becomes aware they are missing. And considering the typical 
usage of a mobile phone and bank card, this would normally be shortly after the event. 
Following the theft, one of Mr Ps bank cardsfrom an account held with another provider
was used to carry out a transaction of just over £10 using the card and PIN. No balance 
checks were carried out and no cash withdrawals were attempted. This is highly irregular 
and not consistent with what we typically see.
A transaction was then attempted for £225.95 an hour later to the same online retailer that 
was successfully paid using Mr Ps HSBC card. But this was blocked by the account provider 
and was unsuccessful. No further attempts were made to use the account following this 
despite there being a significant balance.The transaction of £404.95 subject to this dispute was then carried out using Mr Ps HSBC 
card almost 24 hours later. Again, I question why someone intent on using Mr Ps cards 
without his authority would wait so long to extract funds from the account when there was a 
clear risk the card would be blocked in that time. This would suggest that the person carrying 
out the transaction likely knew the card wouldnt be blocked.
As well as this, no further attempts were made to carry out transactions despite there being 
funds available to spend in both accounts. Mr P has made submissions that as the person 
with his phone had access to his text messages, they would have seen that the balance on 
the account was low: but Im not persuaded by this. The messages Ive seen dont reveal the 
current balance, and the last message sent circa two weeks prior to the disputed transaction 
merely stated that the account was in an unarranged overdraft. I dont think this would have 
stopped the person from at least attempting payments on either account until they were 
declined. Instead, they managed to make only one payment that cleared almost the exact 
balance on the account.
I also question some of the reasons behind why Mr P didnt report the card as stolen sooner. 
Even taking into consideration Mr Ps conditions that Ive highlighted above, or whether hed 
not noticed the cards as missing until later, he had still managed to order a new SIM on the 
same day as the theft. Yet the previous SIM wasnt reported as stolen and blocked, as a 
one-time passcode was sent via an SMS message the following day to allow the disputed 
transaction to go through. And Mr P didnt report his card as stolen until several days later 
despite admitting to our service that he had access to his online banking via another device 
that hadnt been stolen.
I accept some of the reasons Mr P has given to explain some of these irregularities. I also 
accept that the items purchased were delivered to an address that Mr P doesnt live at, 
despite the billing address being his. But that doesnt definitively prove that Mr P didnt make 
the transaction or allow someone else to carry them out. And it doesnt necessarily prove 
that Mr P didnt receive and benefit from the goods.
When looking at the case overall, and weighing up the evidence carefully, I find on the 
balance of probabilities that Mr P, or someone acting with his authority, more likely than not 
authorised the transaction in dispute. And for those reasons, I wont be asking HSBC to 
refund the amount.
I mean no discourtesy to Mr P and am not suggesting hes made this claim falsely. Im 
merely weighing up the evidence and issuing my findings based on the evidence available.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman