DRN-3917127
The complaint
Mr R complains about Barclays Bank UK Plcs decision to block his joint account whilst he 
was abroad.
What happened
I issued my second provisional decision on this complaint on 16 December 2022. This is 
what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply to my second
provisional decision.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 13 January 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr R complains about Barclays Bank UK Plcs decision to block his joint account whilst he
was abroad.
What happened
I issued my first provisional decision on this complaint on 17 November 2022. This is what I
said:
What happened
Mr R regularly travels abroad and, to cover his living costs, he transfers money from his joint
Barclays account to an account with another bank.
Mr R was abroad in April 2022 and attempted an on-line transfer of £2000. However, he
couldnt complete his transaction as it flagged on Barclays detection system. This led to a
conversation with a representative and a subsequent block being placed on his account to
protect it from a risk of fraud.
Mr R was asked to attend a branch to prove his identity. However, this was problematic as
he was abroad and not planning to return to the UK until May or the summer of 2022. Mr R
was concerned that he wouldnt be able to manage his finances or access his money. He
couldnt understand the problem and he felt Barclays were being unreasonable and
impractical. As a result, he raised a complaint. He also found it difficult to contact Barclays
as they werent using the secure message service and, because of the block, he couldnt
access Barclays webchat facility.
Mr R subsequently complained to our service as he wanted his account reinstated. When
our investigator liaised with Barclays, they said they could probably lift the block if Mr R
could provide 2 forms of identification, with one being photographic and certified by an
official in Egypt. Our investigator thought this was a fair and reasonable offer.
However, Mr R is dissatisfied as he feels the reason for the block is unexplained and that
there was no guidance or guarantee on the proposed resolution. Furthermore, he didnt think
Barclays had explored other options.
Mr R visited a UK branch on 25 July 2022 and the suspension was lifted. Although Mr R had
a resolution, he considers Barclays demand to be unfair and is seeking £1000 compensation
to cover his travel expenses. Also, he considers Barclays action to be unacceptable and
possibly racist.
Our investigator further considered Mr Rs complaint. However, he still thought Barclays had
been fair and reasonable and didnt think it fair to ask them to compensate Mr Rs travel
costs.
As Mr R remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
My findings / What Ive decided
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a
different view to the investigator and I intend to uphold this complaint for the reasons
detailed below.
I appreciate Mr Rs frustration at having a block placed on his account. He was abroad and
undertaking a routine transaction that was important to manage his finances and access his
money. Barclays have provided details for their flagging and suspension actions and, whilst I
am unable to divulge this information, Im satisfied that this was both reasonable and
proportionate. 
In addition, they were acting in Mr Rs best interests and such action is covered in Barclays 
terms & conditions. Also, I do not think there is anything to suggest this was a result of racial 
discrimination rather than Barclays following their security protocols.
Im also satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to safeguard Mr Rs account by
limiting communications and preventing access to account facilities such as the webchat
facility.
However, having put reasonable safeguarding measures in place, I cant see that Barclays
provided Mr R with sufficient support to lift the block on his account. I think Barclays
shouldve given more consideration to the fact that the transaction might have been genuine,
especially as similar overseas transactions had previously been conducted. 
Had they done so, they couldve provided Mr R with timely information and support on how 
he could prove his identity and regain access to his account. Blocking an account for any 
customer, especially when abroad, can cause financial difficulty and leave a customer in a 
difficult or vulnerable position. Mr R needed to manage his finances and access his money 
whilst overseas and I cant see Barclays supported him after they put the block in place.
The file shows Barclays took some time to offer Mr R a remedy to regain access to his
account. Whilst I consider a certified identity document to be a fair and reasonable option, I
cant see that Barclays offered guidance or assistance to help Mr R with the practicalities of
meeting this requirement such as local certification service provider details. Also, I think Mr
R shouldve been provided with contact details of a representative that couldve given
assistance. In addition, confirmed that certification would be approved upon completion.
Regarding Mr R returning to the UK to unblock his account, I agree it wouldnt be fair or
reasonable to ask Barclays to cover his travel cost. This is because there is evidence Mr Rwas planning to return to the UK. Also, although I think there was a lack of communication
and support, it would have been a disproportionate action considering there was an option
on the table and Mr R could make contact with Barclays by email or phone.
So, having considered all the information from both sides here, although Im satisfied that
Barclays safeguarding action was reasonable and proportionate, I feel they shouldve been
more supportive over the certification resolution and given assurance that this resolution
would be acceptable upon completion. Therefore, I think £100 compensation should be
awarded for the lack of a support service.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and I
require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr R £100 compensation.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 15 December
2022. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set
out above.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the deadline.
Barclays accepted the provisional decision but didnt make any comment.
Mr R said Whilst I agree with his outcome, I feel that Barclays Bank is not adequately
reprimanded for the way they have treated my case, and I also feel that I have not been
adequately compensated for the extreme mental anguish I have been through and the
extreme vague suggestions they have made. Never has Barclays bank been in touch with
me yet they have my home address that is used for all kinds of confidential information,
cards and pin code info that they send out via such channels. For the flippant attitude
coming from the same bank that advertises that they will replace any card lost anywhere in
the world within three days (TV adverts over the years) they have left a customer that has
been with them since x out in the cold without any attempt to contact me in spite of many
secure channels they could have used. I would like you to please reconsider the fine to a
more reasonable amount for two reasons:
1. Barclays are adequately penalised for their flippant attitude
2. I am better compensated for what I have been through
Firstly, I should explain this services role isnt to punish a business, or to reprimand it. And
we cant require a business to alter its processes. I say this because we arent the regulator
of the financial services industry and our role is to consider each individual case. Also, where
we think a business hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to
decide what should be done to put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a
consumer has experienced.
Thinking about everything again and, in light of Mr Rs comments, I considered if further
compensation is warranted due to the lack of communication and support outlined in my
provisional decision and the impact this had on Mr R, including his mental health, whilst he
was abroad.
Although Im satisfied that Barclays safeguarding action was reasonable, I dont think
Barclays gave consideration to Mr R being abroad. And, the potential implications on their
customer, including vulnerability, in the event the transaction turned out to be genuine.Considering it was genuine and Mr R was in a different country, I think Barclays
communications shouldve been better, in order to give him immediate support to prove his
identity and lift the block on his account. So, I can understand the impact here and Mr Rs
comments.
When considering further compensation, I revisited the award guidance which is available to
the public on our website. This said that a £100 award would fairly compensate a one-off
incident or occurrence and, an award above £100 and up to £300 would be suitable where
there had been a repeated or larger single mistake, typically resulting in an impact that lasts
a few days, or even weeks, and causes distress, inconvenience, disappointment or loss of
expectation.
I also revisited the case file to review the information Mr R submitted on how he was
impacted. I also looked at Barclays communications. And, I could see deficient
communication and support from Barclays which impacted Mr Rs ability to manage his
finances and access his money. Furthermore, that it caused Mr R distress, inconvenience,
disappointment, and loss of expectation. So, I have decided the amount of compensation
should be increased.
As a result, I will be directing Barclays to pay an additional £200 compensation, so £300 in
total, in recognition of this, which I consider to be fair in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and
tell Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenience in relation to
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
I received a response from both parties: 
Mr R said he didnt have anything further to add.
Barclays said they agreed to pay the higher amount of compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to note Barclays agree it needs to take steps to put things right. So, having 
reconsidered everything, I see no reason to depart from my second provisional decision 
which I adopt in full as part of this final decision. 
Im satisfied Barclays communication and support was deficient and this impacted Mr Rs 
ability to manage his finances and access his money. Also, it caused Mr R distress, 
inconvenience, disappointment, and loss of expectation.
Putting things right
So, Im directing Barclays to pay Mr R £300 compensation, which I consider to be fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
I require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman