DRN-4052309
The complaint
Mr F complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, made by a premium-brand 
manufacturer and first registered in 2013. 
In February 2021, Mr F acquired the car subject to an agreement with a finance company.
Mr F had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with Admiral for the year from May 
2021. The policy covered Mr F as policyholder and his father as a named driver. Any claim 
for damage (except a windscreen claim) was subject to an excess of £850.00.
In mid-December 2021, the car passed an MOT test.
Unfortunately, in February 2022, the car hit a metal object on the road. This caused damage 
to the underside of the car, which lost engine oil and became undriveable. 
Admiral said the car was a total loss. Admiral arranged for the car to be taken to its salvage 
agent.
In March 2022, Admiral paid the balance of about £1,600.00 due to the finance company.
In mid-April 2022, Admiral sent Mr F a cheque for just under £6,000.00, but he rejected it.
In late April 2022, Admiral made an electronic payment of about £3,000.00 to Mr F. In late 
April 2022, Mr F made a complaint (the first complaint ) to Admiral about its pre-accident 
valuation of the car and poor service. 
By a final response dated late May 2022, Admiral upheld the first complaint.
Admiral increased its valuation to £10,762.00 and offered £125.00 compensation. Admiral 
made further electronic payments to Mr F of £1,536.02 and £137.39.
In July 2022, Mr F sent the damaged car to a repairer. He got an estimate to repair the 
damage caused by the accident and other damage. Mr F sent the estimate to Admiral. 
Admiral maintained that the car was a total loss in category N (non-structural damage). In 
late July or early August 2022, Mr F made a complaint (the current complaint) to Admiral 
that it had declined to reverse that categorisation. 
In August 2022, Mr F got a second estimate to repair the damage.
By a final response dated late September 2022, Admiral turned down the current complaint. 
Mr F brought his current complaint to us in mid-December 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the current complaint should be upheld. He thought 
that the policy terms allowed Admiral to settle the claim in the way it did.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. His father says, in summary, that: 
The day after the incident in February 2022, Admiral declared the car uneconomic to 
repair. This was based on an under- valuation of the car and on Mr Fs account of the 
damage which was minimal. Admiral said that if Mr F was not happy with the total 
loss decision, then it could look at estimating the cost of repairs. Admiral never did 
an estimate.
It took a lot of effort, heartache and additional costs to get this increased to an 
acceptable level, finally agreed at £10,762.00.
Admirals salvage agent was negligent and may have damaged the engine beyond 
repair, trying to start it with no or little engine oil. Brakes had also seized due to the 
time the car had stood still and exposed to the elements.
Mr F and his father moved the car to an independent repairer, organised an 
inspection and provided the repair estimates to Admiral.
Suspension damage only became evident to Admiral at that time.
The repair estimates included an engine repair kit.
The first repair estimate using manufacturers OE parts was about £8,000.00. 
That included brake replacement parts at £2,800.00 (excluding labour) that were not 
related to the incident in February 2022. It is totally unfair of Admiral to consider 
those costs when classifying the vehicle as a total loss. 
So the cost of repairs shouldve been less than 65% of the pre-accident value of the 
car. Therefore the car shouldve been repairable from the day after the incident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The metal object caused damage to the underside of the car. Whilst it may not have been 
easily visible, I dont accept that the damage reported by Mr F was minimal. 
The policy terms included the following:
What we will pay 
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either pay: 
to repair your vehicle 
a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle.
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle 
We will repair your vehicle with parts made to the manufacturers specification. ..
A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers recommendation.
If your vehicle is subject to a hire purchase agreement, we will pay any money owed 
to that company first and then pay any remaining money to you. If your vehicle is on 
lease or contract hire, we will pay the lease or contract hire company either the market value of the vehicle, or the amount required to settle the agreement, 
whichever is less
So, in my view, the policy terms allowed Admiral a discretion whether to repair the vehicle or 
to pay a cash sum up to the market value. I will consider whether Admiral applied that term 
fairly. I keep in mind that it is standard practice for an insurer to treat a vehicle as a total loss 
where the estimated cost of repairs is more than a certain percentage (say 65%) of the pre-
accident value of the vehicle.
Admiral made an early decision that the car was a total loss. That was based on initial 
information. When Mr F questioned this, Admiral said it would get a repair estimate. It never 
did so. But Admirals engineer reviewed the decision and confirmed it.
Admirals file contains information from the salvage agent that the car wouldnt start. I dont 
consider that theres enough evidence to say that the salvage agent started the engine or 
caused any damage to it.
Whilst I have no reason to doubt that the brakes seized, the MOT record indicates that 
issues with the brakes  had been advised since December 2021. So I dont find it fair to hold 
Admiral responsible for the cost of replacement.
I accept that Admiral under-valued the car until about late May 2022. However, by that time, 
Mr F had received the benefit of the following sums:
paid to finance company £1,611.44
paid to Mr F £3,059.81
£1,536.02 
£   137.39
total £6,344.66
By July 2022, Mr F had also got his damaged car back from the salvage agent. So I would 
expect Admiral to have made a deduction from the final valuation of  £10,762.00 of a 
salvage payment (as well as the excess of £850.00). From what Ive seen, the salvage 
deduction was over £3,000.00. However, I dont consider that Mr F has complained about 
that.
By July 2022, Admiral had treated the car as a total loss and paid Mr F its agreed pre-
accident value less the salvage deduction and excess. I consider that it was obliged to 
record the vehicle as a total loss in category N.
Mr F and his father got repair estimates. 
The final response dated September 2022 included the following:
 We are not willing to reverse the CAT N on the vehicle. The policy terms, and 
conditions state that we only use Manufacturer parts to repair our policy holder's 
vehicle, therefore we will be unable to accept the non-approved repairers' estimates. 
As because of the nature of the repairs needed, we would not be able to remove 
category N from the vehicle and your vehicle continue to be deemed total loss. It is 
not economic for us to repair this vehicle
Thats not as clear as it shouldve been, in my view. And the reference to Manufacturer 
parts wasnt necessarily in line with the phrase  parts made to the manufacturers 
specification quoted above from the policy terms.Nevertheless, I dont accept that Admiral was responsible for the costs of the engine repair 
kit or brakes. And Mr Fs repairers estimates, including suspension damage, showed that 
the estimated cost of repair was a high percentage of the agreed pre-accident value. In the 
context of a 2013 car, I dont consider that Admiral treated Mr F unfairly by maintaining that 
the car was a total loss in category N.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to change the way it recorded that 
outcome or to make any further payments to Mr F in response to the current complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman