DRN-4330274
The complaint
Ms R has complained about the service she received from West Bay Insurance Plc after she 
made a claim under her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms R took out insurance for her dog with West Bay on 6 January 2021. The policy was 
renewed on 6 January 2022 and 2023. She paid the premium in instalments.
On 1 March 2023 Ms Rs vet submitted a claim on her behalf for treatment her dog had 
received between 1 December 2022 and 16 January 2023 costing £404.31 in total. West 
Bay acknowledged the claim shortly after and said it aimed to assess the claim within four 
weeks.
On 18 May West Bay accepted the claim. It said it would deduct two excesses of £100 each 
and two co-payments from the settlement as the treatment spanned two policy years.
Later that month Ms R contacted West Bay to cancel the policy. She complained about the 
fact that two excesses had been deducted from the settlement and about poor service.
West Bay said it was entitled under the policy to deduct two excesses. But it did agree that 
there had been unnecessary delay in dealing with the claim and paid her £40 compensation 
for that. It also said as a successful claim had been made, Ms R was liable to pay the 
balance of the premium due for the remainder of the policy year.
Ms R brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator upheld it 
in part. He recommended that West Bay should pay an additional £110 compensation for the 
delay in dealing with the claim.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The treatment for Ms Rs dog crossed two policy years.
In the policy schedule it says:
FIXED EXCESS AND CO-INSURANCE
The fixed excess is the amount you are required to pay towards each illness or injury your 
pet suffers from. It is applied again to any treatment of an illness or injury that carries over 
into a new period of insurance.  An additional 10% co-insurance excess is applied to every 
veterinary fee claim made from the date your pet turns 5 years of age. This amount will be 
deducted from the claims settlement after the deduction of any fixed excess applicable.
I think this was sufficiently clear that an excess is payable for each policy year. I appreciate 
that when the fixed excess is £100 and the claim is relatively small but crosses two policy 
years, the excesses and co-payments will eat into a large part of the claim settlement. But 
those are the policy terms and I dont think West Bay treated Ms R unfairly in applying them.
Ms Rs dog was born in November 2016. So he had turned 5 years of age by the time of the 
claim. That means West Bay was also entitled to apply the additional 10% co-insurance 
excess.
Looking at a timeline of the complaint I can see that West Bay acknowledged Ms Rs claim 
on 3 March 2023. The claim wasnt assigned to an assessor until 12 April 2023. On that date 
it requested the dogs medical history from the vet. It received that on 13 April but the history 
only went back to 2021. The assessor then tried to get the information from the dogs 
previous vet. On 18 May it received all the information it needed and the claim was settled 
shortly after that.
West Bay acted reasonably in asking for more medical history in order to assess the claim. 
But at the outset West Bay shouldnt have taken almost six weeks to start processing the 
claim. I think that would have caused Ms R unnecessary trouble and upset, especially since 
she had paid the vets bill for the treatment in full in February and had been told the claim 
should be assessed within four weeks. I agree with our Investigator that the further sum of 
£110 is appropriate to compensate Ms R for this.
With regard to cancellation, it is standard practice in the insurance industry for policy holders 
to be charged the full premium for a policy if they make a claim on it during the policy year. 
This was made clear to Ms R in West Bays Terms of Business Agreement which said:
 If you wish to cancel your policy and a claim has been made, or if a claim is made against 
you, the remaining premium for the policy year will be charged in the month of cancellation. 
(This will not apply in the event of the loss or death of your pet). If you wish to cancel your 
policy, please contact us using the details above. Upon receipt of your cancellation request, 
we shall cancel your policy.
Im satisfied that West Bay hasnt treated Ms R unfairly in requiring her to pay the balance of 
the annual premium on cancellation as she had made a claim in the policy year.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require West Bay 
Insurance Plc to pay Ms R a further £110 to compensate her for the trouble and upset 
caused by its delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman