DRN-4115198
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the amount Haven Insurance Company Limited paid in 
settlement of a claim he made under his commercial motor insurance (Taxi) policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr D is unhappy with the valuation placed on his 
taxi following a total loss claim under his policy.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds claim should be upheld. She said Haven had reached its 
valuation using the same recognised motor industry trade guides our service typically relies 
on when assessing complaints about motor valuations. She said the amount Haven paid 
was higher than the average valuation from the guides it checked. So, she thought it had 
reached a fair valuation. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement had been reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to that reached by our investigator, and for 
different reasons. So I issued a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to 
respond, before I reached a final decision. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a slightly different outcome to that reached by 
our investigator, and for different reasons. So, Im issuing a provisional decision to 
give the parties the chance to respond, before I reach a final decision. Ill explain my 
reasoning below.
Mr D has complained that the valuation placed on his taxi by Haven, £32,310, is 
too low. He says he had numerous optional extras on his taxi which havent 
been properly taken into account. He says he paid around £37,000 for his taxi, 
and similar cars available in the market now cost around £35,000. 
Mr D has also raised concerns about the length of time the claim took to be 
settled and the impact this had on his ability to work. However, having spoken 
with him, he explained that he doesnt want to provide evidence of lost earnings. 
He said he just wants a decision from our service on a fair valuation for his taxi.
I can appreciate Mr Ds desire to be covered for the amount he purchased his 
car for. But his policy doesnt provide that level of cover. Rather, it covers him 
for the market value of his taxi, at the time of loss  which is fairly standard 
within the motor insurance industry.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
Market Value 
The Market Value of Your Taxi will be determined as the cost of the replacing 
Your Taxi with one of similar make, model and specification, taking into 
account the age, mileage and condition of Your Taxi. To determine the 
Market Value, We will typically request the advice of an engineer and refer to 
guides and any other relevant sources.
Haven initially deemed the market value of Mr Ds car to be £30,580. But this was 
later increased to £32,310 following a review from one of its engineers. Haven says 
this engineers review included the optional extras Mr D had on his car. 
Haven says the valuations it used to reach the initial figure of £30,580 were from 
Glasss  one of the recognised motor industry guides for obtaining motor valuations. 
Haven took the average of the transacted and retail transacted figures which were 
as follows:
Glasss transacted  £28,990
Glasss retail transacted  £32,170
Haven also says it obtained a valuation from CAP  another of the guides  which 
was £29,250.
Havens engineer then says he added the optional extras into Glasss which 
increased the valuation to £32,310  which is the amount it eventually paid in 
settlement of Mr Ds claim, less the policy excess and outstanding premiums.
However, Haven hasnt provided our service with actual evidence of the valuation it 
obtained from Glasss which included the optional extras. And it appears to have 
used the wrong date of loss to obtain the valuation from CAP  which can impact the 
valuation. So, Ive obtained my own valuations from all of the motor trade guides our 
service typically uses when assessing complaints about motor valuations. Not all of 
the guides we use are able to take account of optional extras. But one of them is, and 
that is included in the results of my valuations below:
Glasss: £32,170
CAP (inc optional extras): £31,060
Cazoo (formerly Cazana): £30,436
AutoTrader: £31,052
Based on the above, Im satisfied that the valuation placed on Mr Ds taxi by Haven is 
in line with the valuations provided by the trade guides, and that it most likely took 
into account the optional extras.As explained by our investigator, our services typical approach when considering 
complaints about fair market value takes into account what the market leading motor 
trade guides say the market value is. These guides are independent from the 
insurance industry, and from one another. We find these guides to be particularly 
persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research and 
likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. Were 
confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market value of a vehicle.
I should also point out that our service typically finds these motor trade guides to be 
more persuasive than sales adverts. This is because advertised prices are often the 
starting point of a negotiation and are what the seller would like to achieve, rather 
than the final price the vehicle actually sells for. Its also particularly important to note, 
in this case, that the adverts provided by Mr D are for cars with lower mileage or 
slightly different specifications than his car, which is also likely to have an impact on 
the advertised price.
So, based on everything Ive seen, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ds complaint 
about the valuation placed on his taxi.
However, despite Mr D not wishing to proceed with a complaint about his lost 
earnings, our service does have an inquisitorial remit. And I dont feel I can 
reasonably ignore the fact that Haven caused some unreasonable delays which 
meant Mr D was without the use of his taxi  his sole source of income  for longer 
than he ought to have been.
In its final response to Mr Ds complaint, Haven acknowledged that the claim took 
two months to be settled, but said the claim was ultimately worked in line with its 
expectations and was actively moved forward when touched by its claim handlers. 
But from what Ive seen, there were around four weeks of unnecessary delay; three 
weeks while waiting for the engineer to assess the valuation and one week between 
the final figure being agreed and actually being paid. Haven sold Mr D a specialist 
taxi policy, so it was clearly aware that his car was also his source of income. And I 
note that Mr D was calling regularly, stressing the importance of the claim being dealt 
with promptly. So, in the circumstances, I dont agree that the above are reasonable 
timescales.
Mr D has said he doesnt want to provide evidence of lost earnings, so I wont be 
able to consider an award for this. But our services typical approach where a 
policyholder is without their vehicle because of delays caused by the insurer also 
includes compensation for loss of use. Had Haven, or its agents, not caused these 
delays, I find it more likely than not that Mr D would have been able to replace his car 
that much sooner. So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I consider 
that compensation for loss of use should reasonably be paid. And as Mr Ds policy is 
a commercial policy, I consider that a fair amount of compensation for loss of use 
would be £20 per day.
I said I was intending to direct Haven to pay Mr D £560 to cover the four weeks loss of use I 
thought it was responsible for, in order to resolve the complaint. I asked both sides to 
provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider before I reached my 
final decision.
Both sides responded to confirm they accepted my provisional conclusions. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new evidence or arguments in response to my provisional decision, 
Ive reached the same conclusions set out in that decision  for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ds complaint in 
part.
 
Haven Insurance Company Limited must Pay Mr D loss of use at £20 per day for a four-
week period which amounts to £560.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman