DRN-3550953
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Metro Bank PLC discriminated against him by not allowing him to
open a bank account with them.
What happened
Mr S is an asylum seeker and holds an application registration card (ARC) which was issued
to him in February 2021. His card had an expiry date.
Mr S was offered a job shortly after receiving his ARC, and wanted to open a bank account
with Metro Bank for his wages to be paid into. He checked Metro Banks website which said
hed need to show his ARC, plus confirmation of asylum support allowance or other income
showing his address (or a letter from HMRC), plus an additional proof of address document.
Mr S visited a branch, where he supplied his ARC, his tenancy agreement and a letter from
HMRC. He says the branch told him this would be enough to open an account, but when
they spoke to head office, they said they couldnt accept his ARC to open an account.
Mr S visited two other branches. One of the branches told him they couldnt open an account
for him  but Mr S says they didnt explain why, apart from saying it was due to Brexit, and
he felt the branch staff were laughing at him and discriminating against him.
The third branch Mr S visited told him that to open an account hed need a GPs letter as an
additional proof of address. Mr S obtained a GPs letter, at a cost of £15, but when he
returned to the branch with the letter, they told him they couldnt open the account because
they couldnt verify his ARC.
On 4 March 2021 Mr S called Metro Bank to complain. He said he couldnt understand why
Metro Bank wouldnt open an account for him, when their website said ARCs were accepted.
The adviser called the branch to ask what had happened, and then explained to Mr S that
the branch had said head office had told them not to accept ARCs. Mr S asked for an email 
explaining why ARCs couldnt be accepted, but the adviser said Mr S should write to Metro
Banks head office.
Mr S made a number of further calls to Metro Bank over a period of around two weeks,
during which he asked repeatedly for information about which branches had experience of
opening accounts with an ARC. He asked for details in writing of why his ARC couldnt be
accepted.
On 4 March 2021 Metro Bank issued a final response letter, which said Mr S wasnt able to
open an account at the third branch due to a recent change in their acceptance of ARCs.
They offered him £5 to cover his journey home.
Mr S contacted our service to raise a complaint. He said, in summary, that he thought he
was being discriminated against because of his race. He said Metro Banks website was
misleading, and he didnt feel he was treated fairly.
Metro Bank responded to us offering to increase their offer by £15 to cover the cost of the
GPs letter. They said the third branch Mr S visited was correct to ask for a GPs letter as
proof of address. But it had been unnecessary for Mr S to obtain this, because ARCs issued
in 2021, like Mr Ss, were no longer being accepted. They said this was because theyd
made a business decision to temporarily not accept ARCs issued in 2021, because they
werent compatible with the database they used for their ID scanners.
Mr S says he opened an account with another business around May 2021.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. He said, in summary, that he didnt think Mr S
had been treated fairly  and he didnt think Metro Bank had grasped quite how this
experience had made Mr S feel. He thought Metro Bank should pay Mr S £300 for the
distress and inconvenience he had suffered.
Metro Bank replied to say they thought £300 was too high. They offered Mr S £150, but Mr S
didnt accept their offer. Mr S said he thinks he should receive more compensation, and that
Metro Bank should apologise to him.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 18 May 2022. This is what I said.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint and to increase the compensation 
award from the amount the investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
Generally, a business can decide their own policies and procedures for opening an account.
However, they should take care to make sure these are clear to potential customers. And I
dont think Metro Bank have done this here, which has led to Mr S feeling he was being
discriminated against.
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its
relevant law  but its for a court to decide if Metro Bank breached the Equality Act. My role
is to decide Mr Ss complaint based on whats fair and reasonable.
I dont have any notes from Metro Bank to show what discussions were had between Mr S
and the branches he visited. But Metro Bank dont seem to be disputing Mr Ss recollection
of the information he was given. And it does seem, from what Mr S has said, that the branch
staff were unclear and inconsistent in their reasons for not opening an account for him  and
not aware of Metro Banks policy changes around accepting ARCs.
Ive looked at what Metro Bank have said about when the decision not to accept ARCs
issued in 2021 was made and communicated. Theyve not been clear about exactly when
they decided not to accept these ARCs, but theyve said:
I appreciate that when the consumer obtained the GP letter he had everything necessary
to open an account with Metro Bank. Regrettably, in the meantime, Metro Bank made a
decision to temporarily not accept ARC cards issued in 2021.
This implies the decision not to accept ARCs was made between the third branch asking for
a GPs letter as proof of address, and when Mr S returned to the branch. But if this was the
case it doesnt explain why the first two branches Mr S visited refused to open an account for
him. I think its more likely this process was in place when Mr S visited the first branch, but
because it wasnt clearly explained to him why his ARC wasnt accepted, he tried again in
two more branches, and was told to obtain a GPs letter unnecessarily.I think Mr S was broadly given the correct explanation in the third branch he visited after he
returned with the GPs letter as proof of address, when the manager explained they couldnt
open an account because they couldnt verify ARCs. But by that time Mr S had lost
confidence that the reasons hed been given were true, and was upset that hed been asked
to obtain a GPs letter that wasnt needed. So, he made some further calls to Metro Bank to
ask how he could open an account.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr S and Metro Bank after his visits to the branches. Mr S
was initially told that Metro Bank werent accepting ARCs at all  which wasnt correct, and
which Mr S disputed, because Metro Banks website showed they were accepting ARCs.
When he made further calls, the advisers seemed to be the under the impression that his
ARC should be accepted  and they were unable to explain why the branches hadnt
accepted it.
They said, variously, that:
They do accept ARCs (but without explaining that they werent currently accepting
ARCs issued in 2021);
They dont accept ARCs without an expiry date (which Mr Ss card did have); and
Theyd accept Mr Ss ARC with proof of address and income (which wasnt correct.)
This increased Mr Ss upset and confusion about why he couldnt open an account.
My overall impression here is that the members of staff Mr S interacted with either werent
aware of the temporary withdrawal of acceptance of ARCs from 2021, or if they were, they
didnt fully understand the reasons behind it - and were in some cases attributing it to Brexit
without explaining further. I think this has led to Mr S being unable to obtain a clear
explanation of why his ARC wasnt accepted.
I think if Metro Bank had updated their website to explain that ARCs from 2021 were
temporarily not being accepted, the reason that Mr S was unable to open an account would
have been clearer to both Mr S and to Metro Banks own staff.
Metro Bank have explained they chose not to update the website because they were still
accepting ARCs issued before 2021. But because they didnt update their website, Mr S felt
that the decision not to accept his ARC was being made by individual branch staff, and
wasnt in line with Metro Banks published policy. So, I can understand why Mr S felt he was
being discriminated against, and why he found this so experience so distressing.
Ive thought carefully about the impact this has had on Mr S. As an asylum seeker who had
only recently been granted the right to work limited hours, Mr S was in a vulnerable situation
and was a vulnerable consumer. And I think Metro Bank have failed to recognise or
appreciate this in how theyve handled their interactions with Mr S. This has caused further
financial loss, and resulted in Mr S feeling the reason the staff acted the way they did was
due to them discriminating on the grounds of race - as opposed to Metro Banks staff not
being aware of the policy change and communicating this clearly to Mr S. The distress this
caused to Mr S is evident in the calls that took place between him and Metro Bank.
At this time, Mr S only had around £35 a week for expenses, so the £15 he spent on the
unnecessary GPs letter was a large chunk of his weekly income  and he said he could only
afford one meal a day as it was. He was in a difficult position as his wages were being paid
into a church account while he tried to open an account with Metro Bank  which he said led
to him losing three weeks of work as his employer was unhappy with this as an ongoing
arrangement. And I think this could have been avoided, because Mr S may have tried to open an account 
with another bank more quickly if hed been given the correct reason about why he couldnt 
open an account with Metro Bank at an earlier point. I think he continued to pursue opening 
an account with Metro Bank because he wasnt given a clear reason about why he couldnt 
open an account, and he felt he was being discriminated against.
Our investigator asked Metro Bank to pay Mr S £300. But I dont think this is quite enough to
recognise the substantial distress this experience caused to him. So Ive provisionally
decided to increase the compensation award to £500. I think this is fair, reasonable and in
line with awards made by us similar circumstances.
I also think in this case, it would be appropriate and proportionate for Metro Bank to
apologise to Mr S for the distress they caused to him.
I asked both parties to respond with anything else they wanted to add by 18 June 2022. Mr S 
responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. Metro Bank didnt respond to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said Id look at any additional comments Mr S or Metro Bank provided following my 
provisional decision. But Metro Bank didnt respond to my provisional decision and Mr S 
accepted it. Ive not had any additional information to consider and so Im not departing from 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr S £500 and contact him to apologise for how hes been 
treated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman