DRN-3855343
The complaint
Miss S complains that Metro Bank PLC (trading as Ratesetter) has recorded adverse 
information about a loan on her credit file.
What happened
Miss S took out a peer to peer loan with Ratesetter in January 2017. The loan was for 
£2,584.04 (including the loan fee) over 24 months. Miss S made regular payments to the 
loan over the next year. 
In January 2018 Miss S asked Ratesetter for a settlement figure for the loan. She says she 
was told she would need to pay £734.22 to settle the loan, which she did, and that she then 
heard nothing further from Ratesetter until she became aware in 2021 that an outstanding 
balance of £114.11 (one months payment) had been passed to a debt collection agency. 
Miss S has since repaid the outstanding amount, but complained to Ratesetter as she was 
unhappy that adverse information about the loan had been recorded on her credit file.
Ratesetter looked into Miss Ss concerns but did not think it had done anything wrong. It said 
it had made clear to her that the settlement figure did not include the last payment due on 
the loan. It also said it had then made repeated attempts to contact her about the account 
before issuing a default notice.
Miss S remained unhappy so she referred her complaint to us. One of our Investigators 
looked into what had happened but did not think Ratesetter had done anything wrong. They 
felt that Ratesetter had made clear to Miss S that she needed to make one last payment of 
£114.11 to the loan after the settlement figure was paid, and that Ratesetter had then made 
reasonable attempts to contact Miss S about the outstanding balance before defaulting the 
account. Miss S disagreed, so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our Investigator and for the same 
reasons. 
When Miss S asked for a settlement figure for her loan Ratesetter was in the process of 
requesting her next monthly loan repayment of £114.11, so this was not included in the 
settlement figure. Miss S says this was not made clear to her, but Ive listened to the 
conversation she had with Ratesetter on 29 January 2018, when the direct debit for £114.11 
failed, where Ratesetter explained that she still needed to make this payment as it had not 
been included in the settlement figure. During this call Miss S said she was aware the 
payment had failed and that she would log on to make the payment later that day. There is 
no evidence to suggest that she did so, and so the £114.11 remained outstanding. 
Im satisfied, with what Ive seen, that Ratesetter did make it clear that Miss S would need to 
make this payment to clear her loan balance. 
Miss S has suggested she then spoke to Ratesetter again and was told she did not have to 
make any further payment, but Ive seen no evidence that any further conversations about 
the account took place. And I can also see that Ratesetter then made repeated attempts, via 
phone, letter and email, to contact Miss S about the outstanding balance. Miss S has said 
that she had moved and changed her phone number, but I cant see that any post was 
returned to Ratesetter as not at this address and Ratesetters notes suggest that when it 
called the number it had on file it was not told that Miss S was no longer using that number. 
So I cant see how Ratesetter would have been aware that Miss Ss contact details had 
changed.
Im therefore satisfied that Ratesetter made reasonable attempts to let Miss S know about 
the status of her account before issuing a default notice and, ultimately, defaulting the 
account. With that in mind, Im satisfied that the information recorded on Miss Ss credit file 
about this account is an accurate reflection of how her account was operated, and so I wont 
be asking Ratesetter to make any changes to what it has recorded.
I know this will be disappointing for Miss S, but I consider that Ratesetter has treated her 
fairly here, so I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman