DRN-3363946
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has declined her home 
insurance claim for damage to her underground drains, has caused delays and provided 
poor customer service.
What happened
In March 2021, Mrs A contacted RSA to make a claim because her drains were backing up 
and blocked. RSA instructed its drainage experts (C) to visit the property to investigate. C 
attended two days later and was told by Mrs A that there appeared to be a blocked drain at 
the rear of the property. Mrs A showed C the septic tank and a disturbed area in the lawn 
where the soakaway was alleged to be located. C attempted to high pressure jet wash the 
drains but was unsuccessful. It left site and advised RSA that further investigations were 
required.
C attended again about a week later on 11 March. It noted the septic tank was above 
operating level and that all treated effluent from the tank discharged to a concrete 
distribution chamber before passing on to the soakaway approximately 7m downstream from 
the chamber. C drained the septic tank and was able to inspect it. It told RSA that the tank 
was in a fully operational and serviceable condition with no visual evidence of any structural 
deformation. Having inspected the tank, C used a CCTV monitor to inspect the drains 
downstream towards the soakaway. The monitor was only able to pass for about 1m before 
encountering mass root infestation blocking the pipe.
C recommended the removal of the mass root infestation and the installation of a resin 
impregnated structural liner to prevent further root intrusion. It also recommended a further 
CCTV inspection of the remainder of the pipework downstream to the soakaway to establish 
the condition of the remaining pipework and the soakaway.
In mid- September 2021, Mrs A complained to RSA about the way her claim had been 
handled and the delays shed experienced. She said she had been left without use of 
essential facilities at the house as the drains were still backing up. Consequently she and 
her family had had to move into temporary accommodation. Mrs A said shed been put to the 
inconvenience of having to make numerous calls to C to chase it up. And she said C had 
damaged the drainage field during its investigations.
C returned to site at the end of September 2021 and carried out the works itd previously 
recommended. It then found a high-water level so it excavated the pipe at the 15m and 18m 
points downstream of the septic tank and found the pipe full of water. C reported to RSA that 
this proved the soakaway/drainage field was no longer working having failed gradually. C 
recommended the claim was declined. Mrs A also complained to RSA about its decision to 
decline her claim.
RSA looked into Mrs As complaints but didnt recommend they were upheld. It said the 
various visits by C had all been necessary so that a full investigation could be completed and 
the correct decision about the liability for the claim reached. RSA said that having reviewed 
the timeline it didnt think there had been any avoidable delays. And it said the cause of the 
damage was the gradual failure of the drainage field which wasnt covered by the policy. 
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to RSA, Mrs A complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He thought that 
RSA hadnt shown that all the roots had been cleared from the pipes and so hadnt been 
able to inspect them fully. So whilst he thought it was possible the drainage field had failed, 
he thought further investigation was needed to establish if this was the case. So he 
recommended RSA pay for Mrs A to appoint her own contractor to inspect, and report on, 
the drainage. He said RSA should then consider the report and if it was shown that the 
damage would be covered by the policy then it should arrange for repairs to be carried out. 
Our investigator also thought there was evidence of delays, and poor service, in the way the 
claim was handled which had caused Mrs A and her family trouble and upset and meant 
shed had to move out of her property temporarily. So, our investigator recommended that 
RSA pay Mrs A compensation of £500. He also said that if the new report showed the claim 
should be covered then RSA should reimburse Mrs A for any temporary accommodation 
costs shed incurred along with the cost of the tankers shed engaged to repeatedly drain the 
tanks.
Mrs A accepted our investigators findings but RSA didnt. It said that the policy didnt cover 
the cost of proving a claim was valid but, if Mrs A could show it was, then it would look at 
making a contribution to any costs shed incurred in doing so. RSA disagreed with the 
amount of compensation our investigator recommended because it said the complexity of 
the claim meant multiple visits were necessary, and various expert opinions were sought, in 
order to reach the correct decision on liability. RSA asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
again.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision in February 2022. I 
made the following provisional findings: 
With regret for the disappointment this provisional decision will cause Mrs A, Im afraid Im 
unable to agree with our investigators findings and recommendations; Ill explain why.
This is a complaint with two parts; the first being about RSAs decision to decline the claim 
and the second about the poor service and delays Mrs A said she experienced. Ill look at 
each separately.
The claim
I have to decide if RSA has treated Mrs A fairly and reasonably in the way it has dealt with 
her claim. Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. Only 
damage caused by one of the perils (insured events)  fire, theft, flood etc.  is covered. 
Providing it can be shown that the damage being claimed for has been caused by one of the 
perils listed in the policy then the insurer must settle the claim unless it can rely on one of the 
policy exclusions to defeat the claim. The burden of proving any exclusion can be 
successfully applied rests with the insurer.
It is clear to me that Mrs As drainage system is damaged; there has been a loss of 
function. But the starting point for any claim is whether the damage being claimed for is 
covered by the policy terms and conditions. Mrs As policy contains the following relevant 
term:
The buildings are insured against loss or physical damage by the following causes: 12. Accidental breakage of drains and pipes and accidental damage to cables and 
underground tanks which are used to provide services to or from your home for which you 
are legally responsible
What is not covered
Damage by gradual deterioration which has caused an installation to reach the end of its 
useful life
The policy defines accidental damage as: sudden, unexpected and visible damage which 
has not been caused on purpose.
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions I think that the above peril is the only 
possible one in the policy that the damage Mrs A has claimed for can be considered under. 
Its my role to decide if RSA, based on the evidence available, fairly and reasonably declined 
Mrs As claim for accidental breakage to her underground drains. Despite the 
disappointment I know it will cause Mrs A, I have to say, I think it has. Ill explain why.
The only expert evidence available about the cause of damage to Mrs As drains is that 
provided by C. I cant reasonably ignore that evidence when reaching my decision. Ive set 
out in some detail above the investigations C undertook, and the conclusions it reached. C 
said that after clearing the tree roots itd identified in the pipe it found a high level of water to 
be present. Having made that discovery, it reasonably decided to investigate further by 
excavating the drainage pipe 15m and 18m downstream of the septic tank. On doing so it 
discovered a pipe full of water.
If the pipe was full of water, it is reasonable to conclude that it wasnt draining away into the 
drainage field/soakaway. This is what C concluded; the water in the pipe indicated the 
drainage field wasnt working and had failed gradually.
A soakaway/drainage field only has a finite lifespan as, due to its nature, the water flowing 
through it will deposit debris over time. This will eventually clog the soakaway and it will 
cease to do its job effectively. As the expiry of a soakaway is something that happens 
gradually it cant reasonably be said to be sudden. This means the damage to the 
soakaway/drainage field (loss of function) isnt accidental in nature and thus is not covered 
by the peril Ive cited above or any other of the perils in the policy. It follows that I dont think 
that RSA unfairly declined Mrs As claim for damage to her drains.
Poor service
In its final response letter to Mrs A, RSA said its investigation had found no evidence of any 
avoidable delays. From my review of the evidence, Im unable to agree with RSAs view. I 
accept that it wasnt straightforward for C to ascertain the exact cause of damage to Mrs As 
drains. I accept too that it took a number of visits to try different ways of working out
what was going on. But despite appreciating that ascertaining the cause of damage (and 
thereby establishing if it was liable) wasnt straightforward, I cant see why it took C seven 
months to do so.
From RSAs system notes I can see that there were numerous delays. For example, C failed 
to tell RSA that it had been out to Mrs As property on 11 March and it wasnt until RSA 
chased it on 23 March that C told RSA about the visit, that itd called Mrs A and was waiting 
a start date. Presumably, from Cs report, the work it was waiting to start was the removal of 
the root infestation the installation of resin liner and the further CCTV inspection.
I can see RSAs case handler chased C on 30 March and again on 14 April  and that 
nothing was happening. On 14 April C told RSA that it was planning on calling Mrs A the next day to book the work in. It isnt clear to me why that hadnt been done 3 weeks 
previously. And RSA chased C again a week later to see if the works had been booked and 
was told: hopefully tomorrow. I can see that through May 2021 RSA was waiting for a report 
from C and was repeatedly reassured that it was coming. And in June C told RSA that it 
needed to go out again to Mrs As property  but there was no documented movement on 
the claim through June or July. C told RSA on 26 August that it was attending the following 
day but it wasnt until 2 September that it told RSA that further works were needed. RSA 
chased that a week later and C said it was hoping to book in the works that day. In the 
event, it doesnt look like C attended much before the end of September by which time Mrs A 
had complained about the delays.
Whilst I can see that RSAs case handler was proactively chasing C, the fact remains that C 
is RSAs agent. Consequently it is RSA that is responsible for Cs actions (or lack of). And I 
think, as Ive just set out above, it is evident that there was a reasonable amount of inaction 
on the part of C that caused avoidable to delay to Mrs As claim.
I see no reason why the investigations undertaken by C couldnt have been completed much 
quicker than the 7 months they took. Realistically, I would expect investigations of this nature 
to have reasonably taken no more than 4-6 weeks. The delays appear to me to be due to the 
big gaps between each site visit rather than the complexity of the investigations needed.
So, whilst I think that Mrs As claim isnt one thats covered by the policy terms, I do think 
that the delay in RSA conveying its decision on the claim to Mrs A caused her un-necessary 
distress and inconvenience. She has described the impact of that delay to us  the need to 
move into temporary accommodation because the drainage system wasnt working and the 
need to repeatedly have a tanker attend to clear out the system.
RSA accepted in its final response letter that Mrs A and her family has experienced distress 
throughout the period of the claim. And whilst all insurance claims attract a certain level of 
inconvenience, where an insurer, through its words or deeds, makes an already stressful 
situation worse, and causes avoidable trouble and upset, this service can require it to pay 
financial compensation to a consumer. I think the delays and poor customer service Mrs A 
experience did cause her avoidable trouble and upset and I think that our investigators 
proposed compensation payment of £500 is a reasonable one in all the circumstances
Miscellaneous
Whilst I note that Mrs A has said that C broke a clay pipe and damaged her soakaway field 
shes not provided any documentary evidence of either. Without such evidence I cant 
reasonably uphold this aspect of her complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part and to make Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc pay Mrs A compensation of £500 for the avoidable distress and 
inconvenience the delays in its handling of her claim caused her.
RSA replied to my provisional decision and said it thought compensation of £300-£400 was 
more along the lines of what it would look to offer. It admitted though that it had no further 
evidence to submit and that its thoughts about compensation were based on opinion and 
took into account the timescales for each individual visit. RSA said it agreed that the claim 
shouldnt have taken 7 months but each visit did require a thorough review and report so it 
didnt believe it was fair to include the time that all took within the overall delay period. It said 
itd be happy with £400 compensation. Mrs A, through her representative, replied to my provisional decision to say she wasnt 
pleased about the outcome. She made the following points: 
That the nature of the complaint had been lost over months of correspondence as the 
initial reason for complaining had been Cs inactivity;
Her primary concern was that works had not been completed despite fraudulent reports 
being issued by C; 
my decision is based on evidence containing inaccurate facts which she could reveal to 
be the case by obtaining her own independent drainage survey;
That no additional further works were completed after the initial CCTV survey of 11 
March 2021 and that included no installation of a structural lining or removal of root 
infestation;
That there was no documentary evidence to prove C undertook such works (in the form 
or delivery notices, invoices etc.);
There can be no CCTV beyond the first 3/4m of the 25-30 metre drainage run so an 
accurate survey hasnt been done;
It would be standard procedure to carry out a further CCTV survey after putting in the 
new structural lining so as there isnt one, it cant be proved such work was completed. A 
similar situation exists in relation to the clearance of the mass root infestation  (which 
Mrs A believes was never cleared);
The inspection holes dug at the 15m and 18m points were to confirm the system drained 
to a soakaway field rather than to identify a non-compliant soakaway which would allow 
the claim to be repudiated;
How could C confirm the pipe was full of water at the 15m and 18m points without 
damaging the pipe to see inside;
That Mrs As representative stood over the engineer when he broke into the pipe to find 
no standing water;
Mrs A wants to instruct her own survey to dig inspection holes at the exact same point to 
confirm that the pipe beneath was damaged by C and she will film the process; 
Whilst she accepts a soakaway has a finite life she doesnt feel the investigations have 
established that this is the case in respect of her drainage system;
That she had two horse chestnut trees felled 18 months previously and either they, or 
the machinery used to do so, couldve caused sudden an and accidental damage to the 
underground pipes;
The soakaway is located at the rear boundary of the property the other side of which is 
an agricultural field where heavy agricultural vehicles pass which again couldve caused 
accidental damage to the underground pipe;
The agricultural field has seen heavy rainfall so this couldve impacted the drainage field;
It is therefore clear that there are alternative reasons for the fields failure.
That the expert findings are misleading, false and unsubstantiated;
That it was unclear how the compensation figure of £500 was reached  she is still 
without a fully functioning drainage system and has been whilst pregnant and with a 
newborn baby. She was caused unacceptable stress and inconvenience;
That the hours Mrs A spent on the phone dealing with the claim have been overlooked;
Other inconveniences and damage should also be taken into consideration by me. Mrs A 
mentions that raw sewage sat in underground drains may have eroded mortar joints 
between pipes and the fabric of clay pipes themselves thereby significantly reducing the 
lifespan of the underground drainage system. She also mentions there may be impaired 
functionality to the septic tank as a result of the drainage field not working;
Her policy excess of £250 was collected by C at the start of the claim and not returned 
when the claim was repudiated;That it is not the policyholders responsibility to incur the cost of countering Cs findings 
but if it is necessary to do so Mrs A would like this service to instruct her that it is 
necessary in the hope that any costs incurred would be recovered from RSA.
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst a compensation payment of £300-£400 may well be more along the lines of what RSA 
would look to offer, unfortunately it made no such offer when it had the opportunity to do so 
despite the evidence existing that thered been poor claims handling (in the form of delays). I 
explained provisionally why I thought that compensation of £500 should fairly and 
reasonably be paid and nothing RSA has said in response to my provisional decision causes 
me to depart from the findings I made therein. 
The evidence RSA provided doesnt support its comment that each visit required a thorough 
review and a report. I set out the chronology of visits in my provisional decision. And there is 
only one report in existence that Ive seen (albeit one that was revised by C after a later visit) 
which itself isnt particularly lengthy. The comments it contains are to the point and, its 
reasonable to assume, cannot have taken too long to provide. So whilst Ive thought about 
RSAs comments that I shouldnt factor in the time taken to review and report after each visit 
Im afraid Ive seen no evidence that any such actions took place or, if they did, significantly 
contributed to the length of the claim such that I should be discounting the overall 7 month 
timeframe when thinking  about the amount of compensation it should be required to pay. To 
do so, in the absence of specific evidence illustrating where the time was taken, would not 
be reasonable.
So whilst Ive thought about RSAs comments in response to my provisional decision, they 
have not persuaded me to change my mind. 
Turning now to Mrs As response to my provisional decision, I set out in some detail 
provisionally what the nature of her complaint was  namely that she initially complained 
about the way her claim had been handled and then subsequently, later on, about its 
decision to decline the claim. So Im unable to agree with her that the nature of her complaint 
became lost. 
I appreciate that Mrs As primary concern must be that the works are not yet completed but, 
unless her claim for damage is covered by the policy, it is not the responsibility of RSA to 
undertake them. 
I know that Mrs A thinks that the report from C is fraudulent. Ive seen the email exchange 
between them where Mr A, on behalf of Mrs A, states that references in Cs updated report 
to the installation of the resin impregnated structural liner and the further CCTV inspection to 
report on the remainder of the pipework were fraudulent statements. Mr A comments that the 
report is silent on the dates and times engineers completed works and on the damage 
caused to the existing pipework at the 18m point on the run. I can see he invited C to provide 
evidence of when the works referred to were supposedly carried out. 
Cs report contains costings however - £730.83 for further investigation for example and 
£541.28 for repairs and sets out the works needed and undertaken. I cant ignore this report 
and its contents, that wouldnt be reasonable. Not without production of some evidence to 
counter what the report states or which supports Mr As statements that the works reported were never undertaken. Ive also seen RSAs system notes so I can see the times and dates 
when C has told it that visits/works have been undertaken; namely 4 March 2021, 11 March 
2021, 22 April 2021, 27 August 2021 and 30 September 2021. I appreciate too that Mrs A 
thinks its suspicious that theres no documentary evidence from C (in the form of delivery 
notes etc.) to prove it did the works it claimed but as it was C that was carrying out the 
works, its reasonable to assume it did so with its own equipment and supplies. So I wouldnt 
expect there to be any documentary evidence (aside from the report). 
So whilst I note Mrs As comments about the report containing fraudulent statements I cant 
reasonably make a finding that that was the case without seeing some evidence in support. 
And unfortunately, Ive seen no such evidence that would allow me to reasonably agree with 
her view on this issue. 
It is up to Mrs A if she wants to instruct her own expert to survey and report on her drains 
and the works C has reported it undertook. I cant advise her what to do as that isnt my role. 
I can only look at the evidence Im provided with and reach a fair and reasonable decision 
based on what I see. But should Mrs A obtain her own survey and report and it supports her 
view that C made an untruthful report to RSA then I would expect RSA to consider it. But the 
decision on whether to do so rests with Mrs A.
C said it in its report that it undertook a further CCTV inspection of the remainder of the 
pipework serving the soakaway. Mrs A said it didnt. For the same reasons I set out above, 
Id have to see some evidence that C was being untruthful about its statements to this effect 
in order to be able to fairly agree with Mrs A. It is reasonable to assume that the CCTV 
survey C said it returned and did was able to identify the pipe was full of water at the 15m 
and 18m points. The report makes no mention of C breaking the pipe open to establish that 
and Mrs A has provided no evidence to show that thats what happened. I know that Mr A 
says he stood over the engineer when he broke the pipe but no evidence  such as 
photographs  has been provided in support. 
I know that Mrs A thinks that not enough investigation was carried out to confirm the 
soakaway had failed but C is a drainage expert and I cant, in the absence of any evidence 
to the contrary, reasonably ignore the content of its report. 
The felling of the horse chestnut trees and the use of heavy agricultural machinery could 
arguably cause accidental damage to the underground pipes. However, there is no reported 
damage (aside from gradual tree root infestation which C removed and repaired) to any of 
the underground pipes at Mrs As property. The damage identified is to the soakaway. It is 
the soakaway that has ceased to function not the drainage run. And whilst I note that Mrs A 
is of the view that heavy rainfall couldve impacted the soakaway, theres no evidence that it 
did. Similarly I can only look at what has happened (and what has been complained about) 
and not what might have happened. So Im not going to consider Mrs As comment about 
raw sewage potentially corroding mortar joints or shortening the lifespan of the drains 
themselves. Any suggestion that this is what is happening seems to be purely speculative.
I appreciate that RSAs poor customer service caused Mrs A avoidable trouble and upset. 
The compensation figure of £500 was reached by having regard to this services approach to 
compensation awards in general. Our awards are not intended to be punitive but to 
recognise levels of avoidable distress and inconvenience caused to customers by financial 
businesses. Im satisfied, for the reasons I gave provisionally, that a compensation award of 
£500 is in line with awards made by this service in complaints of a similar nature and, taking 
all the circumstances of her complaint into account, fully recognises the impact RSAs poor 
customer service has had on Mrs A. As the claim has been repudiated, RSA should indeed return Mrs As policy excess. I 
understand from RSA that it instructed C to do so but if that has yet to happen, I would 
expect RSA to make sure it does without further delay. 
Putting things right
RSA should pay Mrs A compensation of £500 for the avoidable distress and inconvenience 
the delays in its handling of her claim caused her. If it hasnt done so already, it should return 
her policy excess.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance UK Plc to take the steps set by me above in the putting things right section of this 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman