DRN-3910007
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was given negligent advice by Robert Bruce Associates (RBA) to 
transfer benefits from his defined benefits (DB) pension scheme to a flexi-drawdown pension 
plan in 2012.
What happened
RBA transferred one of Mr Ms DB pensions for him in 2010. At the time he was also 
interested to transfer his then employers DB scheme benefits to access more tax-free cash. 
He needed to pay off debts as he was struggling to afford repayments.
However, Mr M was still an active member of his employers DB scheme at the time which 
meant he would have needed to opt-out of the scheme first if he wanted to transfer benefits. 
And in 2010 the minimum age was about to be raised from 50 to 55 (Mr M was 52). RBA 
informed Mr M there wasnt enough time to opt out, transfer and access benefits before 
those legislative changes. So Mr M ended up only transferring benefits from his larger DB 
scheme in 2010. The transfer advice he received in 2010 is subject of a separate complaint.
In April 2012, Mr M contacted RBA again to discuss accessing benefits from his DB scheme 
(he was nearly 55 and a deferred member at this point). He had asked another financial 
adviser firm to obtain a transfer value from his scheme shortly before he contacted RBA. 
Mr M wanted to access the maximum tax-free cash available from this pension. His 
representatives have explained that he used money he took from his other DB pension 2010 
to pay off the majority of his debts, but this wasnt enough.
RBA requested information from the DB scheme. On 5 July 2012, Mr M had a phone call 
with RBA. The notes show that Mr M acknowledged he could take benefits from his scheme 
now that he was 55, but as he didnt need the additional income wanted to transfer his 
pension into his existing drawdown plan and only take the tax-free cash.
On 9 July 2012, RBA wrote to Mr M confirming Mr M wanted to transfer his DB scheme into 
his existing drawdown plan. He was sent a variety of documents which he was told to read, 
sign where indicated and return. This included a letter saying he wished to proceed. 
Internal RBA notes show that the transfer was to proceed on: Against Advice letter & 
confirm that it [sic] outside of the guarantee period and state that the transfer value cannot 
be guaranteed. It can go up and it can go down.
On 10 July 2012, Mr M signed a letter to confirm that RBA had explained to him they would 
be carrying out the transaction at his explicit request and that it was against advice. He also 
said:
I fully understand that this course of action may not be in my long term best interests. I am 
also aware that a Drawdown Pension Plan is based on future fund performance, which 
cannot be guaranteed.
RBA issued their recommendation report on 24 July 2012. It said Mr M needed to pay some 
urgent bills and had no other way to pay them. He also had an outstanding loan of £24,000 
and a mortgage. It was noted Mr M likely couldnt re-mortgage or take out an additional loan 
as he couldnt afford any additional payments. He had no savings or other investments.
RBA said Mr M should consider the depletion of his pension funds simply to access tax-free 
cash as a last resort. His pension existed to support a decent standard of living in retirement 
and Mr M should be satisfied all other resources of obtaining capital should be researched. 
The report mentioned Mr M was proceeding against advice. It then recommended him to 
transfer his DB pension funds into his existing drawdown plan.
Mr M, through a representative, complained to RBA in 2020 about the advice he received.
RBA rejected the complaint and said they had appropriately advised him.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. RBA said the complaint had been made outside
the regulators time limits. I previously issued a decision in which I found the complaint was 
made in time. An investigator then considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.
In summary she said RBAs advice wasnt clear and whilst they referred in their suitability 
report and previous letters to the fact Mr M was going against advice, this was undermined 
by then making recommendations about where to transfer his pension to. She also didnt 
think Mr M would have fully understood the benefits he was giving up and what this decision 
meant for his retirement income in future. The investigator was also concerned that Mr M 
proceeded on an insistent client basis before the suitability report was issued and she didnt 
think he had a pressing need to take money from his pension. She didnt think RBA had 
treated Mr M fairly and if they had provided him with sufficient information during the advice 
process, he likely wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer and wouldve kept his DB 
benefits.
She recommended RBA to put Mr M into the position he would be in now if he had remained 
in the DB scheme by calculating losses in line with the regulators guidance on DB transfer 
redress.
RBA disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Who is the appropriate respondent to this complaint?
Robert Bruce Associates (RBA) became Robert Bruce Associated Limited (RBAL) in April 
2014. 
The advice subject to this complaint was given before April 2014 when the entity responsible 
for that advice was RBA rather than RBAL. I appreciate that RBAL have responded to the 
complaint as this is the current incarnation of the firm and I can see theres a deed poll from 
2014 of RBAL accepting responsibility for RBAs past business.
Where a firm has taken responsibility for another firm, S234B of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 gives this service discretion to set up a complaint against either against 
the predecessor or successor firm. Neither the provisions of a deed poll, nor the provisions of a contract between RBA and RBAL extinguish RBAs liability to Mr M. And generally we 
think its appropriate to set up the complaint against the firm which was originally responsible 
for the advice, so in this case RBA. 
Any agreement between RBA and RBAL to accept the liability is a matter between the firms 
but this wont affect which firm we consider the complaint against in any views or decisions 
we issue.
So in my view the appropriate respondent to this complaint is RBA. Ive treated all the 
submissions RBAL has made as being in respect of RBA. 
jurisdiction
RBA still thinks Mr M has complained too late and disagrees with my decision on jurisdiction. 
However, whilst they reiterated their arguments, they have not provided any new information 
and I remain satisfied for the reasons set out in my jurisdiction decision that this is a 
complaint I can consider.
Did RBA provide suitable advice to Mr M and did they treat him fairly?
There were no specific rules on insistent clients at the time of the advice. However, COBS 
2.1.1R required a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. The regulator also issued a factsheet to advisers in 2015 about their 
position on advising insistent clients. This was issued ten years after the advice given to Mr 
M, but when it was issued it was described by the regulator as a helpful reminder, so it 
didnt mark a change in good practice. So Ive also looked at RBAs actions in light of this.
The key steps to take in the regulators view were:
1. To provide suitable advice for the individual client and this advice must be clear to the
client
2. To be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against the advisers advice
Based on the letter he signed on 10 July 2012, I think Mr M would have understood that 
there were certain downsides to transferring his DB benefits and that he was proceeding 
against advice. Given RBAs letter a day before asking Mr M to sign the documents were 
indicated and referring to a letter he needed to provide confirming he wanted to proceed, I 
think the letter was likely drafted by RBA. However, Mr M signed it and so I think he would 
have been aware of the contents.
However, like the investigator, I think the advice process here was flawed in many ways.  
Mr M made his decision to transfer and was provided with all the necessary documents to 
proceed against advice before a suitability report was issued. Its unclear what exactly Mr M 
was told, before he made his decision, about his DB scheme benefits and what his 
retirement income would look like if he remained in the scheme. Ive seen no evidence that 
his plans for retirement and income objectives were properly discussed and meaningful 
comparisons were made between an income drawdown plan and his DB scheme in the long-
term. Mr M was an inexperienced investor, so Im doubtful that he would have understood 
what exactly he was giving up and the implications of his decision.
Mr M seems to have been allowed to make his decision only based on verbal discussions 
the extent and details of which are unclear. Im not satisfied that sufficient attention was 
given to the value of the benefits he was given up and that given the critical yields were unlikely to be matched with his attitude to risk, he would likely be significantly worse off in 
retirement. I also cant see that Mr M was informed about the risk of running out of funds in 
retirement and that he didnt really have the capacity to withstand significant losses to his 
pension.
The suitability report which followed mentions at the start Against Advice. And its repeated 
on several occasions that Mr M is proceeding against advice. I accept the report mentions 
that in different places that critical yields arent achievable and that a personal pension 
doesnt include the same guarantees as a DB scheme. However, there is not one clear 
section which summarises that the recommendation is not to proceed and why.
Instead the report says the option to leave the DB benefits in the scheme was discounted as 
it would not meet Mr Ms priorities. And this is explained before the DB benefits are even set 
out. I think this would likely lead Mr M to not pay much attention to the details of his benefits 
given that this option was already discounted.
In the section transfer recommendations RB says they recommend not to transfer but then 
straight away explain benefits of a personal pension including higher tax-free cash and pre-
retirement death benefits. It then sets out under plan recommendation:
It seems more appropriate to use the Personal Pension plan, as you have more investment 
freedom. The tax-free cash entitlement and death benefits would be greater than your 
current scheme.
There is a basic comparison of starting DB benefits and personal pension benefits at age 65, 
but its not explained how long income drawdown and at a certain rate would be supported. 
Large parts of the report are focussed on the different options to take benefits outside the 
DB scheme and RBAs recommendation in that regard.
Overall, I dont think Mr M was given sufficient information about the value of his benefits 
and the full risks of going into drawdown to make an informed choice. In order to give 
suitable advice advantages, disadvantages and risks of transferring should have been 
clearly explained. RBA should have explained why in their view a transfer wasnt in Mr Ms 
best interest and given a clear recommendation against it and all the reasons why. 
This wasnt in my view clear enough. The report gives mixed messages and switches 
between saying Mr M is going against advice and then setting out why the DB benefits dont 
meet his objectives and that transferring into his drawdown plan is suitable.
RBA knew Mr M was interested in taking a lump sum from his pension. So if they thought it 
was in his best interest not to proceed, they needed to make this clearer.
He was given all documents to proceed against advice before he was provided with full 
details of advice in the suitability report, so its doubtful how much he would have paid 
attention to this report in any event.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think RBA provided suitable advice or treated Mr M 
fairly in the way they provided their advice. 
 
What would Mr M have done if RBA had provided clear and suitable advice to Mr M?
I want to make it clear first that RBA was allowed to facilitate a transfer on an insistent client 
basis. Their failure here is not that they facilitated the transfer, but that they didnt provide 
proper and suitable advice before allowing Mr M to proceed.It's not my role to punish businesses for their errors. My aim is to put Mr M as much as 
possible back into the position he would be in now if RBA had treated him fairly.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ms position in 2012, his actions in 2010 as well as in the 
following years and on the balance of probabilities I think he still would have transferred out 
of his DB scheme and into drawdown. Ill explain why.
Mr M approached RBA to release money from his pension. Looking at the notes from the 
time of the advice its recorded that Mr M had an outstanding mortgage of £120,000. He also 
had a secured loan of £24,000. He had no savings or other assets.
Like I said before, Mr Ms representatives have confirmed Mr M still had outstanding debts 
and needed the money. I dont think its in dispute that a re-mortgage likely wasnt possible, 
another personal loan would not alleviate his financial worries and he had no other 
investments he could encash. 
Mr M didnt need additional income and his DB benefits would have been likely significantly 
reduced (ten years before normal retirement age). So I think if Mr M wanted funds from his 
pension immediately, his only real option was to transfer.
Mr Ms representatives say options like a debt management plan or borrowing from friends 
and family wasnt explored by RBA. And if it had, these are the options Mr M would have 
pursued. RBA might not have mentioned these options specifically, however they did make it 
clear that alternatives should be explored and accessing his pension should be a last resort.
Its not certain that Mr M would have wanted or be able to borrow from friends and family or 
that he could have entered a debt management plan which would have been sufficient to 
support him enough. I note that Mr M would have been able to release around £30,000 from 
his DB pension in 2010, but still chose to take the maximum additional income available 
(over £6,000) even though it was taxed. Mr Ms representatives say he was able to pay off 
the majority of his debts. However, at the time of this advice in 2012, he still had the same 
outstanding loan of £24,000 and even though he was working and was receiving additional 
income from his first transfer, he still required more money. So I think his financial difficulties 
possibly might have gone beyond the debts he told RBA about.
Ive also considered the information I have about what Mr M did in the following years. 
Mr M accessed his pension regularly and was withdrawing large sums. As soon as pension 
freedoms came in in 2015 he requested a withdrawal of over £33,000 (this didnt proceed in 
the end). In April 2016, he requested a withdrawal of £25,000 to pay off a secured loan with 
monthly payments of around £500. Telephone notes from 2017 record Mr M said he had 
accrued debts of over £100,000 (Im assuming this included his outstanding mortgage) and 
he had two businesses over the year and had been made redundant and been out of a job 
for a long time. He was now working again. His new employer was providing a pension and 
together with his state pension that should be enough. He wanted to withdraw all his current 
pension (which had been funded with the DB transfers in 2010 and 2012) over the next three 
to four years and pay off his mortgage. 
Taking all of the above into account I think on balance Mr M would have decided to transfer 
his DB pension in any event. I think even if RBA had provided him with better advice in 2012 
and he had fully understood the implications of what he was giving up, I dont think he had 
many alternatives to alleviate his financial struggles. Im satisfied from his letters that he did 
know taking money from his pension wasnt in his long-term best interest. And he decided 
his immediate needs were more important than a regular, guaranteed income in retirement.As I said above, I dont think Mr M would have fully understood the risks of his actions and 
the value of the benefits he was giving up. However, even if he had received full and clear 
information I think he would have likely seen this as his only real option and would have 
proceeded anyway.
Even if he had paused at that point and tried to get by for a bit longer, its clear that in the 
following years he needed lump sums again and remained in debt even after accessing lump 
sums and income from his pension. He was warned in 2016 to withdraw less income and 
was warned every time he made a withdrawal request that taking lump sums would increase 
the risk of running out of funds and could cause financial difficulty in later life. Mr M took 
large sums out regardless and in 2017 he even acknowledged and accepted he would 
deplete this pension over the following few years.
So I think on the balance of probabilities Mr M would have come out of his DB scheme 
eventually and spent the money on clearing his debts. I can also see on several occasions 
he was looking for lump sums to spend on his daughters wedding and visit her overseas. 
Summary
RBA failed in their obligations here and didnt treat Mr M fairly. However, I think even if they 
had acted appropriately, on balance Mr M would have left his DB scheme. Most likely in 
2012 and if not then at some point in the following years.
So I dont think Mr Ms potential losses he suffered by transferring out of his DB scheme are 
caused by RBAs flawed advice and so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require 
RBA to compensate Mr M for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
RBA agreed with my decision. They mentioned that in November 2022 Mr M had requested 
to withdraw further funds and that he had insisted it was his money and that he could do 
what he wanted with it. RBA believes this supports their position that Mr Ms view was his 
pension fund was his and for him to use it as he wished. RBA also noted that they felt I 
applied more recent guidance on how to deal with insistent clients (the factsheet of 2015) to 
advice given in 2012 when there were no such requirements at the time.
Mr Ms representatives disagreed with my decision. In summary they said:
If Mr M had received suitable advice he wouldnt have accessed his DB scheme (as 
this wasnt possible at the time due to his age) and he wouldnt have transferred.
It was unreasonable to make the assumption RBA had provided Mr M with 
alternatives to obtaining funds to relieve his financial difficulties when the file 
suggests otherwise. They said my decision should be based on facts and not 
speculation. Its not clear which alternatives were explored at the time and Mr M says 
no alternatives were discussed. Mr M didnt approach other alternatives as these 
werent sufficiently explained to him.
Its evident RBAs advice prompted subsequent actions from Mr M. Mr M says he 
contacted RBA for drawdown advice on several occasions and withdrawals were 
dealt with swiftly and without issue. Whenever he needed funds he contacted RBA to 
facilitate the drawdown payments.RBA continued to provide Mr M with unsuitable advice and should have highlighted 
the risks of accessing his pension in large increments. There was no obligation on 
RBA to facilitate the requests for Mr M if they didnt think they were in his best 
interest.
I should consider RBAs advice process and not speculate on subsequent actions 
that took place. It was RBA wo gave him the knowledge he could access his pension 
and who continued his requests for withdrawals.
I considered all further comments provided. However, my decisions remains the same. Ill 
explain why.
I note RBAs comments about what Mr M allegedly said to them more recently and how he 
insisted on accessing his money, however I havent seen any evidence of this and so I 
havent considered this in my decision. With regards to retrospective application of 2015 
guidance on insistent clients to advice given in 2012, I refer back to my provisional findings 
where I explained that this wasnt new guidance but a reminder for advisers. So I still do 
consider it relevant.
As I set out in my provisional decision, the advice process was flawed and RBA failed in their 
obligations to provide Mr M with all relevant information about the advantages of his DB 
scheme and the full risks of transferring out.
However, in order to hold them responsible for Mr Ms losses, I do need to consider whether 
RBAs failures in fact caused Mr Ms losses. And based on the evidence available Im not 
persuaded this is the case here.
I never said every available alternative was discussed in detail. But its not disputed that a 
re-mortgage, another loan or using any other available assets were considered to be 
unavailable options.  And the suitability report made it clear that:
You should consider the depletion of your pension fund, simply to access the Tax Free Cash 
as a last resort. Your pension fund exists to help support a decent standard of living in your
retirement years. Before proceeding with this course of action you should therefore be 
satisfied that all other sources of obtaining the capital you require have been researched.
So I cant agree with Mr Ms statement now that no alternatives were discussed. I appreciate 
Mr Ms representatives saying he would have used a debt management plan or borrowed 
from family and friends if this had been explored. However, whilst I appreciate its quite 
possible this wasnt explicitly mentioned, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded 
these would have been viable routes for Mr M. As I explained previously, the way he 
accessed his pension and remained in debt despite receiving large amounts of cash 
indicates that his financial difficulty was more severe than he disclosed to the adviser.
Im not speculating, but making a finding based on the evidence I have and what I think likely 
would have happened on the balance of probabilities. And I remain of the view, that Mr M 
likely would have transferred out of the DB scheme either immediately or at a later date even 
if he had received properly reasoned advice. Whilst there were clear failings in the advice I 
think Mr M would have understood that taking money now would not be in his long-term best 
interest. But I think he likely didnt have any other reasonable alternatives available to him.
Mr M approached RBA to explore accessing his pension. And I see no issue with them 
explaining this option to him. As I said the advice was flawed, but I think even with better 
advice Mr M would have eventually transferred out of his DB scheme.Mr M was given warnings by RBA throughout the years to withdraw less income and was 
warned every time he made a withdrawal request that taking lump sums would increase the 
risk of running out of funds and could cause financial difficulty in later life. And he proceeded 
regardless even expressing in 2017 his plan to deplete his funds over the course of three 
years.
It's true that RBA could have refused to facilitate withdrawals. However, Mr M didnt need 
their assistance. He could have accessed his funds directly from his pension provider and 
given he wanted to access his funds and ignored RBAs warnings I think on the balance of 
probabilities he would have done so.
Overall, I think on the balance of probabilities having considered the evidence Ive seen and 
the facts of this case, I think Mr M would have transferred out of his DB scheme and 
accessed his pension like he has done even if he had received better advice. So it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable to hold RBA responsible for Mr Ms current situation and any financial  
losses he suffered.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman