DRN-4367711
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited did after he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D has legal expenses insurance with Amtrust (provided as part of his home insurance 
policy). In February 2021 he sought assistance with a claim he wanted to bring against his 
employer. Having obtained further information about that claim Amtrust asked a panel 
solicitor to assess whether it had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the 
policy). A solicitor at that firm advised it didnt in April 2021. 
Mr D pursued the claim privately and reached a settlement with his employer in October 
2022. He contacted Amtrust again as he believed that showed his claim had been unfairly 
declined. Amtrust said it was entitled to rely on the legal opinion it had previously been 
provided with. 
Our investigator agreed and didnt think there had been any avoidable delay by Amtrust in 
progressing the claim. Mr D said hed been wrongly advised by Amtrust to withdraw his claim 
and return to work. And he disputed that it didnt meet the prospects of success requirement 
set out in his policy. He didnt believe Amtrust had taken the claim seriously. So I need to 
reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy. These say at any time We may, 
but only when supported by independent legal advice, form the view that You do not have a 
more than 50% chance of winning the case and achieving a positive outcome. If so, We may 
decline support or any further support. And its usual for legal expenses insurance policies 
to contain a term like this. 
Mr D says referring the claim to a separate firm for an assessment of its prospects of 
success shows Amtrust didnt know what it was doing. I dont agree with him on that. An 
insurer isnt a legal expert and so we dont think its in a position to carry out a legal 
assessment. It should be carried out by a suitably qualified lawyer who has relevant 
experience. Where that has been done we think its reasonable for an insurer to rely on a 
properly written and reasoned legal opinion when deciding whether a claim has prospects of 
success or not. 
In this case Amtrust did refer the matter to one of its panel firms for assessment. I think that 
was the right thing for it to do and I can see that assessment was carried out by a qualified 
lawyer whose area of practice includes employment law. Ive read the assessment and I 
think it is properly written and reasoned; it addresses the claim made by Mr D and gives 
reasons for why its unlikely to succeed.
I recognise Mr D disagrees with that assessment but I dont think there was any reason 
why Amtrust shouldnt have relied on it. And the fact that Mr D did achieve a subsequent 
settlement with his employer doesnt mean Amtrust was wrong to rely on the assessment 
either. A negative prospects assessment doesnt mean a customer has no chance of 
winning their case; just that its unlikely. And there may have been other factor that led the 
employer to offer a settlement in this case. 
However, we would expect an insurer to reconsider matters if a policyholder provided more 
evidence or a favourable legal opinion from a qualified lawyer. And wed also expect an 
insurer to make it clear to the customer when they reject the claim that it will do this. In this 
case I cant see Amtrust did that. 
Ive thought about whether Mr D lost out because of that. He hasnt provided any new 
information or obtained a contrary legal opinion in the correspondence Ive seen. If he is now 
able to provide a positive legal opinion from a suitably qualified lawyer on what his claims 
prospects of success would have been at the point it was turned down Id expect Amtrust to 
reconsider matters. But on the basis of the evidence currently available I cant conclude hes 
lost out because of anything it got wrong here. 
Ive also considered whether Amtrust caused any issues with the handling of Mr Ds claim. I 
dont think it did. I think it was reasonable of it to initially seek clarification from Mr D on the 
issues he was raising and why he thought his employer had been at fault. And once it had 
received more information on that I cant see there was significant delay in matters then 
being referred to the panel solicitor for assessment. 
Mr D says Amtrust suggested he withdraw his claim and return to work. But I cant see 
reference to that in the correspondence Ive seen. I appreciate the advice from the panel 
solicitor did set out some possible next steps that Mr D might want to consider which 
included thinking about returning to work (the solicitor was concerned not doing so might 
lead to his dismissal). However, that isnt something Amtrust is responsible for; if Mr D is 
dissatisfied with the action of that firm he might be able to pursue a separate complaint with 
it and to the Legal Ombudsman if he remains unhappy. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman