DRN-3830068
The complaint
Mr B complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
He says that HSBC didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a scam 
and would like HSBC to refund him the money he has lost as a result.
What happened
Mr B was contacted by an individual online who said they were able to help him trade 
cryptocurrency through a company and earn a profit. Mr B was persuaded to download 
software onto his computer for the individual to trade on his behalf.
Initially, Mr B was persuaded to part with a small sum of money and was told he was making 
a profit. Mr B was then persuaded to invest further sums. However, when Mr B told the 
individual he wanted to withdraw his supposed profits, he was told that he had to pay more 
money in order to make a withdrawal. Mr B then realised that he was being scammed.
He complained to HSBC, but it did not uphold his complaint.
Unhappy, he brought his complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked into things and 
thought that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in part.
Mr B accepted the view  but I believe he thinks that our Investigator has upheld the 
complaint from payment two. But this is not correct. The complaint was upheld from payment 
four. 
HSBC did not accept this. So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint, for broadly the same 
reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why.
Was Mr B the victim of a scam?
I dont think that it is in dispute here that Mr B was the victim of a scam. He was contacted by 
someone offering investment and told to download software onto his computer  and then 
when it came to making a withdrawal was told that he had to pay more money in order to do 
so. These are not the actions of a reputable company.
Mr B made the following payments as part of the scam.
Date Payee Payment type Amount
1 April 2021 B Debit card £2,000
8 April 2021 B Debit card £2,500
8 April 2021 B Debit card £2,500
8 April 2021 B Debit card £2,300
12 April 2021 B Debit card £4,800
14 April 2021 B Debit card £5,000
14 April 2021 B Debit Card £2,200
14 April 2021 B Debit card £250
26 April 2021 B Debit card £2,180.61
29 April 2021 B Debit card £507
7 May 2021 B Debit card £2,170
26 May 2021 B Debit card £100
26 May 2021 B Debit card £4,900
Total £31,407.61
Mr B has confirmed that a payment of £5,000 which was made on 7 May 2021 was returned 
to him by HSBC.
Did Mr B authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr B isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
I dont think its in dispute that Mr B authorised the payments in question here as he has told 
HSBC that he made the payments. 
I understand Mr B had been tricked into instructing HSBC to make the payments  but while 
Mr B never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact he 
authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of Mr Bs payments
After Mr B made the payments, I wouldnt expect HSBC to do anything further until it was 
notified of the scam.
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card issuers (here, HSBC) and the merchant (here, B).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would unlikely have been successful. This is 
because B is a legitimate crypto exchange and provided the services that Mr B had 
requested of it  the purchase of crypto and subsequently moving that crypto onto a wallet of 
Mr Bs choosing. What happened after that crypto was successfully moved is therefore a 
separate matter  and so a successful chargeback would likely never have been possible  
and so I dont think that these payments were recoverable once they had been made.
Should HSBC have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that HSBC reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all the payments Mr B made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss before 
it happened.
Mr B authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, HSBC should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This leads me to consider the payments that Mr B made  and if HSBC should have 
intervened.
The first three payments
Although the first three payments Mr B made were larger than his usual spend, individually I 
do not think that they were sufficiently unusual to have triggered HSBC into taking any 
further action before processing Mr Bs request to make the payments. While I understand 
that the payments were going to a crypto exchange, not all such payments are as a result of 
a scam, and as Ive explained above there is a balance to be struck and businesses arent 
able to intervene in every such transaction. 
The fourth payment
By the time the fourth payment had been made, Mr B had made three large payments to a 
crypto exchange in a matter of minutes  and I think that HSBC should have intervened. This was a significant change in the way Mr B usually operated his account and a large sum of 
money had now left Mr Bs account in a short space of time.
These payments shouldve stuck out to HSBC as being uncommon, especially given that by 
January 2019, HSBC should already have had a good understanding about how scams like 
the one Mr B fell victim to work.
With this in mind, HSBC should reasonably have contacted Mr B to establish whether the 
transaction posed any possibility of placing him in financial harm before processing it. But it 
did not do so. If HSBC had done so, I wouldve expected it to have questioned Mr B about 
the payment  including what he was trying to make the payments for and surrounding 
context and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential 
fraud or scam. But it did not do so.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr B was coached or told to lie about the payments he was 
making, so I think that had HSBC contacted him to discuss the payments he would have told 
it what had happened and what he was doing.
Once HSBC has established what was going on, I think it should have known that Mr B was 
very likely being scammed  and given him a meaningful warning to this effect. And I dont 
think that Mr B would have ignored such a warning and continued to make the payments.
So, I think that HSBC could have prevented the loss from this point.
Should Mr B bear some responsibility for the loss?
While I do consider that HSBC should have prevented the payments from the fourth 
payment, I do also need to consider if Mr B should bear some responsibility for the loss by 
way of contributory negligence.
However, I dont think that this would be appropriate in this instance. Mr B was not a 
sophisticated investor and didnt have much knowledge about investing or crypto. He was 
also not used to using technology at the time. HSBC was the expert here  and had more 
knowledge on the intricacies of these types of scams.
I understand that HSBC has concerns about previous claims Mr B has made. It thinks that 
Mr B should have applied more caution to the payments he was making and being wary of 
unsolicited calls. It says that when it chose to refund Mr B for unrecognised transactions, it 
provided a letter directing customers to HSBCs security centre where more information is 
provided about fraud and scams. But this isnt the same as providing a meaningful warning 
to Mr B - and Mr B told HSBC that these other payments had been made without his 
knowledge, whereas these payments Mr B says he authorised. So, I dont think this makes a 
difference here. 
Putting things right
HSBC should refund Mr B the payments made from payment four onwards.
I calculate this to be £24,407.61.
On top of this, HSBC should also pay Mr B 8% simple interest, from the date the payments 
were made, until payment is made to Mr B.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman