DRN-4451433
The complaint
Mr B complains Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) supplied him with a car that he 
believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
The details of this case are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them. The facts are 
not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
In October 2023, I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. I said:
The investigator has outlined in full the circumstances surrounding this complaint so I wont 
repeat them in full. But in summary, they found the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply 
due to a number of faults, but mainly due to the fault with the air mass sensor. He relied on 
job cards and the findings of the independent inspections when reaching his outcome. He 
found there had been at least one opportunity to repair by the dealership but faults remained 
with the car. Both parties accept the car wasnt of satisfactory quality so I wont comment on 
this further. 
The investigator recommended a number of things Oodle must do to put things right. 
Although Mr B broadly accepts the findings, he said he believes the actions of the dealership 
and Oodle were premeditated. He comments on the delays and the lack of response from 
them about the complaint. He says the £2,000 deposit was paid directly to the dealership 
and he questions the charges related to the mileage.
I wish to assure Mr B Ive carefully considered what he has said. I appreciate this situation 
has been going on for quite some time which has caused him frustration and inconvenience 
but I cant reasonably agree that Oodle nor the dealership have gone out of their way to 
cause these issues. It is an unfortunate set of circumstances and Im sorry to hear the car 
didnt perform as he expected. 
Similar to the investigator, I agree that in order to put things right Oodle should allow 
rejection of the car and end the agreement. They should collect the car at no cost to Mr B 
and refund the cash deposit of £2,000. 
I note Oodles comments that once the car is returned it would be subject to inspections for 
damage and they will also consider the mileage Mr B has covered. However I dont find this 
would be fair for them to do so. This is because Im recommending the agreement is 
unwound. Essentially given the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, Im seeking to put Mr B as 
close to the position he wouldve been in had he not entered into the agreement at all. For 
that reason, in the event damage is found to the car, I dont find it would be reasonable for 
them to charge Mr B for the same or for excess mileage (calculated on a pro rata basis). 
Mr B has provided evidence he paid around £100 for a diagnostic report from a 
manufacturer approved garage. As this evidence found the fault which meant the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality, Oodle should reimburse the same. 
Although there were faults with the car, based on the amount of miles covered by Mr B its 
clear it didnt prevent him from using it. So its fair for him to pay for the use of the car 
therefore I wont be asking Oodle to refund the monthly instalments he paid. But instead 
refund 5% of the monthly instalments paid to reflect the impaired use. 
I can see Oodle was willing to consider the costs incurred by Mr B for use of a hire car upon 
receipt of evidence. From my understanding, they have agreed to pay one invoice but Mr B 
says theres others they should reimburse him for. He has provided copies of the invoices 
but Oodle says it isnt sufficient as its not on headed paper, there are no details of the hire 
firm nor does it show its VAT registered. Having seen the evidence, which are hand written 
invoices, I believe its fair for Oodle to say it isnt enough. Equally based on the mileage, it 
was clear Mr B was still using the car, he had covered around 1000 miles in the month of 
October 2022. Once the car was returned for repair in December 2022, he was provided with 
a courtesy car to keep him mobile. I wont be asking Oodle to refund any further invoices for 
the hire car.
When taking out this finance agreement it included around £1,400 of negative equity from a 
previous agreement that the dealership settled. This meant this amount was added to the 
agreement with Oodle. Even though Im saying the agreement must come to an end, I wont 
be asking Oodle to write off this negative equity amount, as Mr B would unfairly benefit from 
the same. I believe its fair for Oodle to offset the above refunds against the negative equity. 
If upon calculating the above this leaves a balance due from Mr B then I believe its fair he 
pays this to Oodle. Theyve said he must pay this first before they consider unwinding the 
agreement but I dont find that to be reasonable. They should put things right as Ive outlined 
and if theres a balance owed, Mr B should pay this. In the event he is experiencing financial 
difficulty or unable to pay this as a lump sum, I wish to remind Oodle of the expectation he is 
treated with due consideration and forbearance.
Lastly, given the likely impact of this situation on Mr B including multiple trips to the garage 
for repair and the extent of his communication with Oodle and the dealership, I find Oodle 
should pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Overall, Im not satisfied the car supplied to Mr B was of satisfactory quality due to the fault 
with the air mass sensor. So to put things right, he should now be allowed to reject the car 
and be reimbursed costs as outlined above. However Oodle can take into account the 
amount they paid to settle Mr Bs previous car finance agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B provided no further comment. Oodle confirmed there was around £1,400 of negative 
equity in this agreement so the deposit wouldnt be refunded. However I wish to reiterate Ive 
already considered this. I said any refunds should be offset against the negative equity. 
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint.To put things right, Oodle Financial Services Limited must:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Mr B to pay;
- Collect the car at no cost to Mr B;
- Refund the £2,000 cash deposit plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date it 
was paid up to the date of settlement;
- Refund 5% of the monthly instalments paid to reflect impaired use plus pay 8% 
simple interest per year from the date it was paid up to the date of settlement;
- Reimburse Mr B for the cost of the diagnostic report in October 2022 plus pay 8% 
simple interest per year from the date it was paid up to the date of settlement;
- The above refunds should be offset against the negative equity;
- Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Bs credit file;
- Pay £150 compensation to Mr B for the trouble and upset caused. 
*If Oodle Financial Services Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest part 
of my award it should provide Mr B with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so 
he can reclaim that amount if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman