DRN-2898231
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G have complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a 
claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G had a leak from under their bath. So, they contacted Aviva to make a claim 
for the damage caused. Aviva accepted the claim and arranged for contractors to inspect the 
damage. 
While the claim was progressing, Aviva arranged for asbestos tests to be carried out, which 
came back negative. Aviva started work to repair the damage but then arranged to cash 
settle the claim as it said it couldnt meet Mr G and Mrs Gs expectations about the work. 
Mr G and Mrs G also continued to raise concerns about the first asbestos test. When Aviva 
later carried out further tests, asbestos was found. 
Mr G and Mrs G complained to Aviva. They were concerned that the first asbestos test was 
incorrect and that some of the work then had to be redone so that the asbestos could be 
dealt with.
When Aviva replied it accepted there had been issues with the first asbestos test and that 
this meant further works needed to be carried out when the asbestos was later found. It 
offered Mr G and Mrs G £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience due to the 
additional anxiety caused and the disruption caused by the additional works.
Mr G and Mrs G complained to this service. Our investigator said it would have caused Mr G 
and Mrs G inconvenience when some works had to be redone when asbestos was found 
following further testing and it was understandable that they were concerned about asbestos 
in their home. He said Aviva had offered alternative accommodation early in the claim and 
that Mr G and Mrs G had decided to live in a caravan at their home. He said Aviva had acted 
reasonably by then offering them a disturbance allowance while they lived in the caravan. 
Our investigator said the compensation offered was reasonable in the circumstances to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of the claim.
As Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require Aviva to do anything further. I will explain why.
Aviva initially agreed to carry out the work to repair Mr G and Mrs Gs home. However, Mr G 
and Mrs G were unhappy about a number of aspects of the work carried out and so Aviva 
said it would cash settle the claim as it couldnt meet their expectations. I can see that as the 
claim progressed other issues arose, such as a damaged sofa, and that Aviva also 
addressed those issues. Aviva dealt with these issues as part of a separate complaint, so I 
wont be considering them in my decision.
Mr G and Mrs G were concerned that the asbestos tests werent correctly carried out in their 
home. From what Ive seen, Aviva did look into those concerns and didnt find any reason to 
think the tests hadnt been correctly carried out. However, due to Mr G and Mrs Gs ongoing 
concerns, which they raised on a number of occasions, Aviva later agreed to carry out the 
asbestos tests again. At that point asbestos was found. Mr G and Mrs G were concerned 
that they and other people had been in their home while the asbestos was present. Aviva 
carried out tests and didnt find any evidence that asbestos was in the air. Nonetheless, I can 
understand that Mr G and Mrs G were concerned by this possibility and also that, if they 
hadnt continued to raise their concerns, the asbestos might not have been found.
Aviva also had to remove the bathroom ceiling, which Mr G and Mrs G had already replaced, 
in order to investigate the asbestos. Aviva then paid a further cash settlement in order for Mr 
G and Mrs G to replace the ceiling again. Aviva also continued to pay the disturbance 
allowance to take into account the additional disruption, including Mr G and Mrs G having to 
continue to use the caravan.
Aviva offered £400 compensation for the anxiety and disruption caused by the asbestos only 
being found after the second test was carried out. So, Ive thought about whether this 
amount was reasonable and in my view it was. Im aware that Mr G and Mrs G were 
concerned about the potential health issues because of the asbestos not being detected by 
the first test. However, when the asbestos was found, Aviva checked whether asbestos was 
present in the atmosphere and didnt find anything to indicate it was. So, I can understand 
this would have caused Mr G and Mrs G anxiety, but I think Aviva took steps to ensure the 
asbestos was dealt with and to assess whether there were any likely risks to health.
Im also aware that Mr G and Mrs G have said that although their friend had allowed them to 
use the caravan, due to the amount of time it took to deal with the claim, they eventually had 
to buy it. So, Ive also thought about this. 
Aviva offered Mr G and Mrs G alternative accommodation towards the start of the claim. 
However, they declined this and made a private agreement with a friend to use the caravan. 
As a result, Aviva said it would pay Mr G and Mrs G a disturbance allowance, as well as for 
some items they needed for the caravan. Due to the amount of time it took to resolve the 
claim, Aviva also reviewed the disturbance allowance and increased the amount it was 
paying. I accept that the work took longer than it should have and that this therefore may 
well have been beyond what Mr G and Mrs G had initially agreed with their friend, but I dont 
think that means Aviva was responsible for them then buying the caravan. Aviva offered 
alternative accommodation and paid a disturbance allowance when accommodation was 
declined, which is what I would have expected it to do.
So, thinking about all of the above, there were a number of issues during this claim, 
particularly with the asbestos. However, I think the steps Aviva took to address the issues 
and the compensation it offered were reasonable in the circumstances. As a result, I dont 
require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that Aviva Insurance Limited doesnt 
need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman