DRN-1435558
 
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about an increase to the interest rate on his credit card account in June 
2018 and a refusal to grant him a loan.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of the account set out the charges and fees that are 
applied to Mr Rs account, including the interest rate applied. Santander has applied 
the charges to his account fairly and in line with the accounts terms and conditions.
Santander wrote to Mr Rs correct mailing address to explain the rate of interest 
would be increasing, his monthly minimum payment could increase and that it may 
take longer to repay any outstanding balance.  It also said how to check the new 
interest rate and what to do if he didnt accept the new rate changes. Mr R was 
therefore told of the change and how it affected him. And as it didnt hear from him 
the new rate changes took effect. I think Santander has acted fairly in these regards.
Mr R applied for a loan. But after making checks Santander declined it, as its entitled 
to do. Ive seen nothing to indicate it acted unfairly or unreasonably by doing so. And 
its not obliged to agree to Mr Rs proposals about how he wants to arrange his 
borrowing. Declining his loan application is an example of Santander exercising its 
commercial judgment in which I cannot interfere. 
Mr R is also unhappy that his credit file has been adversely affected by whats 
happened. But Santander has an obligation to accurately record the conduct of his 
account. It has done so here, so I cant reasonably ask it to change what has been 
recorded.  
If Mr R considers he is experiencing financial difficulty he should contact Santander 
to arrange an affordable repayment plan for the outstanding balance he owes. I 
would also remind Santander of its obligation to treat Mr R positively and 
sympathetically if he is in financial difficulty.
Taking everything into account, although I recognise Mr Rs strength of feeling and 
frustration, I think Santander has acted fairly and I dont think I can reasonably 
require it to do anything more or differently.
 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman