DRN-3231712
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc said he had a missed payment to his credit card 
when payments of more than the minimum amount were made during the statement period.
What happened
Mr B received a letter in July 2021 from HSBC saying that he had missed a payment on his 
credit card. He says that during the statement period over £480 of payments were made 
towards his credit card account which was a higher amount than the £62 minimum payment. 
However, as the payments were in the form of refunds following flight cancellations these 
werent counted as payments. Mr B doesnt think this is right.
HSBC issued its final response in July 2021 saying that refunds were considered as account 
credits and not payments. It said that while this isnt specifically advised in its terms and 
conditions the credit card agreement explains that a customer must always make at least the 
minimum payment by the due date.
Mr B said given that information about refunds not being counted as payments wasnt 
specifically included in the terms and conditions it wasnt reasonable to expect him to be 
aware of this. Mr B wants HSBC to confirm that the missed payment hasnt been reported to 
the credit reference agencies and if it has then for this information to be rescinded. He also 
wants £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Mr B was required to make the 
minimum payment as set out in the credit card agreement and while the refunds reduce the 
account balance these didnt count as payments.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated his point that credits were made 
to his account for amounts more than the minimum payment and that the terms and 
conditions didnt set out that these wouldnt be treated as payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr B was upset when he received a letter about a missed payment. He 
has explained that he has been a HSBC customer for many years and always makes his 
payments on time. I also understand his strength of feeling about this issue and his concerns 
about the impact on his credit file, and other customers who may have experienced the 
same issue. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that 
HSBC had done something wrong or treated Mr B unfairly.
Mr B hasnt disputed that he needed to make a minimum payment each month by a certain 
due date as set out in his statements and he has explained that he always does this. 
However, he believed the refunds he received should have been treated as payments. I 
understand the point he has made, but refunds are not considered as payments and while 
they do reduce the outstanding account balance they do not reduce or remove the 
requirement for the minimum monthly payment to be made. I appreciate Mr B doesnt think 
this is right but this is HSBCs usual practice and so I cannot say that a mistake has been 
made or that Mr B has been treated unfairly.
I note the comment about this issue not being specifically addressed in the terms and 
conditions but I also accept that the credit agreement explained the need for the customer to 
make at least the minimum payment each month and in this case Mr B didnt do this. HSBC 
has confirmed that no adverse information was recorded on Mr Bs credit file and so I cannot 
say that this issue has caused Mr B any detriment, although I note the upset he has been 
caused. 
In conclusion, I understand this issue has been frustrating and upsetting for Mr B. However, 
as I do not find I can say that HSBC has done anything wrong, or treated Mr B unfairly, I do 
not find that I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman