DRN-4223036
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy because Sainsburys Bank Plc declined his disputed transaction claim.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr G purchased tickets from a merchant and paid using his Sainsburys credit 
card. The purchase price of the tickets was £1,172.34.
In June 2022 Mr G contacted Sainsburys to dispute the transaction. He said that although 
hed received the tickets, hed been declined entry to the event.
Sainsburys raised a disputed transaction. The merchant challenged the claim and provided 
evidence that the tickets had been scanned at the turnstile. Sainsburys received the 
merchants evidence on 7 September 2022 but didnt review it until 5 October 2022. On 8 
October 2022 Sainsburys asked Mr G for further information to support his version of events 
but by the time Mr G replied, over 45 days had passed since the merchants response and 
the chargeback was out of time. Sainsburys declined the claim.
Mr G complained to Sainsburys about the outcome. Sainsburys said it had declined the 
chargeback correctly because Mr G had been provided with the goods hed paid for. 
Sainsburys acknowledged that it had taken too long to review the evidence it had received 
from the merchant and credited Mr Gs account with £100 in recognition of the delay in 
providing him with the outcome of his claim.
Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Mr G didnt dispute that he had 
been provided with the tickets and the merchant had provided evidence that the tickets had 
been used at the turnstiles.
Mr G didnt agree. He said the steward at the turnstile had told him his ticket wasnt genuine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer checks the 
complaint against the possible chargeback reasons to see what sort of evidence is required 
and under what timescales. This is so it can decide whether or not it can make a successful 
claim for the customer. Card issuers dont have to submit claims and they will only do so if 
they believe they have evidence that will support a chargeback claim so that it will be 
successful. This service expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to 
raise a chargeback if there is little prospect of success.
Ive looked at the available information to see whether or not Sainsburys acted reasonably 
when it declined the chargeback.
Mr G doesnt dispute that he received the tickets from the merchant. But hes said that when 
he attempted to go through the turnstiles, he was stopped and told by the steward that the 
tickets werent genuine.
The relevant chargeback code for Mr Gs disputed transaction is goods or services not 
provided. So, in order to make a successful claim Mr G would need to provide evidence that 
the services werent received.
In this case, the merchant has provided evidence which shows that the tickets were 
successfully scanned at the turnstile. So, it seems unlikely that the tickets werent genuine. 
Otherwise, they wouldnt have scanned successfully.
Chargeback is an evidence based process. Mr G hasnt provided any evidence to show that 
he didnt enter through the turnstile. I appreciate that Mr G has provided an explanation of 
what happened on the day, but given the evidence provided by the merchant I dont think the 
chargeback claim had a reasonable prospect of success, So Im unable to say that 
Sainsburys acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined the chargeback.
I appreciate that Mr G is frustrated about the length of time it took for his claim to be 
processed, and I understand that he is annoyed that his claim was declined. I can see that 
Sainsburys has acknowledged that there were delays in its review of the merchants 
evidence.  By the time Sainsburys asked Mr G to provide more information in response to 
the merchants evidence, the time limit for the chargeback had almost expired. Ive thought 
about this, but I dont think the delay made any difference to the prospects of success of the 
chargeback claim. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Mr G was provided with the tickets and 
the tickets were scanned at the turnstile.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Sainsburys handled the chargeback fairly.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr G might have a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. This gives Mr G a right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. However, in 
this case, because the tickets that Mr G purchased were supplied to him for the event that 
he chose, and because the event took place, Im unable to say that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman