DRN-3471280
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) destroyed a letter which it sent to him  
but was returned, undelivered , by the postal service. Mr H hasnt specified what redress he 
would like.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate it must have been really frustrating for Mr H to have discovered 
Santander sent him a letter which he didnt receive . Not unreasonably Mr H would 
like to know what the letter was about, but Santanders records cant confirm this. 
Thats unfortunate, but, as I understand it Santanders process with returned mail is 
to securely destroy it. It then adds a returned mail indicator to the account, but this 
doesnt give the detail as to what was returned. I cant ask Santander to provide 
something it hasnt got. And I have noted the investigating manager has made an 
internal suggestion that, going forward, returned correspondence is saved for future 
reference I think this shows that  Santander took Mr Hs complaint seriously.
I dont agree with Mr Hs view that Santander acted unethically in destroying the 
returned item. From  a security perspective destroying it doesnt seem unreasonable 
to me. And its not for us to tell businesses what processes to use.
I have noted Mr Hs comments that he feels Santander acted illegally in destroying 
his returned mail and he intends to take legal action. I am not sure that destroying 
mail Santander sent itself  is illegal, but I think that is a matter for a court to decide if 
that is the way Mr H choses to proceed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
