DRN-2097867
The complaint
The estates of Mr and Mrs D complain about Phoenix Life Assurance Limited. They 
complain life assurance policies they took out didnt pay out upon Mr Ds death.
The estates of Mr and Mrs D are represented by their daughter who Ill refer to as Mrs A.
What happened
Mr D sadly passed away in March 2020. His estate contacted Phoenix Life to make a claim 
on his life policy(s) but were informed that no payment was due. Phoenix Life explained one 
of the policies, policy A, no longer had a claim value as  following Mrs D passing away  it 
was paid out in January 2016. And that a second policy, policy B, was also recorded as no 
longer having a value.
Mrs A complained to Phoenix Life about this as she said it was always her parents intention 
to have cover for their funeral expenses. She said although policy A paid out when her 
mother passed away it was her fathers understanding that a similar level of cover would 
also be paid out when he died. She questioned whether her parents were mis-sold the policy 
or if it had changed at some point. And, in respect of policy B, Mrs A said neither she nor 
Phoenix Life had anything to show it had been paid out. So, she asked for advice on how 
best to take this forward. Mrs A also referred to a third policy number and asked Phoenix Life 
to search their records for more information about it.
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. They explained they couldnt find anything about 
the third policy that Mrs A had referred to. And their records show policy B, which provided 
life cover for Mr D, was taken out by Mrs D but the premiums stopped being paid at some 
point and so it lapsed without value. They explained this likely happened before policy A was 
taken out in 1979  as the section for existing policies in these proposal forms didnt include 
any details of other policies. 
Phoenix Life confirmed policy A was a whole of life policy that was designed to pay out a 
guaranteed sum on the first death of the lives assured. And that the policy ended after Mrs D 
passed away with a payment of about £4,400 being made. Phoenix Life also explained that 
the sale of the policy, due to when it was taken out, wasnt subject to same rules of today. 
This meant there wasnt any requirement to complete a fact find, assess attitude to risk or 
provide advice. But they considered the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances given Mrs A had explained it was taken out to cover funeral costs. And, 
although they noted Mrs A said it was meant to cover the cost of both her parents funerals, 
the proposal forms explain that a capital sum would be paid on the first death of the lives 
assured.
The complaint was brought to our service but our investigator didnt think Phoenix Life had 
acted wrongly. She said in the absence of any information about this third policy, she 
couldnt ask Phoenix Life to do anything more. She also didnt think there was enough 
evidence to suggest policy B was still in force and should now be paid out. Our investigator 
further explained that she couldnt be sure what was discussed when policy A was sold but 
the available paperwork confirms it provided joint life cover on a first death basis. She 
thought it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs D to have read this, along with the rest of the 
documentation, at the time 
Mrs A disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly pass my condolences onto Mrs A and her family. I realise this will be a very 
difficult time and I dont underestimate the financial impact the cost of the funeral has had on 
them. But what I must consider here is whether Phoenix Life is required to pay out a claim as 
a result of Mr Ds passing. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs A but, for the 
reasons Ill explain, I dont think they do.
As our investigator has explained, there is limited information available about the policies Mr 
and Mrs D held or how they were sold to them. This isnt surprising given policy A and B 
were taken out in 1979 and 1954 respectively. Because of this though, it means Ive had to 
reach my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Before I go on to discuss policy A and B, I likewise consider that in the absence of anything 
to show Mr and/or Mrs D had a third policy with Phoenix Life I dont think I can fairly direct 
them to take any further action in this respect. If, however, Mrs A finds any further 
documentation about another policy then she should refer it to Phoenix Life for their 
consideration. 
Mrs A says her parents took out a life assurance policy for each other in 1954 and disputes 
they wouldve lapsed due to non-payment as this cover was important to them. Ive taken 
what Mrs A has said in to account but, due to the time thats since passed, its unclear what 
happened. Phoenix Lifes records however show policy B, that covered Mr D, no longer has 
a value. The proposal forms completed at the time policy A was sold also doesnt make any 
reference to it under the existing policies section. Ive also not seen any bank statements to 
show Mr and/or Mrs D were paying for more than one policy. So, on balance, I think its most 
likely policy B was paid up some time ago. And, most probably, either before policy A was 
set up or as part of the advice to do so. It therefore follows that, as the policy(s) is no longer 
in force I dont think any payment is due.
Policy A provided joint life cover and paid out on the first death of either Mr and Mrs D. As 
Phoenix Life made the £4,400 payment in January 2016 following the passing of Mrs D, 
under the terms of the policy, no further payment is due. I understand however that Mrs A 
believes it was mis-sold as she thinks her parents were advised to replace their existing 
policies with policy A which didnt provide the same level of cover. Ive carefully considered 
this but due to the time thats since passed, along with the different regulatory requirements 
to record information when it was sold, there isnt anything to show why it was taken out or to 
confirm Mr and Ds circumstances at that time. I therefore dont think I can fairly conclude Mr 
and Mrs D were mis-led about what cover policy A provided or that it didnt meet their needs 
at the time. 
Furthermore, I also think it is also relevant to add that the proposal forms  which Mr and 
Mrs D signed and agreed to - said the following:
 JOINT LIFE ASSURANCE CONTRACTSThese contracts normally provide, during the period of assurance, for the sum 
assured to be payable on the first death of two lives, usually a husband and wife, 
after which the contract terminates.
I think this clearly explains that the policy would stop providing cover after the first death of 
the lives assured. And I think its reasonable to have expected Mr and Mrs D to have read 
this as well as any other policy documentation they wouldve received at the time. I therefore 
think they ought to have understood how the policy worked and if it wasnt what they wanted 
then they couldve queried this with the adviser and sought cover elsewhere (or possibly 
kept their existing policies if they remained active).
I realise this isnt the outcome Mrs A is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont 
think Phoenix Life has to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mr D 
and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman