DRN-3095996
The complaint
Miss C complains BW Legal Services Limited, trading as BW Legal, are asking her to repay 
a debt for a loan which has been written off. She doesnt think they should contact her any 
further.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 16 September 2021, setting out whatd happened, and 
what I thought about that. Ive copied the relevant sections of the provisional decision below, 
and this forms part of my final decision.
Miss C had a loan with another company. The loan wasnt fully paid off, and ended up being 
bought by a company Ill call P. They asked BW Legal to collect the debt on their behalf, and 
contacted Miss C about it. Later on, the original lender went into liquidation, and a scheme 
was set up to provide redress for loans which were irresponsibly lent. 
Miss C complained about this contact in December 2019. She said shed received a letter 
from the administrators of the original lender to say the account had been irresponsibly lent. 
She said this meant the debt had been written off, so asked BW Legal to stop contacting her 
as it was causing her a lot of stress. 
On 24 January 2020 BW Legal replied and said on 4 January 2017 theyd been instructed by 
their client P to recover the outstanding balance of the account of £457.50. BW Legal said 
they couldnt consider the conduct of the original lender. They added that, even if Miss C did 
make a complaint to the lender, itd have no bearing on the debt itself  and if she has an 
outstanding balance then she remains responsible for paying it off. 
Unhappy with this Miss C asked us to look into things. 
One of our investigators did so. He explained Miss Cs original loan becoming part of the 
scheme didnt mean itd been paid off. But he felt BW Legal saying the scheme would have 
no bearing on the outstanding loan wasnt correct  because it was possible the interest 
would be refunded, or the loan could be paid off. So, he felt thatd clearly impact the debt 
itself, and said he would have expected BW Legal to have queried this. Instead, he felt 
BW Legal dismissed Miss Cs claim saying it wouldnt have an impact which was unfair. 
Because of this, he said BW Legal should place any collection activity of the debt on hold 
and pay Miss C £75 compensation for the distress caused.
Miss C accepted this, but BW Legal didnt. In short, they felt that the approach of saying the 
scheme outcome would have a bearing on the outstanding debt was wrong. BW Legal also 
felt our investigator was interfering with the way the scheme worked by telling them to put 
any collection activity on hold.
Ive deliberately been brief when summarising BW Legals response to the view  because 
since that happened things have moved on.
Miss C has been given an outcome from the scheme which has agreed she was mis-sold 
the loan. On 25 March 2021 the scheme confirmed what the payment was likely to be  and 
that because the debt had been sold to another party, theyd need to pay these monies 
directly to her  rather than offsetting it against the loan. The amount of redress wasnt 
enough to settle the loan  so a debt remained outstanding.
Following some further conversations and investigations it seems Miss C has accepted the 
loan wasnt written off  as most recently shes agreed to repay £12.50 a month towards it.
BW Legal say Miss C agreeing this means she has accepted the balanced is owed by her, 
as such they think its fair and reasonable to conclude this complaint is frivolous and should 
be dismissed without considering the merits of it. Theyve also previously argued this was a 
dispute rather than a complaint and made reference to legislation which supports their claim 
 meaning we didnt have authority to look into it.
I addressed BW Legals concerns about whether we had authority to look into this complaint 
in a separate decision  finding that we did. I also covered their points about whether the 
case should be dismissed, finding that I wouldnt dismiss the case, and it was appropriate for 
me to consider the substance of Miss Cs complaint.
In their response to this decision, BW Legal added some further points. These primarily 
related to Miss C now seemingly accepting that the debt was properly owed by her. They 
said they cant be held responsible for Miss Cs misconception about this  and reiterated it 
wasnt right for us to interfere in a court appointed scheme. BW Legal also asked whether 
wed spoken to Miss C about her case, because they felt it was unlikely shed want to go 
ahead with it as shes now agreed a repayment plan. 
Miss C said in response to the decision BW Legal werent prepared to hear her mitigating 
factors, and just fobbed her off when its now been proven she was owed redress.
I noted BW Legals question about whether wed asked Miss C if she wanted to continue 
with this complaint. Given how much had changed from when she first raised it, I thought this 
was a reasonable question from BW Legal and was something I was going to make sure we 
asked anyway.
In response, Miss C said yes, she does want to continue with the complaint. Miss C 
explained she thought when the scheme went through the court, BW Legal would have 
contacted the original owner to understand whatd happen with the debt, and how much she 
was owed. Miss C said as far as shes concerned, BW Legal knew she might be refunded a 
small amount but didnt give her any information.
As Miss C has brought a valid complaint, which Ive already decided is one we have the 
power to consider under our rules, and shouldnt be dismissed, Ive issued this decision on 
the substance of her concerns.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a reminder, Miss Cs original complaint was that BW Legal were asking her to repay a 
loan that she thought had been written off.
To address this firstly, I dont think that was the case at the time Miss C made her complaint 
and has since been proven not to be true. The account BW Legal were asking Miss C to repay wasnt written off. It seems Miss C has interpreted the email she received about the 
loan as saying it would be written off due to the loan potentially being irresponsibly lent. But, 
even if there was an issue with that letter, I cant say thats BW Legals responsibility  they 
didnt send the letter. And the sale of the loan itself was the responsibility of the original 
lender.
Where BW Legals responsibility sits is in the information they gave to her when she got in 
touch. So, Ive looked at this.
They explained in their response to Miss Cs complaint on 24 January 2020 that they were 
instructed by P to collect £457.50. In respect of Miss Cs main concern about being asked to 
repay a debt which had been written off due to irresponsible lending, their first point was they 
couldnt look at any concerns regarding the original lender. And their second statement was 
that any assessment on the lender wouldnt have a bearing on the debt itself, and Miss C 
would remain responsible for any outstanding balance.
BW Legal, as a debt collector, wouldnt be responsible for the advice given by Miss Cs 
lender in this case  so I agree with that. As for BW Legals second statement I dont fully 
agree with it. As no one knew how much redress was due, or what was going to happen to it, 
then its possible it could have been paid by the scheme administrators direct to BW Legal. 
So, in that sense I dont fully agree it couldnt ever have any bearing on the debt  it could 
have reduced it or paid it off. But until anything was decided by the scheme then the debt 
was properly owed by Miss C. So, in that sense BW Legal were correct in saying Miss C 
would remain responsible for any outstanding balance. And, what BW Legal said has since 
been proven true, as the redress from the scheme wasnt enough to clear the debt, and was 
paid direct to Miss C.
Miss C also said she was feeling overwhelmed with stress. BW Legal address this in what I 
think is a fair and empathetic way  by acknowledging how shes feeling, giving details of 
debt charities who can help her, and saying she could ask someone else to represent her. I 
can understand why Miss C would have felt stressed. But I think BW Legal gave a fair 
response to this and tried to help her.
Miss Cs overarching complaint was originally that she was being asked to repay a debt she 
shouldnt have been, and she feels BW Legal should have done more  by for example 
contacting the court about the scheme. While I know Miss C will be disappointed, I dont 
agree with that.
BW Legals role here was to ask for the repayment of the debt. Based on the above, theyve 
given her the correct information about whats happening, and offered a number of other 
suggestions to help her. Im not aware of any requirement for BW Legal to contact the court 
and find out how much could potentially be repaid towards the debt if the scheme does pay 
out  and at that time I can see nothing had been decided about the scheme anyway. So, 
even if BW Legal did this (which I dont think they were required to  and probably didnt 
have authority to do so), I think its unlikely theyd have been given any information to pass 
on to Miss C.I realise our investigator felt BW Legal should have done more  by pausing repayments due 
to the scheme potentially writing off the loan and paying out £75 compensation for poor 
communication. I wont comment on whether he was right to talk about the scheme, as thats 
no longer relevant because the scheme has paid out  and Miss C has begun repayments 
with BW Legal. For the £75 compensation he recommended I cant agree its appropriate. I 
say that because Im satisfied BW Legal did give Miss C the right information about her debt 
when replying to her complaint  and any issues about what the scheme were going to do 
were more properly directed to the scheme administrators. I think its fair to say Miss C may 
have been confused, and potentially a more detailed response from BW Legal could have 
helped her with that  but broadly what theyve told her is accurate and fair.
Taking all of that into account, I dont currently plan to uphold this complaint or award any 
compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
BW Legal replied, and said they were broadly pleased with the possible favourable outcome 
Id come to. They wanted to address one issue though, where Id said it was possible any 
redress from the scheme could have been paid direct to BW Legal, or their client P, rather 
than Miss C. They said the scheme rules specifically say any payment has to be paid directly 
to Miss C  so, because of that, their statement when they said the scheme outcome 
wouldnt have any bearing on the debt was entirely accurate. They provided links to the 
scheme rules, and evidence from previous schemes run by the regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in support of this.
Miss C replied, and said BW Legal have said shes due redress, and asked what happened 
with that. We asked her to clarify what she meant, as we werent aware of any redress BW 
Legal had said she was owed by them. She forwarded a copy of an email from BW Legal 
dated 24 June 2021. The email explained she was due to be paid redress from the scheme 
of £149.76 and said, our client would also like to assist you with this matter further and has 
reduced your current balance outstanding by the redress amount of £149.76.. In addition, 
BW Legal offered Miss C a discount on the remaining balance, and said if she couldnt pay 
the whole amount, then a payment arrangement of £12.50 per month could be set up.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted BW Legals point here  that the scheme rules specifically say any payment needs 
to be made directly to Miss C. But the point I was making was BW Legals statement to 
Miss C that the scheme would never have a bearing on the loan wasnt something I could 
fully agree with  and still dont. The email Miss C has forwarded in response to my PD 
shows the scheme did have a bearing, as theyd reduced the outstanding debt by the 
redress amount  even though it was paid to Miss C directly.
I think BW Legals point is that the scheme itself would never have paid the money direct to 
them to settle the debt  and theyve provided enough when looking at the scheme rules and 
the FCA to support that. But, again, this for me goes back to the clarity of BW Legals reply.
 
Again though, I need to emphasise Im satisfied that broadly the information they gave was 
right. I dont think Miss C has materially suffered by this because she did have an 
outstanding debt BW Legal wanted her to repay, and the scheme did pay the redress directly 
to her, so I dont think BW Legal need to do anything further.I have noted Miss Cs comments about BW Legal saying theyd pay her redress as well. But 
the email shes forwarded doesnt say that. The email says the scheme is paying her 
redress, not BW Legal.
Overall, Ive not found any reasons to depart from my provisional conclusions and wont be 
awarding Miss C any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman