DRN-3963995
The complaint
Mr A has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have turned down his claim under his 
master of all trades insurance policy.
What happened
A small JCB Digger owned by Mr A in connection with his business was stolen from his
garden between 10 and 11pm. UKI appointed a loss adjuster, wholl Ill refer to as S, to
investigate his claim. S turned the claim down on the basis the digger was not being kept in
a guarded security park when it was stolen.
Mr A complained to UKI about this. He said he thought his garden could be viewed as a
guarded security park. He also said that when he arranged the cover for the digger, he told
the customer service agent he would be keeping the digger in his garden and they told him
this would be okay. He also complained about the service hed received while S and UKI
were dealing with the claim.
UKI upheld Mr As complaint about poor service and offered to pay him £200 in 
compensation for this. But they didnt uphold his complaint about the claim. They said S 
were correct to turn it down. UKI also registered a separate complaint about the fact Mr A 
thought he was misadvised when he called to add his digger to his policy. And they issued a 
final response rejecting this as well on the basis hed been provided with the policy 
documentation. 
Mr S asked us to consider his complaint. When doing so he asked us to consider his 
complaint points about the service hed received, the claim being turned down and being 
misled when he arranged for the digger to be covered.
Our investigator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. He said the £200 in
compensation UKI had offered for the poor service was reasonable and that he was satisfied
their decision in respect of his claim was also reasonable.
Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision and I issued a provisional decision on 1 February 
2023, in which I set out what Id provisionally decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy seems to cover his digger under Section 3  Tools and Business Equipment,
although UKI haver not provided a policy schedule, which would enable me to be sure of
this. And UKI have rejected Mr As claim on the basis of the following exclusion in this
section of cover:
Damage due to theft or attempted theft of or from any unattended vehicle:
a) Unless it is securely locked at all points of access and
b) Between 9pm and 6am the vehicle is in a securely locked building or guarded
security park.
It is not in dispute that Mr As digger was stolen between 9pm and 6am. Mr A thinks it can be
said to have been stored in a guarded security park when it was stolen. He thinks this on the
basis his garden could be classed as a park, as it surrounds a country house, has a wall and
wooden and Heras fencing around it and it has gates secured from the inside by bolts. And
because he and his wife were in the house at the time of the theft he thinks it was guarded.
The policy doesnt define guarded security park, so I think it is fair to take what most people
would understand to first of all decide whether Mr As claim is actually caught by the
abovementioned exclusion. This is different to deciding whether it is fair and reasonable for
UKI to rely on the exclusion to decline his claim in light of what he may have been told when
he arranged the cover for his digger, which Ill come on to later.
Having considered the matter, I dont think most people would see a residential garden as a
guarded security park. So, I dont consider Mr As digger can be said to have been in a
guarded security park when it was stolen. And, as this happened between 10 and 11pm, I
think this means that  technically  the exclusion applies to defeat his claim. 
However, I can understand if Mr A told the customer service agent when he called up to add 
the digger that he stored it in his garden and was told this was okay, why he would have 
thought it would be covered in his garden, irrespective of the exclusion. After all, he would 
have thought he was entitled to rely on what hed been told by the agent. And I note that in 
their final response letter on Mr As complaint about his claim being turned down UKI  
actually said they could understand why he would have thought his claim would be covered
if hed been told it was okay to keep his digger in his garden.
UKI have said they no longer have a recording of the telephone call Mr A made to add the
digger, so I cant know for sure what was said and what he was told. But Ive got Mr As
testimony of what was said from what he said when he made his complaint. And Ive also
spoken to him and got him to go through it with me. He said to me he called to get a quote to
add the digger and was told how much it was to add it to his policy. He said that during the
call he said it would be kept in his garden and was told this would be okay. So, he went
ahead and added the digger. Hes explained he did at some point read the policy and
noticed the exclusion, but he wasnt concerned about it because of what hed been told
when he called.
Im persuaded by Mr As testimony and consider it more likely than not that he did say his
digger was kept in his garden and was told this would be okay. And, in view of this, I can
also understand why he wasnt concerned when he noticed the abovementioned exclusion
clause in his policy. This is because hed have thought he could rely on what hed been told
and assume UKI would see his garden as an acceptable place to store his digger overnight.
In view of this, I do not think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr As
complaint, if I were to allow UKI to rely on the abovementioned exclusion to decline his
claim.
It therefore follows, that I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr As complaint is that
UKI should not be allowed to rely on the abovementioned exclusion and should reconsider
his claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms.
I consider the £200 UKI have offered in compensation for the distress and inconvenience   
Mr A experienced as a result of, what I agree, was the poor service they provided when they
and S handled his claim is more than sufficient. I also think this is enough to cover the
distress and inconvenience Mr A experienced as a result of having his claim turned down
because of an exclusion he didnt think would apply. Mr A hasnt had this money, so this
does also need to be paid to him.I gave both parties until 15 February 2023 to provide further comments and evidence.
Mr A has said he has no further comments or evidence to provide. 
UKI responded to say that the further issue of Mr A being mis-sold his policy or being poorly 
advised by them was raised as a separate complaint under a different reference. And the 
concerns regarding mis-selling were not addressed in their response to this complaint. 
Our investigator responded to UKI to explain that when Mr A asked us to consider his 
complaint he made it clear it was about both the rejection of his claim and the fact he was 
misadvised when he added his digger to the policy. And he also pointed out that we had 
made this clear to UKI at the outset. He further explained that in view of this we considered it 
appropriate to consider Mr As concern about what he was told when he called to add his 
digger to his policy as part of this complaint. 
Following this UKI havent provided any further comments or evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator is correct in that when Mr A asked us to consider his complaint about UKI, 
he made it clear he wanted us to consider UKIs decision to turn down his claim and the fact 
that he was incorrectly advised when he added his digger to the policy; as well as his 
concern about the service hed received in respect of his claim. So I agree it is appropriate 
for us to consider all three of these complaint points as part of this complaint. And this is why 
I addressed them both in my provisional decision.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence on the merits of Mr As 
complaint in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my view on 
what I considered to be the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr As complaint. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided the fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mr As complaint is that UKI should not rely on the abovementioned exclusion to 
reject his claim and should consider it in accordance with the remaining policy terms.
Ive also decided the £200 UKI have offered in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr A experienced as a result of, what I agree, was the poor service they 
provided when they and S handled his claim is more than sufficient. I also think this is 
enough to cover the distress and inconvenience Mr A experienced as a result of having his 
claim turned down because of an exclusion he didnt think would apply. Mr A hasnt had this 
money, so this does also need to be paid to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and I direct UK Insurance Limited to do 
what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman