DRN-3993207
The complaint
Mr R complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) is applying debit card transactions 
retrospectively to his current account resulting in his account becoming overdrawn and 
charging interest on this.
What happened
Mr R holds a current account with the Co-op. Mr R manages his bank account by crediting 
sufficient funds to his account to cover payments he makes on the day the payments debit 
his account. This has resulted in Mr Rs account becoming overdrawn and incurring interest 
charges when his account credits occur after the payments are taken.
Mr R complained to Co-op about this requesting it change the way it applies debit card 
transactions to his account and provide a refund of the interest charges applied to his 
account when it became overdrawn because of this.
Co-op has explained that when customers make a debit card payment the merchant may 
seek authorisation from the bank prior to requesting the funds. Prior authorisation ensures 
that there are sufficient funds available to cover the transaction and will show as pending 
transactions - meaning a payment has been accepted by a merchant but the funds have not 
yet been requested from the bank. 
A pending transaction will affect the available balance in that the payment is treated as 
having been made at the point of sale until the payment either debits the account or is 
cancelled by the merchant. The merchant has up to 10 days to request the payment and the 
bank has no control over when that request will be received.
Once the merchant has requested the payment the transaction will debit the account which 
can happen at any point during the day prior to close of business at 9pm. Payment requests 
after this are applied the following day.
Co-op says the points when Mr R has complained about his account becoming overdrawn 
were because Mr R was either viewing his account balance or recent transactions on his 
account before the merchant is claiming payment or is crediting his account after the 9pm 
cut off point. It says that payments werent being applied retrospectively and that it had made 
no errors in how the credits and debits had been applied to Mr Rs account.
Mr R was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns and reached the conclusion that the Co-
op hadnt done anything wrong and that interest charged for being overdrawn had been 
applied correctly. 
Mr R disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Co-op has told us that its close of business is at 9pm meaning payments or credits received 
after this are applied the following day. Mr R is unhappy with this and says Co-op should 
align business days and calendar days so that when he checks his bank balance he can rely 
on the balance represented and not be concerned about it being incorrect because there are 
pending transactions to come through. 
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make a bank 
change its systems or processes  such as how or when a bank processes transactions 
made on a customers account held with it. And we dont get involved in how much a bank 
charges for its services or what services it provides  this is a commercial decision. We offer 
an informal dispute resolution service and we have no regulatory or disciplinary role. So 
although Mr R may well want the transaction he makes at 9.05pm to take place that day or 
for pending transactions to drop off his balance before the funds are requested by the 
merchant  I cant force Co-op to make these changes and operate in this way.
My role is to look at the problems a customer has experienced and see if the bank has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put the customer back in the position 
they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. 
In the background Ive already outlined the process by which a debit card payment is made 
when pre-authorisation is required by a merchant and dont see the merit in repeating this 
here. Mr R says that the Co-op applied debit card transactions retrospectively resulting in his 
account becoming overdrawn and him being charged for this. Mr R says while the Co-ops 
cut off for credits into the account is 9pm it doesnt apply the same rule for debit 
transactions.
But having looked at the audit trail including bank statements and Co-ops internal systems 
data for some of the transactions Mr R has complained about, I cant see that this is the case 
and that the same rule applies regardless of whether it is a credit or debit - if it is made after 
9pm it will be processed the following calendar day.
I think the problem Mr R is having is that he is checking his account prior to transaction 
amounts being requested by the merchant. For example, on 7 September at 3.45pm Mr R 
made a debit card transaction for £96.95 that the merchant requested authorisation for but 
not the funds (so it became pending payment). I can see the following day (8 September) Mr 
R checked his bank balance at 9.12am. But as the merchant for this transaction didnt 
request the payment from Mr Rs account until later in the day at 7.33pm it wouldnt have 
shown at the point Mr R checked his balance. Mr R had insufficient funds in his account 
when the merchant requested the £96.95 and Mr Rs account became overdrawn when that 
amount debited his account.
I can see Mr R again accessed his account on 9 September at 9.09am and seeing that the 
£96.95 previously authorised had debited his account Mr R than went on to credit his 
account for the same amount. Unfortunately, because Mr R credited his account after he 
made the transaction and the funds had been requested from the merchant and his account 
became overdrawn and Co-op went on to apply overdraft interest to Mr Rs account.
Co-ops terms and conditions allow payments to be taken out of a customers account where 
there are insufficient funds to cover the transaction amount and that it can charge for this 
service. So from what Ive seen I cant say that the Co-op have done anything wrong. I accept that Mr R may well wish to operate his account in a way where he only credits his 
account for the transactions he makes on the day he expects the account to be debited. But 
this is entirely his choice and the Co-op has no control over when a merchant is going to 
request the funds Mr R has authorised it to take from his account.  
Ultimately, Mr R is responsible for managing his own account and making sure he has 
sufficient funds in it to settle payments he wishes to make and that will be leaving his 
account. And the reason he on occasion is finding his account overdrawn is because he has 
failed to do this and not because of any mistake Co-op has made in processing the 
transactions.  
So this being the case I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman