DRN-3361461
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the service she got from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), following a 
claim under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs M held a home emergency policy with Aviva, which among other things covered her for 
toilet blockages and drain issues. Mrs Ms toilet became blocked and she contacted Aviva to, 
make a claim. It sent an engineer who attended around two days later but attended without 
the correct tools to unblock the toilet. 
Another appointment was booked a few days later, but the engineer failed to attend. A third 
appointment was made, and the engineer attended. But he advised that a drainage engineer 
was required to remove the blockage. A further appointment was made and, on that 
occasion, Mrs M said that she made it clear that an appointment in the morning wouldnt be 
suitable and she said that Aviva assured her that an engineer wouldnt attend in the morning. 
But the engineer did attend in the morning when Mrs M wasnt at home. Aviva said that the 
engineer carried out a CCTV inspection of the drains and found that there was no blockage. 
During this time Mrs M said that her and some family members had to take days off work, 
waiting for engineers to attend, when they did not. She also said that she was without the 
use of that toilet and the facilities in the bathroom for around a week. She describes having 
been very frustrated and angry and raised a complaint to Aviva. 
Aviva accepted that there had been poor service issues and apologised for the errors and 
inconvenience it had caused. It initially offered £40 compensation for the upset but later 
increased its offer and paid Mrs M £200. Mrs M was unhappy with the resolution. She said 
that as Aviva had failed to unblock her toilet and she had to buy tools and liquids to unblock 
the toilet herself. And whilst attempting to unblock the toilet, she damaged it. Coupled with 
the days off work that she and her family members had taken as well as having to chase 
Aviva, she decided to refer her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered her complaint and thought it should be upheld. 
Ultimately her view was that the impact on Mrs M was minimal, as she had access to other 
facilities in the home and there was no person within the home who had any vulnerabilities.  
She said that Mrs M had provided some evidence of the cost of the tools and Aviva ought to
reimburse those costs, as it was reasonable that Mrs M wouldve incurred them. She 
concluded that the £200 compensation paid by Aviva was fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mrs M did not. She said that she felt let down and frustrated which 
affected her confidence in getting issues resolved. She said that the £200 that had been paid 
was poultry and not acceptable given Avivas behaviour. So, she asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint and I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Mrs M has made a few detailed points, which I have read and considered. I hope 
the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
The main issues of this complaint are whether the level of compensation paid by Aviva is fair 
in the circumstances of this case, and whether Aviva ought to reimburse Mrs M costs of 
carrying out the work herself. 
First, though, its important to say Aviva accepts that there were poor service issues and I 
agree. And Im in no doubt the failings have meant that Mrs M has suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a consequence. What I have to decide here, though, is what I think its fair 
and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mrs M to compensate for its failings.
Mrs M explains that she was unable to use her bathroom facilities for a few days. But she did 
also say that she had access to other showering and toilet facilities. Mrs M said that there 
were four adults in the home, but Ive not been told that any of them had any vulnerabilities.
Turning to Mrs Ms lost earnings first. Mrs Ms home emergency policy doesnt give her 
cover for loss of earnings  that is, its not something shes entitled to claim for under her 
contract of insurance. And I must also say any home emergency is going to involve a 
homeowner some inconvenience including, almost inevitably, taking time off work for an 
engineer to come in and put things right. 
It isnt my role to punish or fine the financial businesses we cover. Thats because were not 
the industry regulator. I can make awards for a consumers distress and inconvenience 
though, if a think a business has done something wrong which has caused them trouble, 
upset or material inconvenience. I wouldnt generally make awards for a consumers time or 
lost wages though. In this case, I accept Mrs M has been put to some trouble and 
inconvenience because of the poor service issues highlighted. So, its fair for Aviva to 
recognise this and I think it should pay compensation. In these circumstances, Ive decided 
£200 feels fair and reasonable to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mrs M has 
suffered.
I have next considered Mrs Ms financial loss she incurred. Mrs M said that she spent £40 
rectifying the blockage herself. She was able to provide a receipt for some of the financial 
loss but explained that the other expenses she didnt have receipts for. 
Aviva accepted that it would reimburse Mrs Ms costs and despite the lack of receipts for 
some of the purchases she made, I think its fair and reasonable that Aviva reimburse those 
costs, as if it had been able to carry out the work, Mrs M wouldnt have had to buy the items 
and suffer the financial loss she did. So, I recommend that Aviva reimburse Mrs Ms costs. Putting things right
I direct Aviva to put things right as I set out below. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Aviva Insurance Limited has already paid £200 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
Aviva Insurance Limited should reimburse Mrs Ms costs of £40.
Aviva Insurance Limited must reimburse Mrs Ms costs within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman