DRN-3225844
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that FCE Bank Plc asked him to pay an excess mileage charge.
What happened
In November 2014, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with FCE. The agreement was for 36 monthly hire payments of £169.50, and an optional 
final payment of £3,448 if he wished to purchase the car at the end of the agreement. The 
agreement allowed for a maximum annual mileage of 6,000 miles and said Mr H would be 
charged six pence for every mile that exceeded this amount.
He said he didnt want to take up the option to purchase the car at the end of the agreement. 
And he said he didnt want to trade in the car for a new agreement as it was too expensive. 
He said he was aware that he had exceeded the allowed mileage. He said that the dealer 
told him that because the car was in a good condition its value was more than the debt 
owed, even with the excess mileage.
In December 2017 Mr H returned the car to the dealer that had supplied the car. At the time 
of collection, the car had done 95,516 miles. He said he was asked to sign a form and that 
was the handover completed.
He said he then received a letter from FCE charging him £2,756.95 for the excess mileage. 
He said that if hed known that this charge was due he would have taken the option to 
purchase the car for the £3,500 the dealer said it was worth. Hes unhappy that he wasnt 
told that the fee would be payable, and that FCE auctioned the car without giving him the 
option to purchase it.
FCE didnt uphold his complaint. They said Mr H had entered into and signed an agreement 
that set out the annual agreed mileage at 6,000 miles, and that hed be charged if he 
exceeded that mileage.
They said they offered Mr H the opportunity to purchase the car on payment of the Optional 
Final Payment amount. They said Mr H had asked if this was possible as it would only cost 
him less than £700 more than the excess mileage charge. They said he declined the offer 
because they wouldnt offer him this on a new agreement and required the payment to be 
made in full.
Mr H was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that the agreement allowed FCE to charge for excess mileage, and he 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong by doing so.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said was aware of the terms of the agreement, 
but he said he wasnt told at the time about the excess mileage fee and wasnt given a cost 
to purchase the car to offset the excess mileage charge.
He said he should have been given the opportunity to purchase the car and should have 
been told the excess mileage when he returned the car to the dealer.
Because Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the Hire Purchase Agreement, signed by Mr H on 7 November 2014. 
Page one of the agreement included a section headed Excess Mileage. This clearly stated 
that he must not exceed the approved annual mileage of 6,000 miles  and that hed be 
charged six pence per mile if he did. This was also included in section 8h of the terms and 
conditions that applied when the agreement was ended.
Ive also seen a copy of the standard letters FCE send to customers three months before the 
agreement is due to end, and 45 days before it ends. Both these letters make clear that if 
you are returning the car (option 2) you would have nothing further to pay, only if you had not 
exceeded the agreed mileage as set out in the agreement.
So Im satisfied that Mr H would have been reasonably aware of the total mileage he was 
allowed to do under the agreement, and how he would be charged if he exceeded this 
mileage.
Ive seen a copy of the Vehicle Condition Report that was completed when Mr H returned the 
car to the dealer. This confirms that the mileage was 95,516 miles. Mr H said the handover 
took only a short time, and that because it was dark, they couldnt check for any damage.
Mr H isnt disputing the mileage, and FCE havent charged him for any damage. I 
understand that Mr H feels he shouldve been told by the dealer about the excess mileage 
charge. But Im satisfied he had sufficient information available for him to be reasonably 
aware that the charge would be payable, and how to calculate what that charge was likely to 
be.
As such, Im satisfied Mr H had exceeded the mileage allowable under the agreement by 
38,291 miles. So, Im also satisfied that it was reasonable and fair for FCE to charge Mr H 
£2,756.95 for this excess mileage.
Mr H isnt happy that he wasnt given the option to purchase the car. Ive mentioned above 
the letters FCE send to customers before their agreement ends. I think Mr H shouldve been 
reasonably aware from those letters that he could purchase the car at the end of the 
agreement  and the agreement he entered into, along with the letters, stated that the option 
to purchase price was £3,448.He also had the information available to him to calculate the excess mileage fee that would 
be due. He told us he contacted the dealership in 2015 when he knew he would be using the 
car more than 6,000 miles a year due to a change of job. I cant say what was discussed at 
that time  but this shows he was aware that he would be exceeding the mileage allowed 
under the agreement, and that this would incur an excess mileage fee. 
When he complained to FCE about the amount of the excess mileage fee, they made him 
aware that he could purchase the car on payment of the optional final payment. He declined 
the offer, so I cant say theyve been unreasonable.
For the reasons stated above, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr H, Im satisfied that FCE acted fairly and reasonably. They provided him with the 
information about the final payment due if he wanted to purchase the car, and how to 
calculate the excess mileage fee. So I wont be asking them to reduce or waive the 
outstanding charges.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about FCE Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman