DRN-4458035
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) wont remove a record it added to its 
systems and to the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) after he notified it of a claim on his 
car insurance policy that he later withdrew.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr C notified West Bay his car had been stolen and West Bay opened a claim 
for him. A few hours later, Mr C withdrew the claim saying his car had been moved by 
someone he knew without his knowledge.
Earlier this year, after taking out a new car insurance policy, Mr Cs new insurer asked him 
why he hadnt disclosed a previous Theft claim. It said his insurance premium would 
increase because of it. 
When Mr C contacted West Bay about this, it told him the incident from July 2022 was 
recorded as notification of incident only. It said because Mr Cs car was recovered and 
neither he nor a third party made a claim, his file was settled and his no claims discount was 
allowed. But West Bay said it wouldnt remove the record of the incident from its systems or 
CUE (which is the database of motor, home and personal injury incidents thats used by the 
insurance industry to identify misrepresentation and prevent fraud). West Bay says the 
incident was a reportable one because Mr Cs car was taken without his permission. And it 
says it was correct for the incident to be recorded on its systems and CUE, even though the 
claim was later withdrawn
Mr C says he made a mistake, thinking his car had been stolen when it hadnt been, and 
withdrew his claim within hours. He says hes been unfairly penalised  his insurance 
premiums having gone up  as a result of the notification of the incident on CUE. So he 
thinks West Bay should remove it.
The investigator who looked at Mr Cs complaint didnt uphold it. She said West Bay had 
logged the claim on CUE as notification only, which was an accurate reflection of what had 
happened. Mr C disagrees. He says he doesnt think its fair a small mistake means his 
premium has gone up by hundreds of pounds when he didn't even make a claim.
So Mr Cs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. While I sympathise with the 
position Mr C has found himself in, I dont think West Bay has done anything wrong here.
If an insurer is signed up to CUE, it will make a record of any incident its made aware of, 
whether or not it eventually leads to a claim. In Mr Cs case, he reported his car had been 
stolen. Thats an incident that would be recordable on CUE and thats what West Bay did. 
Soon after, Mr C discovered his car had been moved, without his knowledge, by someone 
he knew. So he contacted West Bay to withdraw the claim. West Bay closed the claim and 
allowed Mr Cs no claims discount as the car had been found.
I havent seen a screenshot of the record of the incident as it appears on CUE or on West 
Bays systems. But both Mr C and West Bay have said it was logged and West Bay has said 
it was recorded as notification only. Thats how Id expect the incident to be recorded in 
these circumstances. I dont think West Bay has acted unfairly or unreasonably in recording 
what happened as a notification of incident only on its system and on CUEs database.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman