DRN-3875174
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid irresponsibly approved his credit card
account and later increased the credit limit to unaffordable levels.
What happened
Mr M says he applied for the Fluid account in January 2020. He says at the time he was in
about £23,000 of debt and had other credit card accounts. Mr M says a credit search would
have shown the problem. He says the account was unaffordable and the credit limits
shouldnt have been increased. Mr M would like all interest and charges refunded as well as
compensation for what took place.
Fluid says Mr M told it he earned over £30,000 a year with additional household income of
over £23,000. It says it carried out appropriate credit checks and that there wasnt any
adverse information on Mr Ms credit file. Fluid says Mr Ms household income ought to have
been sufficient for his borrowing levels and says he managed his account appropriately until
the present time. It says the initial credit limit was £300 which increased to £2,550 in
December 2020.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought Mr
Ms income didnt cover his monthly credit commitments and had taken out loans with high
cost lenders. The investigator thought further checks ought to have been carried out and that
interest should be refunded.
Fluid doesnt accept that view and says Mr Ms debt decreased by the time of the latest
credit limit increase.
My provisional view
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and said as follows
Lenders and credit providers must carry out appropriate affordability checks. Those checks
will of course vary depending on the type and amount of lending. And I wouldnt have
expected Fluids checks to have been as detailed here compared to for example, a mortgage
application or large loan. This was an application for a credit facility.
I looked carefully at Mr Ms account application. I was satisfied he told Fluid he was in
employment with a household income of over £50,000 a year. I could see from Fluids 
records that it checked Mr Ms credit file which didnt show any adverse information such as 
defaults or accounts in arrears. I also saw that Fluid checked Mr Ms other credit 
commitments and calculated his other debt. I was satisfied that checks were carried out and 
that on the face of it, no obvious adverse information was available that would have led Fluid 
to conclude the credit facility was unaffordable.
I appreciated that Mr M had existing debt but was satisfied that the household income should
have been able to support that debt. I also thought that the important point was that Mr M
managed his existing accounts appropriately by making required payments. So, I was 
satisfied that Fluid did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ms application 
and that its decision to approve what I thought was a very modest credit facility of £300 was 
not irresponsible or unaffordable.
The credit limit was increased on two occasions during 2020. I looked at Mr Ms credit
file from that time and looked carefully at his account management. I was satisfied that Mr
Ms credit file during 2020 didnt have any adverse information that Fluid ought to have
considered and saw that his existing debt decreased. I was also satisfied that Fluid was
entitled to consider that Mr M managed his account appropriately before the credit limit
increases by making appropriate payments on time. So, I didnt think the decision to 
increase the credit limits was irresponsible and didnt think they ought to have been 
unaffordable.
I appreciated that Mr M did have other debts and took out payday lending. But I could also 
see Mr M managed those debts and repaid his borrowing. I didnt think those other debts 
ought to have led to Fluid carrying out further checks on either the initial application or the 
later credit limits increases.
I looked at Mr Ms credit file in detail and looked at his bank account statements.
Having done so I thought it likely Mr Ms financial difficulties may have been caused by 
factors that Fluid would have been unaware of. I thought it likely that on the face of it the 
Fluid account ought to have been affordable, but Mr Ms additional spending led to the 
financial strain. I said those were not matters I could fairly hold Fluid responsible for or that it 
ought to have known about. I also thought that, as Mr M managed his account appropriately 
for some time after the last credit limit increase, that provides additional evidence of 
affordability.
I said that Fluid hadnt provided the account statements just the account spreadsheet. I said 
I hoped it would provide that information before my final decision as well as the up to date 
account position. I also hoped Mr M would confirm if he has asked for any financial help from 
Fluid.
Nether side has responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional view 
and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman