DRN-3851974
The complaint
Miss L is complaining that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE) has declined a claim she 
made on her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2022 Miss L contacted AIE to advise that the cast iron guttering had fallen 
following heavy rainfall and had damaged the back of the property. So she wanted to make a 
claim on her buildings insurance policy. AIE instructed a surveyor to inspect the property, 
who reported that the damage was down to wear and tear and wasnt a sudden and 
unexpected event. So AIE said the claim wasnt covered.
Miss L didnt think AIEs decision was fair. She said when she first contacted AIE, she said 
the call handler had told her it would deal with claim as either storm damage or accidental 
damage. She also said the guttering had come down because her neighbours guttering had 
collapsed, which in turn brought her guttering down. 
Miss L instructed her own surveyor, who concluded that Miss Ls guttering was in a good 
state of repair, but said her neighbours was in a poor state. Miss L also provided a 
statement from her neighbours neighbour who said hed spoken with Miss Ls neighbour 
before the incident as he was concerned her guttering was about to collapse and would 
bring his guttering down in turn. But he said the neighbour said she was aware of the issue 
but she couldnt afford to fix it. So he said he entered into an arrangement where he would 
pay for all the works and the neighbour would pay him back over time. But he said the 
guttering gave way before they could do the work.
AIE maintained its decision to decline the claim. And it highlighted that Miss L had initially 
said that it was, in fact, her guttering that had brought the neighbours guttering down.
Our investigator upheld this complaint as he was persuaded that Miss Ls guttering was 
brought down by Miss Ls neighbours guttering being in a poor state of repair.
AIE didnt agree as it remained of the opinion that Miss Ls guttering failed due to wear and 
tear and reiterated that Miss L had at first said it was her guttering that had brought down all 
the guttering.
As AIE didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Miss L is claiming for loss or damage arising from her guttering giving way following a period 
of heavy rainfall. Under the terms of her insurance policy, Miss L may be able to claim for the 
loss of damage by either:
1. Demonstrating the loss arose from a storm; or
2. Showing it was caused by accidental damage arising from a sudden or unexpected 
event.
In either circumstance, the terms of the insurance policy also excludes cover where the 
failure is down to wear or tear, or happened gradually. However, also in this case, while 
there was a high level of rainfall, the weather conditions werent to the extent to be 
considered a storm as defined by the terms of the policy. This isnt disputed by either party, 
so I wont comment further on this. The issue for me to decide is whether it was fair for AIE 
to say the loss wasnt down to accidental damage. 
The terms of the policy defines accidental damage as:
Sudden, unexpected and physical damage which:
(i) happens at a specific time; and
(ii) was not deliberate; and
(iii) was caused by something external and identifiable.
Its not disputed that the guttering suddenly collapsed, but AIE says the policy also says it 
wont cover loss or damage which happens gradually or is caused by normal wear and 
tear. And it says its surveyor has said that the guttering failed due to wear and tear. 
However, Im more persuaded by the information Miss L has provided. Ill explain why.
Ive found the surveyor report provided by Miss L to be particularly persuasive here. Hes 
highlighted maintenance issues relating to the neighbours property, not only limited to the 
guttering. But, in particular, Ive found the statement by Miss Ls neighbours neighbour to be 
the most persuasive. Hes gone into detail about the conversations he had with Miss Ls 
neighbour regarding the condition of the guttering. Hes also provided photos which show the 
guttering being in a very poor state of repair before the collapse. So Im persuaded that 
Miss Ls neighbours guttering was in a poor state of repair before the incident. And its clear 
there was a very real concern that it was in a perilous state. It seems to me that its most 
likely that the failure of the neighbours part of the guttering is the catalyst that caused the 
remaining guttering to give way.
But, I also need to think about whether this was the primary cause for Miss Ls gutters to 
collapse  i.e. was there another reason for them to collapse as well. AIE says Miss Ls 
gutters failed due to wear and tear as its surveyor has said the following:
On carrying out our inspection we found damage to the cast iron guttering to the rear of the 
property. The complete length of guttering to the rear of the property had come down 
including all fixings. Around 6 meters in total. When inspecting the fascia boards up close we 
found these to be wooden and noted they were showing gradual operating decline of age 
related wear and tear and weathering. The wood was rotting and around the fixing holes in 
poor condition. The guttering had fallen partly on the single story roof below causing damage 
to the slate tiles. There was damage to around 5 or 6 slate tiles which was causing water 
ingress to the kitchen when it rains. Another section of the guttering had fallen on the fence 
and damaged the fence and also on the stone window ledge which was chipped for the 
lounge window.
I acknowledge that the wood supports were wearing, but I need to decide whether I think this 
was the primary reason or at least a significant contributing factor to the guttering coming 
down  in short do I think the guttering would have come down even if I think the wood 
supports were in a stronger state. I think they would have done.The statement by Miss Ls neighbour is strong evidence and is supported by photographs 
that her neighbours guttering was in a really poor condition. It seems to me that this is the 
underlying and primary reason for all the subsequent damage. I dont think Miss Ls guttering 
came away because of a gradual deterioration or wear and tear, but because of the failure of 
her neighbours guttering. Im satisfied that that the loss or damage is down to accidental 
damage as defined under the terms of the insurance policy.
I acknowledge AIEs comments that Miss L initially said her guttering brought the rest down, 
but this hasnt changed my opinion as Im satisfied the evidence supports what Ive said 
above. And it seems to me that Miss L wasnt aware of the issues with her neighbours 
guttering until after she reported the incident to AIE. 
But, even if this wasnt the case, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for AIE to have 
declined the subsequent damage caused by the guttering falling away. As a result of this, 
damage occurred to a number of roof slates, damage to the fence and window ledge and 
water ingress occurred as a result of the damage to the slates. But, even if I thought the 
guttering failed due to wear and tear  i.e. it wasnt a sudden or unexpected event  the 
consequential damage was caused by a sudden and unexpected event and should have 
been covered. But I dont need to comment on this further, given Im satisfied that the 
original failure to the guttering was as a result of accidental damage. So I think AIE should 
arrange to rectify all the damage thats occurred.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to arrange for the damage to the guttering and the 
resulting damage to be repaired at no cost to Miss L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman