DRN-4355287
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Currys Group Limited trading as Knowhow (CGL) and the way they 
handled the claim she made after her washing machine broke down.
What happened
In 2012, Mrs H purchased a washing machine. Alongside this washing machine, Mrs H 
agreed to pay a monthly premium for a care plan, provided by CGL.
Unfortunately, in November 2022, Mrs Hs washing machine broke down. So, under the 
terms of the care plan, CGL arranged for an engineer to attend Mrs Hs home and repair the 
washing machine. But a repair wasnt possible and so, the washing machine was deemed 
beyond economical repair.
The following day, CGL issued vouchers worth £229 to Mrs H, to allow her to purchase a like 
for like replacement, in line with the care plan terms. But Mrs H was unhappy with the value 
of the vouchers, as she didnt think it was reasonable to expect her to purchase the intended 
like for like replacement of that value due to the online reviews shed seen. So, she wanted 
the value of the vouchers to be increased.
CGL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the value of the vouchers 
offered were fair, and in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Mrs H remained unhappy with this response, so she 
referred her complaint to us.
While the complaint was with our service, CGL made two offers to resolve the complaint as 
gestures of goodwill without accepting they did anything wrong. Initially, CGL offered to 
increase the value of the vouchers to £399, in line with Mrs Hs request, plus a partial 
contribution of £250 towards Mrs Hs laundry costs. Mrs H rejected this offer, and CGL 
offered to increase their contribution to Mrs Hs laundry costs to £520.
Our investigator considered this offer, and thought it was a fair one. They explained their 
belief that CGL hadnt done anything wrong when offering Mrs H a voucher of £229, as this 
fell within the terms of the agreement Mrs H held. So, they thought CGLs good will gestures 
were both fair and reasonable, as our investigator didnt think this was something CGL 
needed to do.
Mrs H didnt agree. And she explained she wanted compensation for the time shed been 
without a washing machine. Our investigator explained they didnt think compensation was 
necessary, as they didnt think CGL had done something wrong that led to Mrs H being 
without a washing machine. They thought it was Mrs Hs own decision to reject the first 
voucher offer, which our investigator thought was fair. So, our investigator didnt think CGL 
needed to do anything more. Mrs H remained unhappy and so, the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision.
During this time, CGL made our service aware of their belief the agreement Mrs H held 
wasnt an insurance product. And in that situation, the complaint would fall outside of our 
jurisdiction. Our investigator considered CGLs comments but set out why they felt the 
agreement was a contract of insurance, referring to the rules and regulations our service 
works within.
CGL accepted our investigators view and agreed for our service to continue with our 
investigation and for a final decision to be issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its important to note CGLs comments 
regarding the agreement Mrs H held. I note CGL stated this wasnt an insurance product. 
And I can see our investigator considered these comments, before setting out why they 
disagreed. Following this, I can see CGL accepted our investigators view, and agreed for our 
service to continue with the complaint. Because of this, Im satisfied this issue is no longer in 
dispute and so, I dont intend to discuss this issue any further. And Ive continued to issue a 
decision at the request of both CGL and Mrs H.
First, I want to recognise the impact felt by Mrs H. I appreciate her original washing machine 
broke down through no fault of her own, and this significantly impacted her ability to wash 
her clothes in a convenient way. So, to prevent this happening again, I can understand why 
Mrs H would want to ensure a replacement was fit for purpose and unlikely to break down. 
And when Mrs H read negative reviews regarding the replacement CGL used to calculate 
their original voucher offer, I can understand why Mrs H was reluctant to purchase this 
model and want another instead. 
And as CGL refused to do so, leaving Mrs H without the voucher amount she wanted for the 
model she identified, I can understand why Mrs H felt she was treated unfairly and why shed 
wanted her costs to be reimbursed alongside compensation.
But for me to say CGL should be responsible for these costs, and any additional 
compensation, I first need to be satisfied CGL have done something wrong. So, Id need to 
be satisfied they failed to act in line with the terms of the agreement Mrs H held when putting 
forward their first offer in November 2022. Or, if I think they did act within these, that they 
acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms of the agreement. And they explain, where an appliance such as Mrs Hs 
washing machine cant be fixed, Mrs H could request a replacement product within 21 
days. The agreement goes onto explain that Usually, the replacement will be in the form of 
vouchers to purchase a product of equivalent specification.
In this situation, CGL paid Mrs H the initial voucher the day after it was deemed a repair 
couldnt be completed. So, within the 21-day time period set out within the agreement. And 
the voucher value was for a replacement model of the same make, weight capacity and spin 
speed. So, Im satisfied the initial voucher value allowed Mrs H to purchase a product of an 
equivalent specification. And because of this, Im satisfied CGL acted within the terms of the 
policy, and that the voucher value initially provided to Mrs H was fair. So, I dont think I can 
say CGL did anything wrong here.I appreciate Mrs H doesnt agree. And shes explained why she wasnt willing to purchase 
the replacement product CGL earmarked. But I think this was Mrs Hs own decision, based 
on her own opinions generated from reviews shed read. So, if Mrs H wanted a product of a 
different specification, that cost more than the vouchers she received, then I think it was 
ultimately Mrs Hs responsibility to pay the additional amount.
The policy CGL provided was designed to ensure Mrs H was covered financially for a like for 
like replacement of an equivalent product, and I think the initial voucher value allowed Mrs H 
to purchase such a product. So, I think that any inconvenience Mrs H suffered after these 
vouchers were received was created by Mrs Hs own decision, rather than anything CGL did 
wrong. And because of this, I dont think I can say CGL need to do anything more, including 
pay Mrs H any compensation.
But I do note that CGL have offered Mrs H an increase in voucher value to £399. And a 
further £520 payment to cover Mrs Hs laundry costs as she has yet to purchase a 
replacement washing machine. These offers were made as a gesture of goodwill by CGL 
and it is now up to Mrs H whether she wishes to accept this offer. Mrs H will need to contact 
CGL directly to discuss this and arrange any payment.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Currys Group 
Limited trading as Knowhow.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman