DRN-4255815
The complaint
Miss C, with the assistance of an appointed representative, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale agreement (agreement) 
she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In September 2020 Miss C acquired a used car costing £8,839 financed by an agreement 
from Moneybarn. 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss C undertook to make 
47 monthly repayments of £331.19. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£15,565.93 at an APR of 36.9%.
Miss C says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said it 
had performed a number of checks before agreeing to lend which included:
a full credit search (with a credit reference agency) which provided details of Miss Cs 
current borrowing levels and repayment history (including any arrears and defaults)
an independent check of Miss Cs declared net monthly income of £1,800 (with a 
credit reference agency)
the use of statistical data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to estimate 
Miss Cs level of non-discretionary expenditure (including housing, council tax utilities 
and vehicle costs)
the use of information (from a credit reference agency) to assess Miss Cs ongoing 
monthly borrowing commitments
Moneybarn said that from the above checks it was able to establish:
Miss C had one or more defaults, but the latest of these was 44 months old
Miss C had two county court judgements registered against her, but these were 
nearly four years old with one marked as satisfied
Miss Cs net monthly income was £1,800 as declared by her
Miss Cs non-discretionary expenditure was £388 a month
Miss Cs current borrowing commitments were £402 a month
Miss C had a disposable income of £964.93 being £1,800 less £388 less £402 
less £45.07 (an additional allowance to allow for variations in any estimates made)
Moneybarn also pointed out that Miss C signed to say that her net monthly income was no 
less than £1,800 and her non-discretionary expenditure was no more than £964.93.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Cs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be 
upheld. She said that in all the circumstances Moneybarn could and should have made 
further enquiries about Miss Cs financial position and personal circumstances before it 
agreed to lend. 
But she wasnt persuaded, based on what Miss C had provided our service about her 
financial position and personal circumstances in, and immediately prior, to September 2020 
that further (and proportionate) checks by Moneybarn would have, or should have, caused it 
not to lend.
Miss C didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn and Miss Cs appointed representative will be familiar with all the rules, 
regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning 
unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out 
in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our 
website.
Before agreeing to lend, I think Moneybarn did enough to verify Miss Cs income. There is 
also nothing in the bank statements supplied to our service by Miss C that would suggest her 
income was less than the sum of £1,800.00 a month declared by her. Also, Im satisfied that 
in agreeing to lend Moneybarn didnt take into account any payments made to Miss C that 
could be described as irregular or one offs.
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit checks it completed. But based on what it 
says these checks uncovered I, like the adjudicator, think it should have made further 
enquiries into Miss Cs non-discretionary expenditure rather than relying on what it did to 
establish the same (including the use of statistical data from the ONS). 
Ive considered what Miss C says her non-discretionary expenditure was in mid 2020 and 
what her bank statements (covering the period 10 June to 9 September 2020) show. And 
having done so Im satisfied that had Moneybarn asked Miss C what her non-discretionary 
expenditure was, rather than relying on what it did, it wouldnt have concluded (nor should it 
have concluded) that the agreement was unaffordable. Also, and for the avoidance of doubt, 
Im not saying that Moneybarn should have asked for bank statements from Miss C.
For the sake of completeness, I would also add that Ive seen nothing in the credit report 
provided to our service by Miss C dated January 2023 that contradicts what Moneybarn says 
its credit check uncovered.
Given what I say above I can confirm that Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly 
(or irresponsibly) in lending to Miss C in September 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman