DRN-3535626
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Computershare Investor Services Plc (Computershare) stopped his 
dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) on his share plan account and failed to notify him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Computershare has accepted our Investigators opinion, but Mr S has disagreed with 
the amount of compensation recommended and maintains it is unacceptable that 
Computershare decided to stop the DRIP without consulting him. The facts are not in 
dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence, Im satisfied Computershare suspended the DRIP due to the new 
Spanish Financial Transaction Tax (FTT) which came into place.
As a regulated business, Computershare has several obligations it must adhere to. It 
also has a certain amount of commercial discretion regarding how it operates, and 
the products and services it chooses to offer its customers. I cant say 
Computershare have acted unfairly by choosing to stop offering a DRIP service to its 
customers for shares impacted by the FTT.
There is also no obligation for Computershare to have consulted with Mr S about this 
decision prior to making it. However, both parties have agreed that Mr S wasnt 
notified of this change prior to his first cash dividend being paid. Im satisfied it would 
have been fairer for Computershare to notify Mr S of this change prior to any cash 
payment to prevent any confusion or upset. Computershare have paid Mr S £75 and 
apologised to acknowledge this error.
To award any compensation Id need to be satisfied that the impact of 
Computershares error was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. And its 
clear that this is the case  Mr S had to take time to deal with the issue, liaise with his 
Bank and deal with some confusion when he received his first cash payment 
dividend. But I think that in the circumstances, the offer of £75 that Computershare 
has already made is fair and reasonable compensation for its failure to notify Mr S.
As this payment has already been made, I conclude that Computershare do not have 
to do any more to resolve the complaint
For these reasons, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman