DRN-2253239
The complaint
  Mrs J complains that Volkswagen Financial Services Limited (VWFS) unfairly asked her to 
repay  money paid to her in error. She would like the money owing written off.
What happened
 Mrs J says a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with VWFS was stolen 
in January 2020. She says her insurer covered the loss of the car the same month.
Mrs J says in March 2020 she then  received a payment of £9,727.71 from VWFS. She says 
she queried this with VWFS who referred her to the insurance company. Mrs J says the 
insurer told her the account was settled in full. So, at this point she believed the money was 
hers.
Mrs J says VWFS then contacted her in July 2020 to ask for the money to be refunded as it 
had been paid to her in error. Mrs J says by this time she had used the money so wasnt 
able to pay it back. Also, she doesnt feel she should have to as she had understood the 
money to be hers.
She says this  situation has caused her significant stress not helped by receiving debt 
collection letters for a debt she didnt believe she had.
VWFS explained that it received a total payment of £43,879.14 from the insurance company. 
As the payment only had Mrs Js agreement number linked to it  believed the payment was 
only in relation to her claim. As the settlement figure for the loss of the car was £34,151.43 
this left an outstanding amount which it paid to Mrs J in March 2020 having not received any 
other instructions from the insurer.
Unfortunately, in investigating another complaint it became clear that the £9,727.71 related 
to that claim not to Mrs Js. As the payment had been made in error it then contacted Mrs J 
to recover the money. It feels its fair to recover the money since it was paid in error.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Js complaint. He found the payment had been made in error 
and VWFS could have done more. For example, when Mrs J queried the payment it could 
have investigated rather than refer her to the insurer.  But he also found that Mrs J hadnt 
been given an adequate explanation of the payment so had reached her own conclusions 
that the money was due to her 
He found that Mrs J did owe the money  to VWFS but felt recommended VWFS pay £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience. He also felt that VWFS should ensure no 
adverse information had been recorded on Mrs Js credit file.
VWFS accepted this view but Mrs J didnt. She felt the level of compensation wasnt enough 
given the distress caused, the effect on her health , the time spent dealing with this matter 
and the future interest payments she will incur refunding this money. And she found it a 
surprising conclusion to the view issued
She felt she had a legitimate belief the money was due to her, she took appropriate steps to 
query the payment and waited for four months before spending the money. In contrast she 
says VWFS didnt investigate the matter when she first contacted them but left her to resolve 
the matter by referring her to the insurers
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. He said Mrs J would 
have been aware of the settlement figure as she had received a copy of the settlement letter.  
He understood Mrs J asked the insurer if her account was settled and was told it was. But he 
didnt feel that addressed the problem he didnt feel either conversation with VWFS or the 
insurer wouldnt have led MRs J to believe the money was hers.
Mrs J didnt accept this further view and asked for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mrs J feels strongly about this and I do understand why. She received a significant sum of 
money  over £9,000 which she believed was hers. So, I dont doubt it must have been very 
stressful when she was told the money was paid to her in error and had to be returned. 
Added to that she had to deal with debt collection letters.
Mrs J did make an offer to pay half of the amount in question to resolve her complaint after 
she received our investigators view.  We put this suggestion to VWFS to see if it found this 
an acceptable solution. Unfortunately, despite our investigators best efforts to pursue this , 
VWFS  has not responded to this offer. It did provide other information we requested at the 
same time  mainly a copy of the phone call Mrs J made in which she discussed the 
payment  so we do know it received details of  Mrs Js offer. I think it has had enough time 
to accept this offer if it were going to do so ,but given it hasnt responded I have to assume it 
doesnt accept Mrs Js offer 
Theres no dispute that the money was paid in error to Mrs J. From the information I have 
seen its clear the payment the insurer made to VWFS was to cover two claims not just Mrs 
Js.  Its not Mrs Js fault that she received a payment in error. 
VWFS has explained  when insurance payments are made there is sometimes a surplus 
payment. In these situations, its normal process is to refund any perceived equity in the 
agreement to the consumer. So, I can understand why VWFS made the payment it did. And 
given the payment from the insurer only had Mrs Js reference on it wasnt  unreasonable for 
VWFS to have concluded the payment sole related to Mrs Js case. So, I am not persuaded 
VWFS was wrong to make the payment.
I have now had the opportunity to listen to the phone call Mrs J made to VWFS on receipt of 
the payment. Its clear from that call that VWFS advised Mrs J to contact her insurer if she 
wasnt clear about the payment. And the adviser did suggest she didnt spend the money. 
He didnt confirm the money had been correctly paid or that it was Mrs Js to do what she 
wished with.
I understand Mrs J did contact her insurer and she has told us the insurer told her the 
account as settled in full. That was correct but it seems the information it gave VWFS led 
VWFS to make the payment to Mrs J. I believe Mrs J also received a settlement letter from 
the insurer so from that she would have realised what the actual settlement figure was This complaint is about VWFS so I can only consider its actions not those of a third party. 
Mrs J can of course contact her insurer to pursue this further if she feels its appropriate to 
do so.
I dont think I can reasonably ask VWFS to write off the debt or to take up Mrs Js offer of 
repaying half of the amount in question. I think VWFS made the payment genuinely 
believing, on the information it had received ,that the payment was due to Mrs J. But when it 
realised a mistake had been made, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to seek to recover 
the repayment. Particularly as it had not categorically confirmed Mrs J was entitled to the 
money.
I agree with our investigator that VWFS could have done more to help Mrs J.  I think it could 
have been more proactive. For example rather than referring her to the insurer for an 
explanation it could have taken responsibility for the payment and called the insurer itself. 
So, I agree with our investigators recommendation that VWFS pay Mrs J £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
I also think its reasonable that any adverse information currently recorded, if any , on Mrs Js 
credit file in relation to this overpayment is removed. But going forward Mrs J will have to 
make arrangements to repay this sum to VWFS and she needs to be aware if she doesnt do 
so this may result on negative information on her credit file.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited should :-
Pay Mrs J £200 for distress and inconvenience
Ensure no adverse information is currently recorded on Mrs Js credit file with regard 
to the overpayment 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman