DRN-1812926
complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 
1990 and 2001. Mr S says Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. Mr S applied for the credit card and PPI online in 1999. I think its likely 
there wasnt a further application in 2001. I think its more likely Mr Ss credit card 
was upgraded and there was no separate application; it doesnt make a difference to 
the outcome of my decision whether there were two applications or one. There was a 
separate section for PPI in the online application where Mr S couldve ticked a box to 
say that he did or didnt want it. Barclays have provided information from his 
application that shows he chose to take it. Mr S couldnt have progressed through his 
application without making a choice.
 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. And I havent seen anything which 
suggests the PPI was unaffordable for Mr S. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
 
But Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what he has said about the PPI being 
just part of the application and that he believed he was guaranteed to receive the credit card 
if he selected PPI  as well as that Mr S had sick pay and other means to meet his 
repayments - but this doesnt change my decision.
 
what the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Mr S any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr S the difference 
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr S 8%* simple 
interest if Mr S paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman