DRN-3025202
The complaint
Mr K complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined his claim 
for terminal illness cover on his life insurance policy unfairly.
What happened
In 2019, Mr K took out a life insurance policy with L&G. The policys sum assured is  
£200,000 if Mr K dies or is diagnosed with a terminal illness within its 20-year term.
Mr K contracted Covid-19 in 2020 and became very unwell  he was admitted to intensive 
care, experienced organ-failure and was in a coma for several months. In October 2020, 
Mr K contacted L&G to make a claim for terminal illness cover.
L&G said Mr Ks policy provides terminal illness cover only if (in the opinion of his hospital 
consultant and its medical officer) he has less than 12 months to live. It said Mr K hadnt 
provided any evidence to show his consultant said he has less than 12 months to live, L&G 
declined his claim. Mr K disagreed with L&Gs decision and complained, saying Covid-19 is 
a new illness and its long-term implications are unknown, and its difficult to quantify his life 
expectancy. When L&G didnt change its claims decision, he referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ks complaint but didnt uphold it, noting none of 
Mr Ks doctors were willing to say he had less than 12 months to live. The investigator didnt 
think L&G was obliged to pay Mr Ks claim for terminal illness cover. He said L&Gs handling 
of the claim was reasonable, and L&G had explained the evidence it would need to see 
before it would reconsider Mr Ks claim.
Mr K disagreed, saying hed provided evidence his condition was life-threatening and the 
facts showed his mortality was less than 12 months upon admittance to hospitalisation. 
He said there was no cure for Covid-19, hed been in a coma for 5-6 months and medical 
research showed he had only a 20% chance of survival and 1% chance of a full recovery. 
He said he thought doctors werent allowed to tell a patient their life expectancy and L&G 
was wrong to ask for this information. So this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr K has been seriously unwell. Having considered the evidence 
available, I think L&Gs decision to decline Mr Ks claim for terminal illness cover is a 
reasonable one. In explaining my decision, I wont comment on every point Mr K has made. 
Instead, Ill comment on what I consider to be the crux of Mr Ks complaint and the key 
reasons why I dont think it should be upheld.
The terms of Mr Ks policy say terminal illness cover is an advance payment of the policys 
sum assured where the life insured has a terminal illness. The policy goes on to say:
Terminal illness is defined as a definite diagnosis by your hospital consultant of an 
illness that satisfies both of the following: 
The illness either has no known cure or has progressed to the point where it cannot be 
cured; and
In the opinion of your  hospital consultant and our Medical Officer (a qualified doctor 
employed by Legal & General), the illness is expected to lead to death within 12 
months.
Mr K thinks L&G shouldnt be able to ask for notice of his death, and that doctors arent 
allowed to say how long a patient has left to live. Hes provided a link to the General Medical 
Councils code of practice, which sets out the duties of a doctor. Hes also sent an email 
from an administrator at his local Healthwatch organisation that says as far as we are 
aware, healthcare professionals are unable to provide letters explicitly stating when a patient 
will pass away, they can however provide a letter disclosing any health conditions and their 
professional opinion.  Ive seen nothing in the information Mr K has sent us that suggests 
the terms of Mr Ks policy are unlawful, unreasonable or unusual in life insurance policies. 
Hospital consultants routinely tell patients with a terminal illness how long they might live for 
based on their professional opinion. 
For Mr K to make a successful terminal illness claim, the terms of the policy require his 
hospital consultant and L&Gs medical officer to both be of the opinion that Mr Ks illness is 
expected to lead to his death within 12 months. Ive seen no evidence to suggest any 
hospital consultant has said Mr Ks illness is expected to lead to his death within 12 months. 
Mr K has provided a letter from an occupational therapist, which says Covid-19 can result in 
fatality due to complications in patients with underlying health conditions. But this letter goes 
on to say this is purely my opinion as I am not an expert and only a therapist in my position 
however you need a medical person to explain it further. The letter isnt from Mr Ks hospital 
consultant and it doesnt say Mr Ks illness is expected to lead to his death within 12 months. 
For the reasons explained above, I think L&G has handled Mr Ks claim reasonably. I dont 
think Mr K has shown a hospital consultant has given a definite diagnosis his illness is 
expected to lead to his death within 12 months, so I dont think Mr K has shown he meets 
the terms of his policy. It follows I dont think L&G needs to pay his claim for terminal illness 
cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021. 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman