DRN-3154946
The complaint
Miss W feels that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt tell her that her overdraft 
would incur overdraft interest, as a result she feels the interest was applied unfairly.
What happened
Miss W complained to NatWest about overdraft interest applied to her account. She says 
she was not aware the interest would be applied and could have avoided it if she had known.
NatWest looked at Miss Ws complaint, it felt the interest applied to her account was fair and 
explained that it had been set out in the terms and conditions of the account. NatWest also 
said that Miss W was receiving email and text notifications regarding her account, as well as 
bank statements, and so was notified of the interest as it was due to be applied. But as a 
gesture of goodwill, NatWest nonetheless offered to refund £500 of the interest that had 
been applied and waived some pending interest. NatWest also paid Miss W £50 to 
recognise that the level of service she received when making her complaint could have been 
better.
Miss W remained unhappy and so referred her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ws concerns, he explained that he didnt think 
NatWest had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Miss Ws account. Miss W disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint, Ill 
explain why.
I appreciate that Miss W says she was not aware of the interest and charges that would be 
applied to her account, but Im satisfied that NatWest did what it was required to do here. 
Ive seen evidence to show that Miss W was at various times signed up for email and text 
alerts which would tell her, for example, to check her statements, or when she was due to go 
over her limit. But even without those alerts, Miss W was issued with statements each month 
which set out any interest and charges that were due to be applied and which would have 
shown any charges or interest that had already been applied in the previous month. I know 
that Miss W has said she was very busy, and so didnt have time to check her statements, 
but it was still her responsibility to monitor her account. 
I also must bear in mind that the interest that would apply to any overdraft facility on the 
account was set out in the terms and conditions that Miss W agreed to when she opened her 
account. I appreciate that Miss W says she wasnt specifically told of the interest when she 
applied for her overdraft, but that doesnt change the fact that Miss W was still responsible 
for monitoring her accounts and raising any concerns she had about transactions  such as 
overdraft interest  that she wasnt expecting.
Im satisfied that the interest was applied in line with the terms and conditions of Miss Ws 
account, and with this in mind, I would only be able to find that NatWest had acted 
inappropriately or unfairly in applying overdraft interest or charges if I thought that NatWest 
was aware  or ought reasonably to have been aware  that Miss W was experiencing 
financial difficulties. But from looking at Miss Ws statements, while I can see that she did 
regularly use her overdraft, I can also see that Miss W was receiving regular large credits to 
her account throughout this period, which she would often transfer to other accounts she 
held. So on the face of it I dont think that NatWest would have seen anything to suggest that 
Miss W needed help. And Miss W has told us that she wasnt experiencing financial 
difficulties during this time.
With everything Ive seen, I dont think that NatWest has done anything wrong here. It did 
what it was require to do to notify Miss W of interest on her account, but has nonetheless 
refunded some interest as a gesture of goodwill, and so I dont think it needs to do anything 
more in the circumstances.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss W, but Im satisfied that NatWest 
hasnt treated her unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman