DRN-2752446
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Inter Partner Assistance S.A. (IPA) mishandled a claim on a 
home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one regulated
financial entity at a time. Where its a complaint about a claim under an insurance policy, we
deal with it as a complaint against the insurance company that was responsible for dealing
with that claim under that policy. 
In our final decision we name that insurance company, but we dont identify any other party. 
That means that we dont use titles, names, addresses or other identifiers such as job 
descriptions from which an identity might be pieced together.
Mr and Mrs B were over eighty years old and had some health and mobility issues. They had
a central heating system that included skirting board heating in their lower ground floor.
Mr and Mrs B had a home emergency policy branded with the name of an insurance
intermediary. IPA was the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims. Where I
refer to IPA, I include claims-handlers, engineers and others for whose actions I hold IPA
responsible.
Mr and Mrs B also had home buildings insurance under which another insurance company
was responsible for dealing with claims.
Mr and Mrs B had a leak of water from a link between skirting board heating units. He
contacted a civil engineer who put him in touch with a contractor. In order to stop the leak,
Mr and Mrs B were left with no central heating in the lower ground floor living area of their 
home.
Mr B contacted IPA on the afternoon of 20 February 2020. IPA established from the
contractor that the parts needed to repair the link were no longer being made. He said that 
the lower ground floor heating system would have to be removed and replaced. IPA declined 
to assist, saying that its policy didnt cover such replacement.
Mr and Mrs B complained to IPA that it hadnt tried to resolve the problem or communicated
properly.
IPA visited on 2 March 2020. IPA wrote a final response dated mid-March 2020. It said that
electrolytic reaction had caused faults in the coupler between two radiators. IPA said it would
send £100.00 for the delay before attending on 2 March 2020.
Mr and Mrs B had to arrange for someone else to replace the heating system. They brought
their complaint to us later in March 2020. They asked that IPA should pay for the new
heating system.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
as the policy didnt cover the replacement of the central heating system - it was reasonable
for IPA to decline the claim.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs B and to IPA on 10 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
IPA quickly said that it wouldnt cover replacement of the heating system. I
didnt find that unfair or unreasonable for two reasons:
1. The leak was from a steel pipe, repair or replacement of which was 
excluded by the policy terms; and
2. Mr B needed replacement of radiators which was excluded by the policy 
terms.
I noted that IPA had said it was sending a cheque for £100.00 for the delay before it 
attended on 2 March 2020. As that visit didnt change anything, I wasnt minded to 
find it fair and reasonable to direct IPA to pay any more than that.
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs B or from IPA, my provisional decision 
was that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Inter Partner Assistance S.A. 
to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B disagree with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
The provisional decision concentrates on the emergency contract. The main claim 
had to fit within either the emergency contract or the main contract. 
The investigator shouldve accepted the report of the plumber and civil engineer.
Radiators are to be considered what the public know as 'radiators' by common 
usage. Nothing more than this should be implied.
The independent investigator showed that the leak was due to a reaction between 
steel and copper components of the lower ground floor heating system. Because this 
problem was widespread, leaking could have occurred at any time or any place in 
this system. Despite this widespread problem, the insurers failed to sanction any 
repair / replacement of the defective heating system. 
The independent investigator had investigated the leak and explained that the only 
way that the leak could be repaired was by removing and replacing all the faulty 
material with a non-reactive material to provide a normal heating system.
The leaks satisfied the policy requirements. This was an event related to 'Internal 
Plumbing'; it was also a 'Home Emergency' involving a sudden unexpected event 
which needed immediate attention.
This leak was particularly important because they are a very old couple and he is 
very disabled. It was imperative that any damage should be minimised. The insurers had an obligation to make their home safe, secure and habitable. 
There were no radiators in the lower ground floor heating system. The insurers 
disbelief prevented them having heating and being habitability downstairs for 4 
months. This is negligence as well as a breach of contract.
The policy books gave an example of a problem with Internal Plumbing" as a "Home 
Emergency" and here the repair costs were set as 'unlimited'.
The integrated skirting board heating was part of the building and within the context 
of the home insurance. They were obviously eligible for rebuilding and repair. 
The Insurers covered an escape of water [water damage] with any leak including 
those from heating installations / fixed piping - and presumably also for replacing the 
damaged installation.
Neither the original system nor the new system required radiators.
He makes some comments about the investigators opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rather than to review the making of the investigators opinion, my role has been to look at all 
the evidence afresh and to reach my own decision.
Im dealing with a complaint against IPA arising from a claim under the home emergency
policy. Where I refer to policy terms, I refer to the home emergency policy terms. 
Damage caused by escape of water is usually covered by home buildings insurance. I will 
not make any findings against the other insurance company in relation to the claim under the 
home buildings insurance policy. Mr and Mrs B may be able to make a complaint to that 
other insurance company.
The home emergency policy terms included the following definition:
Home emergency
A sudden unexpected event, which in the insurers opinion requires immediate action
to:
a) prevent damage or further damage to your home; or
b) make your home safe or secure or habitable.
That mention of safe or secure or habitable doesnt create an obligation for the insurer to 
respond to a home emergency by making the home safe or secure or habitable. The policy 
terms say the following:
You are covered for the following
The insurer will appoint the required suppliers and will pay up to £2,000 per insured
event, for call out, labour, parts, materials and VAT following an insured event which
occurs during the period of insurance. This limit includes any costs incurred under
the overnight accommodation cover. There is no limit to the number of insured
events covered.So there was a policy limit of £2,000.00. The only reference to unlimited that Ive seen in 
the (home emergency) policy terms is to an unlimited number of call-outs each year.
The first insured event detailed under Home Emergency was as follows:
Plumbing
A home emergency relating to:
a) The internal hot and cold water pipes between the main internal stopcock and the
internal taps.
b) The cold water storage tank.
c) Failure of one or more of your toilets to function.
d) A leak from;
your toilet cistern;
your central heating water pipes
However, the policy terms excluded the following:
5. Repair or replacement of cylinders, replacing steel or asbestos water tanks,
immersion heaters, heating controls, water circulating and pressure pumps, radiators,
radiator valves, shower units and fittings, steel pipes and heated towel rails.
The policy terms also excluded the following:
18. Replacing or repairing any steel, lead or central heating iron pipes.
So the policy terms covered leaks from pipes but didnt cover repair or replacement of 
radiators or steel pipes.
Mr Bs contractor said the following:
there was no evidence that we removed, replaced or repaired any any steel, lead
or central iron pipes. None were observed. The links between the heating units were
noted to be of brass, steel and copper. The leakage from the link that was seen to be
leaking was said to be due an electrolytic reaction between the copper and steel
components of this and link and this was likely to occur all the other links in this
system.
Ive seen a photograph of a short section of metal cylinder linking two metal units. Above that
is a continuous section of conventional copper pipe. I find it likely that they all formed part of
a system containing circulating hot water. So I find it fair to characterise the metal cylinder as
a pipe and each of the metal units as a radiator.
From the photograph  and from the contractors description of brass, steel and copper - I
find that the link between the radiator units was a piece of steel pipe with at least one brass
or copper fixing.
From what Mr B has said, the leak from the link had caused water damage to the carpet. It
needed to be stopped to prevent further damage. So I accept that the water leak fell within
the policy definition of a home emergency. As it was a leak from Mr and Mrs Bs central
heating water pipes, the leak fell within the policy definition of an insured event.
However, the evidence is that Mr B involved the civil engineer and the contractor before he
rang IPA. From what Mr B has said, the contractor stopped the leak by turning off the lower
ground floor heating. Whilst this was disruptive for Mr and Mrs B, I dont think that their homewas completely without central heating. I dont agree that the home was uninhabitable or
unsafe.
After Mr B rang IPA, it checked with the contractor that it wasnt possible to repair or replace
the leaking link. IPA quickly said that it wouldnt cover replacement of the heating system. I
dont find that unfair or unreasonable (or a breach of contract or negligence) for two reasons:
1. The leak was from a steel pipe, repair or replacement of which was excluded by 
the policy terms; and
2. Mr B needed replacement of radiators which was excluded by the policy terms. I 
dont find it relevant whether Mr B replaced the radiators with other radiators or 
with something different.
I note that IPA said it was sending a cheque for £100.00 for the delay before it attended on 2
March 2020. As that visit didnt change anything, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
IPA to pay any more than that.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct IPA to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Inter Partner Assistance S.A. to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman