DRN-1536768
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which Mr V says 
Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold to him with a Mastercard. 
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr V 
disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Mr V says he wasnt told anything about the PPI and didnt need it. I certainly don't doubt he 
genuinely believes this now, but Lloyds told us its computer records tend to show Mr V took 
out his card account in 1996, which is obviously now some 24 years ago. 
We no longer have access to any of the actual sale documents about the PPI. However, this 
isnt particularly surprising or unusual, given how long ago it was and businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. So Ive used my knowledge and experience of PPI 
sales to help me think about what might have happened. Ive also looked carefully at what 
the parties have said. But given the difficult nature of the case, my decision is based on the 
balance of probabilities i.e. whats more likely to have happened.
Lloyds didnt have a copy of the application form Mr V used to get his credit card but it did 
send us an example of one that was in use at the time. Ive seen quite a few similar sales 
and the form corresponds with ones Ive seen before. The application form shows that Mr V 
would have been able to see he had a choice because there was a box that needed ticking if 
the consumer wanted this type of cover. It was described as Credit Card Payments 
Insurance. 
Theres no dispute that PPI was added, so I think this shows he probably ticked the PPI box. 
I also think his monthly credit card statements would have started to show any charges for 
PPI on them. If Mr V hadnt wanted the policy I think he would have wanted to know what 
these charges were for. 
So these things make me think its more likely Mr V agreed to the policy at the time and 
would have been able to see it had been set up on his account. I accept he may not 
remember this now.
Lloyds says it would have probably recommended the PPI cover with the credit card so this 
means it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mr Vs situation. I looked at 
Mr Vs age, job, health and general circumstances to help me decide about this. I think that Mr V was eligible for the PPI and I dont think he would have been caught by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see. We also now know the cost was around £0.71 per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr Vs card. Ive seen nothing that suggests Mr 
V would have found these monthly charges unaffordable.
I agree Mr V probably had some protection from sickness with his job. But this doesnt 
necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. In the event of a successful claim for example, Mr V 
wouldve been able to have the outstanding credit card balance reduced by 10% each month 
for up to 12 months. These benefits were accessible in addition to any other means he 
already had in place at the time. 
Taking all these things into account, I think the policy was probably suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to give Mr V clear information. I obviously cant confirm he was told 
everything he should have been told. But I can see the cost of the cover was outlined directly 
beside where he would have needed to make his choice on the form about the PPI. On 
balance, I think he probably agreed to the policy and would have been able to see that he 
had it in place. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt have to pay anything to Mr V.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman