DRN-1207864
The complaint
Mr G complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) unfairly declined cover for a 
claim and voided his motorcycle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G held a motorcycle insurance policy with MCE. His motorcycle was stolen, but was 
damaged when it was recovered. He claimed on the policy. MCE looked into his claim and 
said it wouldnt provide cover. It also voided his policy and said it wouldnt refund his 
premium. It said he didnt live at the address he gave when he took out the policy.
Mr G complained to MCE and when it didnt change its decision, came to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think MCE had done anything wrong. He thought MCE had shown it was 
more likely than not Mr G didnt live at the address hed given MCE. In this decision, Ill refer 
to this address as Address 1.  He noted in particular that Mr Gs driving licence gave a 
different address, which Ill refer to as Address 2. Mr G disagreed. He said the reason the 
driving licence gave his address as Address 2 was for business reasons. He's sent various 
documents addressed to him at Address 1. Hes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr G is a consumer I need to take into account The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This puts an obligation on consumers to take reasonable 
care not to misrepresent when they enter into a consumer insurance contract.  The act also 
says if the consumer fails to meet this obligation the insurer has a remedy against the 
consumer if it can show that without the misrepresentation it would not have entered into the 
contract at all, or would have done so only on different terms. This is what the Act describes 
as a Qualifying Misrepresentation.
In this case, MCE argues Mr G made a qualifying misrepresentation about his home 
address. When he took the policy out, he was asked for his postcode and first line of the 
address. He gave the details of Address 1. I think it's reasonable to assume that he believed 
he was being asked for his home address at that point. So MCE was entitled to take from 
what he said that he was living at Address 1.  But MCE says he was in fact living at Address 
2. The motorcycle was stolen from Address 2. Address 1 and Address 2 are about 30 miles 
apart. 
Mr G isnt the owner of either Address 1 or Address 2. Hes sent a number of pieces of 
correspondence addressed to him at Address 1. But Im not persuaded this definitely shows 
he was living at the address at the time he took out the policy. His driving licence gives his 
address as being at Address 2. I think this is important, especially in the context of his 
motorcycle insurance. The address given on the licence will be the one used for motoring 
correspondence from the DVLA and police, if needed. So I think the address on the licence 
is likely to be a persons home address. My enquiries also indicate Mr G was listed as the 
director of a business at the time he took out the policy. His address was given as Address 2. The business itself is registered to a different address. So I can see that Mr G has given 
Address 2 for correspondence to be sent to for both motoring and business purposes. This is 
persuasive evidence that he was living at Address 2 when he took out the policy.
So I think its more likely than not Mr G was living at Address 2 when he took out the policy. 
And so he should have told MCE this was his address. When he said he lived at Address 1, 
he didn't take reasonable care to provide accurate information to MCE.
Insurance premiums are based on a number of risk factors, including the policyholder's 
address. Address 1 also had a garage but Address 2 didnt. MCE's provided evidence 
showing that if M G had properly disclosed his address and that there was no garage, the 
premium it charged would have been higher. So Im satisfied that MCE has shown it would 
have entered into the contract on different terms if Mr G had given his correct address. So 
Im persuaded that Mr G did make a qualifying misrepresentation.
MCEs said that Mr Gs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. If this is the case, its 
entitled under CIDRA to void the policy and retain the premium paid. Ive accepted Mr G 
gave his home address as Address 1 when he was more likely than not to be actually living 
at Address 2. And I don't see any reason why he'd say he lived at Address 1 when he lived 
at Address 2 other than to misrepresent his circumstances to MCE. And so I don't think it 
was unreasonable for MCE to conclude that his misrepresentation was either 
made deliberately, or that Mr G was reckless when he said he lived at Address 1. I don't 
think there's any way that misrepresenting his home address could be considered to be 
careless on Mr G's part.  I don't think it was unfair of MCE to void his policy and retain the 
premium paid. 
When an insurer voids a policy on these terms, it does so from inception. This means that 
it is as if the policy never existed. And so any claim made under the policy isn't covered.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Ben Williams
Ombudsman