DRN-4271251
The complaint
Mr W complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) didnt advise him to, nor give him 
enough clear information to, consider the wider pension market and the option of an 
enhanced annuity.
What happened
In February 2010 Mr W called ReAssure (at the time Windsor Life) to enquire about taking 
his benefits.
ReAssure issued a retirement options pack which included information about the various 
options available to him. Included within this was the regulators, Financial Services Authority 
(FSA), factsheet that included more information about his options. 
ReAssure sent more information later in February following Mr W informing them of his 
choice. This contained information about his selected option and the various forms required 
should he wish to take his benefits and an About Our Services leaflet.
Mr W confirmed he wanted to take a 25% tax-free lump sum and purchase an annuity and 
that hed not received any advice from a financial adviser.
Mr Ws representative, complained to ReAssure in January 2023. They said that Mr W 
shouldve been advised to look at an enhanced annuity.
ReAssure rejected the complaint and explained it did not provide advice to Mr W, as it was a 
non-advised sale, but he was given clear information to make an informed choice.
The complaint was referred to this service and our investigator looked into matters. He 
concluded that ReAssure hadnt done anything wrong and it had given Mr W information 
about taking an enhanced annuity.
Mr Ws representatives disagreed. They said it wasnt enough for ReAssure simply to tell Mr 
W about his options. They argue that it ought to have given Mr W the various quotations to 
properly assess his options.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws representatives said ReAssure had failed to advise Mr W to review the whole of the 
market. And they referred to numerous bits of legislation which they say that ReAssure did 
not meet. However, the legislation they referred to post-dated the advice by a number of 
years and isnt retrospective. So it isnt relevant here. 
At the time when Mr W took his benefits in 2010, ReAssure as Mr Ws pension provider 
needed to give him all the relevant information to make an informed decision about his 
options. More specifically Ill set out the rules, good practice and industry context relevant 
here: 
COBS 2.1.1R (the clients best interests rule) requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (the fair, clear and not misleading information rule) requires a firm to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that a communication is fair, clear and not misleading.
Rules specific to annuity sales came into place on 1 November 2007 - COBS 19.4.1R(3) 
said the provider has to issue an open market option statement which it defines as either:
(a) the FSA's "Your pension: it's time to choose" factsheet, together with a written summary 
of the retail client's open market option, which is sufficient for the client to be able to make 
an informed decision about whether to exercise, or to decline to exercise, an open market 
option; or
(b) a written statement that gives materially the same information.
The FCA factsheet in use at the time was from 2009 and mentions both enhanced and 
impaired life annuities in relation to both health and lifestyle. Lifestyle uses the examples of 
being overweight or smoking. 
So from 1 November 2009 a provider shouldnt just tell a customer that annuity 
enhancements are only for someone in poor health, but might also cover lifestyle conditions 
such as being overweight, or smoking.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI), published in July 2008 a Good Practice Guide to 
Improving customers retirement experiences. The Guide stressed the importance of 
providing adequate information to customers in relation to enhanced annuities, encouraging 
providers to draw the customers attention to product features and terms and conditions that 
may significantly affect benefits. Under the Guide the provider should In quoting all available 
options draw the customers attention in good time to particular options that may be to their 
advantage.
More recently, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), decided to conduct an industry wide 
review of non-advised annuity sales made after 1 July 2008. This was generally known as 
the Thematic Review. The review examined whether customers were given enough 
information about the availability of, and their potential eligibility for, enhanced annuities. The 
review also examined if customers were made aware of the Open Market Option (OMO), 
where they could get an annuity from another provider.
The FCA also wanted to establish if customers were provided with sufficient information 
about enhanced annuities before they purchased their annuity. In particular the FCA wanted 
to establish if customers were made aware:
That they could receive a higher income if they had certain medical or lifestyle 
conditions. This is known as an enhanced annuity.
If they were eligible for an enhanced annuity with a firm that they could shop around for 
an enhanced annuity from another provider in order to potentially get a higher income; 
and
That even if they were not eligible for an enhanced annuity with a firm that they may still 
be eligible for an enhanced annuity from another provider.When Mr W contacted ReAssure about taking his benefits it said: 
You may wish to consult on your personal circumstances before making your choice. If you 
do, then you should consider taking independent professional advice. Please note you may 
have to pay for this.
Tell us what you decide and we will send you full details of the option you are interested in, 
with the paperwork we need you to fill in. 
And an accompanying leaflet said: 
You will not receive advice or a recommendation from us. We will provide you with the 
information you need. You will then need to make your own choice about how to proceed.
On the forms Mr W returned to ReAssure he ticked no in relation to the question as to 
whether hed sought advice.
So, I think its clear that ReAssure did not provide an advice service to Mr W. Its 
responsibility was to give him clear information in line with good practice and the relevant 
rules at the time.
Within the retirement pack Mr W was given numerous bits of information about the open 
market option.
The covering letter said Mr W had the option of taking an annuity with ReAssure or from 
another provider using the OMO. The retirement quote contained annuity quotes with 
ReAssure as well as the amount available as an OMO which could be used to buy an 
annuity with another insurance company. It stated 
You can decide to take your money built up with us and buy an annuity with another 
insurance company. You may get a better deal by shopping around.
The pack also included a section called Current pension benefits - what do I need to know?
If you wish to consult on your personal circumstances before deciding what to do, you 
should consider taking independent professional advice. Please note that this would be at 
your own expense.
5. Can I shop around?
In this pack we have included illustrations of how much money you could get from us under 
the different pension types. If you want to ask other providers for quotes on how much 
money they would give you, you must give them the transfer value shown on your yearly 
pension statement.
6. What else could I do? 
If you dont want one of the pension choices shown earlier in this brochure, then here are a 
few others you may wish to consider. You would need to exercise your right to shop around 
to buy one of these
Impaired Life Pension AnnuitySome companies offer pensions that are designed for people with health problems such as 
cancer, heart attack, stroke or renal failure.
The retirement pack also included the FSA factsheet called Just the facts about your 
pension - its time to choose. This factsheet explained the various retirement options 
available including the OMO and enhanced and impaired-life annuities. 
In respect of the OMO it stated Not all companies will deal with you direct so it may be 
advisable to consult a whole-of-market adviser, who should be able to look at all the annuity 
rates on offer. For enhanced and impaired life annuities it stated:
Some companies offer impaired-life annuities that pay a higher than normal income if you 
have health problems that threaten to reduce your lifespan.
You might be able to get an enhanced annuity if you are overweight or smoke regularly. 
Some companies offer higher rates to people who have followed certain occupations or 
people who live in certain parts of the country.
Always check whether you may be eligible for either of these options. Check whether you 
could get a better income because of your health, lifestyle, occupation or where you live.
It also included a flowchart to check through options. This said:
Do you have a history of poor health? 
Yes
Check if you are eligible for an impaired-life annuity.
You may be able to get an enhanced annuity if you are overweight, a smoker, have done 
some manual jobs or live in a particular part of the country. So this is worth checking.
The About our services leaflet issued to Mr W made it clear ReAssure was not offering 
products from the whole market as it stated, We only offer our own products.
From the evidence we have and from looking at the complaint submitted, it appears the 
information relied upon in this sale was largely physical documents and not verbal 
communication. And so evaluating the information provided is the key issue in this 
complaint.
The evidence shows that ReAssure did make Mr W aware of the open market option. And 
on a number of occasions. Mr W chose to continue with ReAssure rather than taking the 
OMO but as ReAssure did not give any advice, this was Mr Ws choice. 
In his complaint to this service Mr W has told us he had health issues and he was a heavy 
smoker and overweight. He was provided with information that said he may benefit from a 
higher annuity on the open market option due to health/lifestyle issues and specifically ones 
that hes told us he suffered from. So I think the information ought to have been clear to him 
that he may benefit from an impaired/enhanced annuity elsewhere due to his health/lifestyle. So I am satisfied that ReAssure gave Mr W sufficient and clear information about his options 
 that he wouldve understood. It may be perhaps that Mr W didnt read this information 
carefully, but I cant hold ReAssure responsible for that. It provided it to him. The evidence 
suggests ReAssure met the rules applicable at the time in the annuity sale and acted broadly 
in line with good practice at the time. Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable 
to uphold this complaint in light of the evidence and the particular circumstances, and Ive 
concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr Ws representatives have said ReAssure shouldve provided Mr W with quotations from 
other providers with which to make his decision. However, this wasnt something it was 
obliged to do at the time. But it did give Mr W the information on how to do this himself. That 
he chose to take an annuity with ReAssure was his choice and after considering the rules at 
the time and evidence provided  I dont think ReAssure did anything wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman