DRN-2116846
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with UK Insurance Limiteds (trading as Direct Line) decision to find him at 
fault following a car accident. Mr H doesnt feel UKI did enough to investigate the accident 
and trace a potential witness. He doesnt think it is fair that he has lost his no claims discount 
and excess. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt UKI had tried to settle 
the claim fairly. He said that UKI had discussed the case with an engineer who couldnt 
confirm whether the third-party driver was speeding. And the solicitors working with UKI had 
said the case wouldnt succeed in court. So, UKI had fairly decided that Mr H was at fault for 
the accident. He added that the £50 UKI offered for the way it had handled the claim was fair 
and reasonable. 
Mr H disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He says UKI has 
treated him unfairly when it accepted liability for the accident. And it hasnt done enough on 
his behalf to contact another driver who may have witnessed the incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr H feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
This service doesnt decide liability for an accident; thats a matter for the courts. But we do 
consider whether an insurer, UKI in this case, acted in accordance with the policy terms and 
made a fair decision.
Mr Hs policy says that UKI is entitled to take over and deal with a claim on his behalf. Its a 
common term in motor insurance policies. And wed expect it to be applied fairly. 
So, Ive considered whether UKI has treated Mr H fairly and reasonably when deciding if he 
was at fault. I believe UKI has considered Mr Hs testimony and the circumstances of the 
crash. It consulted with its solicitors to consider what its chances of successfully taking the 
third-party insurer to court were. The advice from the solicitors was that based upon what 
Mr H and the third-party had said, the chances of UKI losing were high. I dont think its 
unreasonable for UKI to consult and follow advice from its solicitors when deciding whether 
to accept liability on his behalf. This is standard industry practice and the terms and 
conditions allow UKI to make such a decision. 
I note UKI asked an engineer to study the damage caused to the cars to determine the 
speed at which the third-party was driving. But it couldnt obtain strong enough evidence of 
the speed of the other car to show the third-party was at fault.  
Mr H feels UKI shouldve done more to try and contact or speak to a potential witness of the 
accident. I understand the point Mr H is trying to make here, but I dont think this leads me to 
conclude UKI unfairly accepted liability on his behalf. Based upon the testimony given by 
Mr H and the third-party, UKI and the third-party insurer decided that it was Mr H that had 
pulled away from a parking position which UKI says is considered the same as changing 
lanes. As it was Mr Hs car moving into the road, UKI felt it should accept liability based upon 
the advice it had sought from its solicitors and engineer. And Im satisfied this was a 
reasonable position to take in the circumstances. 
UKI offered £50 for some of the delays it had caused in handling the claim. Claims where 
liability for the accident is disputed can take a while to resolve. And delays are to be 
expected when there are so many different parties involved in reviewing the claim. UKI has 
admitted that it couldve chased the third-party insurer more proactively, and Im satisfied its 
made a fair offer based upon the trouble and upset these delays caused Mr H. 
So, Im not going to ask UKI to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman