DRN-3407080
The complaint
Mr S complains that a motorbike hed acquired via a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr S acquired a new motorbike via a two-year hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. He says around three months later the motorbikes clutch started slipping and he 
took it to a local garage who tightened it.
Mr S says that the motorbike was fine for a while but an issue with the clutch developed 
again and so he took it back to the supplying dealer in June 2021. The dealership inspected 
the motorbike and had to order a part to fix the clutch. There was a delay in this part being 
delivered.
In September 2021 Mr S complained to MotoNovo that his motorbike was still awaiting repair 
and said it was unfair he had to continue to maintain the monthly payments. MotoNovo 
contacted the dealership who confirmed there was a fault with the bike but said in their 
opinion this hadnt been present at the point of supply. It explained there was a delay in the 
part being available.
The motorbike was repaired and returned to Mr S in October 2021. MotoNovo didnt uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. It said there was no evidence that the fault had either been developing or 
been present at the point of supply to Mr S. It said that due to the length of time Mr S had 
had the motorbike and the number of miles hed ridden on it, that an independent report was 
required to show that it had been inherently faulty.
Mr S was unhappy at MotoNovos response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She said the motorbike had required 
a repair to its clutch within the first three months of Mr S taking possession of it. It had then 
required further repairs in June 2021 after a mileage of just over 5,000. Our investigator said 
a clutch should reasonably be expected to last for between 20,000 and 50,000 + miles. So, a 
clutch wouldnt be expected to fail after only one year and 5,000 miles. She said she didnt 
think the motorbike had been as durable as reasonably would be expected.
Our investigator said that in these circumstances it would be fair for MotoNovo to reimburse 
Mr Ss monthly payments for the period he had been without the motorbike while it was 
awaiting repair. She also thought compensation of £150 would be fair for the distress and 
inconvenience caused with dealing with the faulty motorbike.
MotoNovo disagreed with our investigators view. It said that although it would accept that 
the clutch needing a repair so soon wouldnt be the norm there was no evidence that this 
was due to a fault that had been present or developing at the point of supply.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr S is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the motorbike was new so a reasonable person would have expected that there 
wouldnt be any issues with maintenance and repair for a reasonable period of time. I 
think there would be an expectation that the motorbike was fault free.
Mr S says that the motorbikes clutch started to slip after around three months and so he 
took it to a local garage for it to be tightened. I havent seen any job card for that repair, so 
I dont know what that garage said or whether it gave any opinion as to an issue with the 
motorbike. However, after that repair it appears Mr S was able to use the motorbike 
without a problem for around nine months before another issue with the clutch arose in 
June 2021. By this time Mr S had ridden the motorbike for around 5,000 miles.
Ive seen that there is no evidence that the fault with the motorbike was either present or 
developing at the point of supply. Its unfortunate that in MotoNovos final response letter 
to Mr S in respect of his complaint, it states the dealership had said the fault had been 
present since Mr S had acquired the motorbike as this is actually an error. Looking at the 
contact notes supplied by MotoNovo its clear that the supplying dealership had actually 
said the fault with the clutch wouldnt have been present or developing at the point of 
supply.
Our investigator has said that she doesnt think that the clutch was as durable as a 
reasonable person would have expected and that therefore this means the motorbike 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. And Ive seen that MotoNovo has also accepted that the 
clutch requiring repair as soon as it had wouldnt be the norm but maintains its stance 
that as the fault wasnt present at the point of supply then it shouldnt be held liable.
While I appreciate a clutch is a wear and tear item it does have a guideline life span of 
between 20,000 and 50,000 miles. Here, Mr S has ridden the motorbike for around 5,000 
miles which is substantially lower. Ive seen no evidence that would suggest that this the 
fault may be due to the way Mr S has used the motorbike. The dealership has said that 
the fault with the clutch was that the input shaft bush has failed allowing movement in the 
transmission shaft and associated gears and clutch basket. It also says this wasnt a fault that would have been present or developing at the point of supply. There hasnt been an 
independent inspection of the motorbike and its clutch.
So, although the fault with the clutch doesnt appear to have been either developing or 
present at the point of supply of the motorbike to Mr S, I think that a reasonable person 
wouldnt consider it to have been durable given that the clutch needed repair so soon. As I 
dont consider the motorbike was durable, I dont think it was of satisfactory quality at the 
point Mr S acquired it. And Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
In considering what would be a fair redress for Mr Ss complaint, I think he should be 
reimbursed his monthly payments under the agreement for the period he was without the 
motorbike while he waited for it to be repaired.
I also think it would be fair that he is compensated for the distress and inconvenience 
caused having to deal with the faulty motorbike. I agree with our investigator that £150 is 
fair to reflect the impact this has had.
I understand that the motorbike was repaired under the warranty and is now in full working 
condition. As the repairs have been successful and the motorbike returned, I dont think it 
would be reasonable for Mr S to now reject it and unwind the agreement.
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to do the following:
Reimburse Mr S his monthly payments under the agreement for the period he was 
without the motorbike (June until October 2021). This payment is to include interest 
at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr S £150 compensation for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused
dealing with the faulty goods.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file about this agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Im asking MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to do the following: 
Reimburse Mr S his monthly payments under the agreement for the period he was 
without the motorbike from June until October 2021. This payment is to include 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr S £150 compensation for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused
dealing with the faulty goods.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file about this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman