DRN-4383542
The complaint
Miss H and Mr B complain that Nationwide Building Society gave them poor advice about 
switching interest rate products when they ported their mortgage. They say they are paying 
more each month as a result. 
What happened
Miss H and Mr B have a mortgage with Nationwide. They contacted Nationwide in March 
2022 as they were moving home. Nationwide recommended they port their interest rate 
products rather than pay an early repayment charge (ERC). 
Miss H and Mr B complain that:
Nationwide failed to take the wider economic circumstances  in particular the risk of 
interest rate rises  into account in March 2022. They say theyd have been better off 
paying the ERC and taking out a fixed interest rate product before rates increased. 
They contacted Nationwide when they realised there would be a gap between their sale 
and purchase completing. Nationwide said they could port on a non-simultaneous basis. 
It didnt tell them theyd be unable to switch products between their sale and purchase.
They were given incorrect information and experienced a number of problems when they 
tried to switch products after porting.
Interest rates increased during this time, and theyre now paying about £200 per month 
more than they should be.
Nationwide said it had given Miss H and Mr B correct information. As an apology for any 
confusion about when their products would expire it paid £250 and said it would allow Miss H 
and Mr B to adjust the start date of their new products. 
Our investigator said Nationwide had given Miss H and Mr B correct information and its offer 
was fair. 
Miss H said while the advice in March 2022 could have been better, she accepted it was 
their decision to go with the advice. But she said theyd have acted differently if theyd been 
given correct information about the implications of porting when theres a gap between the 
sale and purchase. She said theyd have paid the ERC and taken out a new product.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
When Miss H and Mr B spoke to Nationwide in March 2022, they had two active mortgage 
products. One was due to expire on 30 September 2022 (this applied to about £155,000) 
and the other was due to expire on 21 December 2022 (this applied to about £9,000). Miss H 
and Mr B also wanted to take out additional borrowing, for which theyd need a third product.
Ive listened to Miss H and Mr Bs call with Nationwide in March 2022. Miss H asked whether 
they could pay off the existing mortgage and start again or if theyd be charged. Nationwide 
said there was an ERC, but they could still redeem the mortgage and pay the ERC. Miss H 
said shed looked at the ERC and paying it was pointless. 
Later in the call, the adviser said there were two options. They could port the existing 
products and take out a new product for the additional borrowing. Or they could pay the 
ERC. The adviser said it wasnt cost effective to pay the ERC. The adviser said Miss H and 
Mr B would need to look into taking out new products in September/October 2022.
The five-year fixed rate Miss H and Mr B chose in March 2022 had a higher rate than their 
existing product for the larger part of their existing mortgage. And theyd have had to pay an 
ERC of about £1,500 to exit this product.
However, interest rates increased during 2022 and the products available to Miss H and 
Mr B later in 2022 had higher rates. With hindsight, it might have been better for Miss H and 
Mr B to switch products in March 2022 despite the higher interest rate and the ERC. But 
Nationwide couldnt have told them that in March 2022 because it didnt know how interest 
rates would change in future. Nationwide could only advise Miss H and Mr B based on what 
it knew at the time. It told Miss H and Mr B they had the option to pay the ERC and switch 
products. Miss H and Mr B knew this was an option if they were concerned about interest 
rates going up. 
Miss H and Mr B told Nationwide their purchase would complete in June 2022. The purchase 
was delayed. Nationwide said they could port with a gap between the sale and purchase. 
Miss H and Mr B say if Nationwide had explained the implications of this theyd have acted 
differently and switched products.
Id expect Nationwide to provide correct information in response to Miss H and Mr Bs 
questions about porting. But I dont think I can fairly find that Nationwide should have tried to 
set out all possible implications of porting, especially as this would have been a non-advised 
call. And I think its unlikely it would have changed the outcome if it had done so. 
Nationwide allows customers to switch products without paying an ERC within three months 
of the date the product is due to expire. Miss H and Mr B sold their property and repaid the 
mortgage in mid-June 2022. This was before theyd have been able to switch products 
without paying an ERC. 
Miss H and Mr B couldnt switch products after theyd repaid their mortgage in June 2022. 
This was because their mortgage account was closed. Their purchase and new mortgage 
completed in mid-August 2022.
Where a product has been ported Nationwide doesnt allow switching until the first monthly 
payment had been made. Here, that was 6 September 2022. 
Where a product is ported and theres a gap between the sale and purchase, Nationwide 
adds this to the product term. This meant Miss H and Mr Bs products expired two months 
later than their original date. The product that applied to the larger part of their ported 
mortgage expired on 30 November 2022. So they could exit this product without paying an 
ERC from early September 2022.While Miss H and Mr B didnt know all this at the outset, I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably find theyd have acted differently if they had. They still wouldnt have been able 
to switch products between mid-June 2022 and 6 September 2022. And given that Miss H 
and Mr B didnt decide to pay the ERC and switch products in March 2022, Im not 
persuaded theyd have decided to do so before mid-June 2022. 
Miss H and Mr B say their hands were tied between June 2022 and September 2022. I dont 
think thats right. If they were happy to pay the ERC (or accept that it wouldnt be refunded) 
they could have asked Nationwide about changing the products in the mortgage offer or re-
applying with new products. The mortgage adviser told Miss H and Mr B towards the end of 
the March 2022 call that they could ask for changes to the mortgage offer, although there 
was no guarantee Nationwide would agree to issue a new offer with the change. 
So far as I can tell from the available evidence, when they became aware their purchase 
was delayed, Miss H and Mr B asked Nationwide if theyd still be able to port. Id expect 
Nationwide to give correct information in response to this question  which I think it did. I 
dont think its reasonable to say that Nationwide should have offered Miss H and Mr B 
advice about all the possible implications of this, or suggest they change products. If Miss H 
and Mr B wanted further or updated advice, theyd have needed to ask for an appointment 
with a mortgage adviser.
It must have been frustrating for Miss H and Mr B to keep being given a new reason why 
they couldnt yet switch products. Miss H says she was given inconsistent information about 
the expiry date of their products and whether this was extended as a result of the gap 
between their sale and purchase. Miss H and Mr B were worried about going onto 
Nationwides standard variable rate.
After porting Miss H and Mr B took out new products, with interest rates higher than their 
previous products. They asked for these to start when their previous products were originally 
due to expire. This meant they missed out on the benefit of the lower rates for two months.  
Nationwide paid £250 to Miss H and Mr B as an apology for their upset and confusion about 
the expiry date for their products and the delay in responding to their complaint. It also 
offered to cancel or adjust the start date for their new products. If they havent already done 
so, Miss H and Mr B will need to contact Nationwide if they want to do this. Before deciding 
they could consider whether to take advice as to whether this would be beneficial. 
My final decision
I think the offer made by Nationwide Building Society is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Its already paid £250. It should cancel or adjust the products Miss H and 
Mr B took out after porting, as it offered to do, if Miss H and Mr B confirm this is what they 
want to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman