DRN-4403196
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) refuses to refund money he 
lost to an investment scammer. 
Mr A is represented by a third party, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to all the submissions 
as coming from him alone in this decision. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise key 
events. 
Mr A received contact from an individual called Juliana (the scammer) in January 2022. The 
scammer persuaded Mr A that they had a mutual friend which he accepted. The scammer 
built a friendly rapport with Mr A over social media and introduced him to forex trading with a 
company Ill call K. The scammer advised Mr A that she invested on behalf of a lot of 
people and had a lot of inside information. Mr A asked the scammer questions and noted 
she had a large following on social media, so the investment appeared legitimate on the face 
of it  albeit he had little investment experience. Mr A decided to invest and opened a trading 
account with K, the scammer guided him on how to fund that account. 
In the beginning, Mr A was able to withdraw small sums which gave legitimacy to the 
investment.  He also opened a business trading account with the scammer to benefit his 
business. But the scammer pressured him to increase his deposits and he suffered huge 
losses. The scammer asked Mr A to increase his deposits so that he could recoup his 
losses, which he complied with. Around March 2022, a translator working with the scammers 
warned Mr A that hed been scammed and lost funds, Mr A tried to contact the scammer but 
did not receive any correspondence. 
Mr A sought legal advice before approaching Halifax for assistance. When he approached 
Halifax for assistance, he found the customer service he received to be poor. He made a 
data subject access request, which Halifax delayed in supplying and he subsequently 
complained to Halifax. 
Ive listed the payments disputed by Mr A below. These payments were made from Mr As 
Halifax current account to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange Ill call F, which was an 
account in his name. He purchased crypto with these funds and sent them to his trading 
account with K.
Transaction 
numberDate Payee Method of payment Amount Running total
1 11/01/2022 F Faster payment £100 £100
2 11/01/2022 F Faster Payment £3,388 £3,488
3 12/01/2022 F Faster Payment £10,400 £13,888
4 17/01/2022 F Faster Payment £21,000 £34,888
5 17/01/2022 F Faster Payment £4,000 £38,888
6 17/01/2022 F Faster Payment £5,000 £43,888
7 24/01/2022 F Faster Payment £25,000 £68,888
8 24/01/2022 F Faster Payment £60,000 £128,888
9 26/01/2022 F Faster Payment £6,900 £135,788
10 23/02/2022 F Faster Payment £20,000 £155,788
11 15/03/2022 F Faster Payment £17,700 £173,488
12 17/03/2022 F Faster Payment £15,600 £189,088
Mr A received a withdrawal of £100 on 13 January 2022 (paid to an external account). He 
also received a withdrawal of £797.46 on 15 February 2022 to his Halifax account, so the 
total amount hes claiming from Halifax is £188,190.54.
Halifax issued its final response on 20 January 2023 explaining that it wouldnt be refunding 
Mr A because he paid an account in his name which was legitimate. It explained hed need 
to dispute the transactions with F. It further noted it did all it could to try to protect him and 
spoke to him on multiple occasions but Mr A wasnt truthful in his conversations with it. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things. She found that Halifax ought to have done more 
in some of its interactions with Mr A when it blocked some of his payments. But she didnt 
feel that he was entirely honest in his interactions with Halifax, so she didnt think it could 
have reasonably prevented his loss, even if it had better interactions with him. Our 
Investigator provided copies of calls to Mr A. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said in summary 
that Halifaxs intervention didnt go far enough. For example, when Mr A said he was paying 
a solicitors firm, Halifax should have found this concerning. He said if Halifax had invited him 
into a branch, a face-to-face conversation would have likely unravelled the scam. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr A for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr A using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by Halifax. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The first question Ive considered is whether or not Im satisfied Mr A fell victim to a scam. 
Ive reviewed Mr As complaint submissions and correspondence with the scammer. Ive also 
noted that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a warning about K on 9 May 
2022. Based on this evidence, Im persuaded on balance that K was most likely operating a 
scam and Mr A was the victim of that scam. 
Now that Im satisfied Mr A fell victim to a scam, Ive considered whether any of the disputed 
payments were unusual or suspicious enough for Halifax to have reasonably intervened. 
Transactions 1 and 2
Like our Investigator, I reviewed Mr As account statements from December 2020. I dont 
think these payments were all that unusual when considering Mr As normal account activity. 
For example, he made payments of £5,000 dated 14 April 2021 to a trading company and a 
faster payment of £3,525 dated 21 June 2021. 
I therefore dont think Halifax missed an opportunity to intervene in relation to these 
payments. 
Transaction 3 onwards
I think transactions 3, 4 7 and 8 were unusual when considering the normal operation of Mr 
As account. I dont see that he made payments for more than £5,000 and certainly not large 
payments quite close together. I think these payments established an unusual pattern of 
spend, that I think Halifax ought reasonably to have been concerned that the operation of Mr 
As account had dramatically changed - enough to have reasonably paused the payments so 
it could speak with Mr A to check that all was well. 
By the time transactions 10 to 12 had happened, I think it would have been reasonable for 
Halifax to have assumed that F was now an established payee and it wouldnt have 
appeared all that unusual for Mr A to send large faster payments to this particular account. In 
other words, I think large payments to F would have appeared normal by February 2022 and 
March 2022. 
Halifax explained that Mr A was provided with Account at Risk (AAR) warnings prior to 
making payments 3, 4, 7, 9 and 10. 
Halifax also noted that payments 6, 8, 11 and 12 triggered its internal systems and it spoke 
with Mr A regarding his payments. 
So its clear Halifax also found that some of Mr As payments were unusual and 
uncharacteristic. 
As Halifax concluded some of Mr As payments were unusual and uncharacteristic (more 
than I would have considered to be unusual), Ill go on to consider whether its interactions 
with him went far enough, or whether I think it could have reasonably done more.
I dont think Halifaxs call with Mr A of 17 January 2022 was all that meaningful. It simply 
sought to confirm Mr As transaction was authorised and in my opinion, this was a missed 
opportunity to intervene given the amount of payments that had already been made to F on 
the same day. Halifax also spoke with Mr A on 24 January 2022. The adviser queried whether the previous 
payment of £25,000 was received and he confirmed it was. The adviser queried the payment 
he was attempting of £60,000. Halifax explained it couldnt verify the details were correct as 
the confirmation of payee didnt match. But Mr A confirmed the payment was received. The 
adviser read a script to Mr A about common types of scams. Mr A confirmed it was all fine. 
The adviser asked if it was a solicitors he was paying, Mr A said it was for goods and 
services. The adviser went on to ask what kind of goods and services Mr A was getting, he 
said one second, paused for a little while and said it was for barbeque related items. He 
said it was for business use. The adviser asked if anyone was listening to the conversation, 
he said no. The adviser asked if hes been asked to lie to the bank, he said no. A few more 
questions not pertaining to scams were asked and the adviser assisted Mr A with making the 
transaction. 
On 15 March 2022, Mr As payment to F was blocked and he had another conversation with 
Halifax. Mr A said he was paying a crypto wallet. Mr A was asked if hed carried out research 
in relation to crypto. The adviser asked if it was a one-off or whether hed done it for a while, 
Mr A said hed done it for a while. The adviser explained the bank were seeing a lot of 
scams relating to crypto. The adviser asked if anyone is helping him like a broker, he said it 
was only him, he set it up himself. The adviser asked if anyones asked Mr A to download 
anything so they can see what hes doing, he said no. The adviser asked where the money 
came from, he said he sold a car and he deposited it into his account himself. 
In another call on the same day, Halifax queried who Mr A was sending a payment to. He 
said it was a crypto app. He repeated that it was his account. Halifax explained that 
sometimes consumers think theyre speaking to traders but theyre speaking to scammers. 
Halifax asked if anyone had contacted him saying theyre an investor or broker. He said no. 
The adviser asked whether anyone had contacted him or asked him to lie about the purpose 
of his payments. Mr A said no. 
On 17 March 2022, Halifax called Mr A in relation to transaction 12. He explained the 
purpose of the payment was for an investment that was going into his own account. He was 
asked if he was purchasing crypto. He said yes. The adviser asked if he was doing crypto for 
long, he said yes. The adviser explained there is a current scam where customers are being 
contacted by a broker which is a scammer. The adviser asked if hes been asked to 
download any software, he said no. 
Whilst I dont think Halifax intervened in all the transactions that were unusual or out of 
character and could have done better in its early interaction with Mr A, I dont think this 
makes a difference to my conclusions. Having listened to the calls, Halifax did ask relevant 
questions to crypto scams and Mr A assured it that no one was assisting him, he was 
investing into his own account, he had sole access to his funds, hed not been asked to 
download any software and hed been investing for a while. I therefore am not persuaded 
that if Halifax had better interactions with Mr A earlier that it would have made a difference. I 
dont think Mr As answers would have been concerning to Halifax enough for it to have 
invited him into branch for a face-to-face conversation. Mr A wasnt truthful with Halifax and I 
see no reasonable reason for him not to have been. For example, having reviewed his 
communication with the scammer, I cant see that he was coached into being dishonest with 
Halifax prior to those interactions. And even if he had been, I think he would have continued 
to maintain his cover story even if the bank had intervened sooner. 
I recognise in one of the earlier calls that Mr A told Halifax he was purchasing barbecue 
equipment for a business. And the adviser didnt appear to be familiar with F even though its 
a well-known crypto exchange. Mr A thought this should have been a red flag but I dont 
necessarily agree. I accept the Halifax adviser ought to have reasonably been familiar with a 
popular crypto exchange. But the purchase and use of crypto is not all scam-related and consumers can use crypto to purchase genuine items. Whilst Mr A paused before he 
answered the question, it sounded like he was moving to a quieter location (as there was 
background noise prior to his answer), which I dont think was unusual, particularly as he 
was discussing the use of his funds. 
In other words, I am satisfied that even if Halifax had asked better probing questions to start 
with, or intervened in other transactions that were unusual, it probably would have made no 
difference to Mr A. During multiple calls Ive listened to, Halifax did ask probing questions, 
explained common crypto scams and provided sufficient warnings to Mr A. I dont think it 
could have said anything differently to obtain the true purpose of Mr As payments, its clear 
this isnt something he wanted to disclose to Halifax. Therefore, any failings by Halifax were 
(in my opinion) not the dominant, effective cause of his losses; they were just part of the 
background history or occasion that led up to them.
In light of my conclusions above on whether earlier interventions would have made a 
difference (as Ive concluded they wouldnt have), it is unnecessary for me to go on to 
consider whether Mr A himself was partly to blame for what happened (contributory 
negligence). Indeed, I have already concluded that he was responsible for his own 
investment decisions, and that such choices were the proximate cause of his losses.
In relation to recovery of the funds, as Mr A paid an account in his own name with F and sent 
the crypto he purchased from that account to K. I dont think Halifax would have had any 
reasonable prospect of success had it attempted to recover his funds. If Mr A had any funds 
available in his account with F, these would have been accessible by him. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr As losses, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman