DRN-1957824
 
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that she had to pay a second excess, and an additional payment direct to 
a contractor, when making a claim against her Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) 
home insurance policy.
Mrs G is a vulnerable complainant and is being represented in this complaint by her son-in-
law Mr A. But for ease of reference, Ill refer to them both as Mrs G within my decision.
What happened
Mrs G has her home insurance with L&G. The policy includes Home Emergency Cover. Mrs 
G made a claim on the policy in June 2019 because of a leak in a water pipe. L&G sent out a 
contractor to repair the leak and Mrs G paid the £200 policy excess. L&G didnt record any 
information about the location or cause of the leak.
In August 2019 Mrs G again contacted L&G about a water leak. The contractor went out, but 
said the issue was to do with a faulty water meter. L&G logged this as part of the initial claim 
and Mrs G arranged to have her water meter replaced.
In November 2019 Mrs G contacted L&G to tell them she still had a water leak. The 
contractor went out and told Mrs G this was a new claim and the leak wasnt related to the 
repair they did in June 2019. The contractor told Mrs G to make a new claim against her 
policy with L&G, and she did so. She was then charged another £200 excess and she had to 
pay the contractor a £60 pre-authorisation payment for the repair work they did. L&G didnt 
record any information about the cause or location of this leak.
Mrs G has complained that she was charged a second £200 excess, and the £60 pre-
authorisation payment, when the leak was in the same location every time. She thinks this 
shouldve been dealt with as a single claim.
Our investigator agreed with Mrs G. She said that the photographs provided are consistent 
with the leak being in the same location, and L&G havent been able to provide anything to 
show this wasnt the case. The investigator also thought the second leak couldnt be related 
to the replacement water meter (which is what the contractor said) because the water meter 
was in a different location. And she didnt think L&Gs policy allowed them to charge a £60 
pre-authorisation payment.
So the investigator recommended that L&G refund Mrs G the £200 second excess and the 
£60 pre-authorisation payment, with interest. She also recommended that L&G pay Mrs G 
an additional £50 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
L&G didnt agree with the investigator, and they thought that the letters the contractor sent 
Mrs G made it clear what was and wasnt covered under her policy; and under what 
circumstances the pre-authorisation payment needed to be paid. And L&G have sent in a 
diagram prepared by the contractor, which shows that the leaks repaired in June 2019 and November 2019 were in completely different locations  the June leak at the back of Mrs Gs 
property, and the November leak at the front. So theyve asked for an ombudsman to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Theres no dispute that the contractor visited Mrs Gs property on three occasions because 
of water leaks, or that Mrs G was covered for this under her insurance policy with L&G. What 
I need to consider is whether this should have been treated as a single claim, with one 
excess; or multiple claims, with multiple excess payments.
L&G have provided a diagram from the contractor which shows the work done on Mrs Gs 
property. This shows that work was done in two distinctly different areas. The diagram 
shows an area to the rear of Mrs Gs property which is marked as Pit (Leak 1 repaired June 
2019). It also shows an area at the front of Mrs Gs property which is marked as Leak 2 
repaired November 2019. I agree these locations are a distance apart. And if there were 
leaks in these two locations at different times it could indicate two different issues, not one.
The contractor has said that, during the initial visit to Mrs Gs property on 14 June 2019, they 
fixed a leak that was underneath the kitchen at the back of the house. Theyve also said 
that, to repair this leak, a new point of entry was installed from outside to resolve the leak.  
The contractor has also said that during the second visit, they noted the problem was with 
the water meter, and wasnt related to the first repair. The water meter wasnt located within 
the boundaries of Mrs Gs property. And this was replaced by Mrs Gs water supplier after 
the leak was reported in August 2019. 
The contractor has also said that, during the third visit, they repaired the leak to the front of 
Mrs Gs property. Theyve also said that the leak was from new fixings of a type they didnt 
use. So these fixings must have been put there by the water company when they replaced 
the water meter. But Mrs G has said that, because the water meter was in the street, the 
water company didnt do any work on her property.
Ive looked at the photos supplied by both parties. L&G have provided photos of the repair to 
the front of Mrs Gs property  an inspection pit, a leaking pipe in the pit, and the new 
concrete repairs to the pit after the work has been completed. These also show the access 
cover to the water meter, which is on the pavement outside Mrs Gs property. L&G havent 
been able to provide any photos of the repair to the rear of Mrs Gs property.
Mrs G has sent in photos which show the area where the contractors diagram says the 
initial leak was repaired. This area has an old concrete covering and theres no evidence this 
has been disturbed - theres nothing to show that a pit has been dug and refilled with new 
concrete. The email accompanying the contractors diagram says a new point of entry was 
installed from outside to resolve the leak. Again, the photographs dont support this.
But Mrs Gs photographs show an area of new concrete at the front of her property. This is 
consistent with an inspection pit having been dug and refilled. Its in the same location as the 
work showing in L&Gs photos and is where the contractors diagram shows the second leak 
was repaired.Based on the photographic evidence Ive seen, all the repairs to Mrs Gs property took place 
in the same location, at the front of Mrs Gs property but not where the water meter was. Ive 
seen nothing to show me there were any repairs at the rear of Mrs Gs property. 
So Im satisfied its more likely than not that the second leak, caused by the faulty fixings, 
was related to the first leak. And those faulty fixings were more likely than not put in by the 
contractor when fixing the first leak, and not by the water company when replacing the water 
meter some distance away.
So, this would mean all the repairs relate to the same claim, not to two different claims. And 
Mrs G shouldnt have to pay the second excess, or the pre-authorisation payment relating to 
the work that was carried out in November 2019.
Putting things right
L&G should do the following:
Refund Mrs G the £200 second excess payment she paid, plus 8% annual simple 
interest from the date this was paid to the date of refund.
Refund Mrs G the £60 pre-authorisation payment she paid, plus 8% annual simple 
interest from the date this was paid to the date of refund.
Pay Mrs G an additional £50 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes been 
caused by this situation.
Amend their records to show Mrs G made only made one claim for a water leak 
against her home insurance policy, not two.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Legal & General Insurance 
Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman