DRN-3968265
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost after she fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In or around March 2022 Miss G was looking to buy a phone. Shes said after messaging a 
number of people, to make enquiries about phones that shed seen for sale, she saw one 
that she was interested in buying on a well-known social media online marketplace. She 
contacted the seller, by way of messages, and asked if the item was still available. Miss G 
has said that she exchanged messages with the seller and had a number of conversations 
with them on the phone. Shes told us that after a price was agreed for the phone, the seller 
called her back to ask if she was interested in also buying some earphones, which she was, 
so a price was agreed for these too.
Due to the distance between Miss G and the seller, she wasnt able to view the item. But she 
asked the seller to ensure that the item would be sent by tracked post and offered to pay 
more to the seller, if needed, for this. With the seller confirming to her that all items are sent 
tracked next day delivery and that the tracking information would be sent to Miss G.
Miss G has said she believed the seller to be genuine as she could see from their social 
media page that theyd sold, and had for sale, a number of other items and she didnt see 
anything that caused her concern. She also said the seller had sounded genuine when she 
had spoken to him on the phone. Shes told us she reviewed the sellers feedback and 
alongside this, Miss G wasnt concerned by the price of the item, shes said when she was 
looking for phones, shed seen other phones for sale at about the same price.
Believing everything to be genuine, on 31 March 2022, Miss G went ahead and made a 
payment for £590 to the bank details provided by the seller. But after making the payment, 
she became concerned, when she didnt receive any tracking information and the items 
never arrived. Unknown to her at the time she had been communicating with a fraudster and 
had sent her money to an account the fraudster controlled.
Miss G raised the matter with Monzo. It has committed to follow the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions 
applies in this case.
Monzo issued its final response to Miss G on 8 April 2022, not upholding her complaint. In 
summary it said it didnt feel Miss G had taken enough steps to check who she was paying 
and what for and that she didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the sale was genuine. 
It added that clear guidance, around payments, was available on the online marketplace, 
and Miss G hadnt followed this. In particular it said that guidance advises people not to 
transfer money directly into a sellers bank account.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Miss G then brought her complaint to this service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld and that 
Monzo should refund Miss G the money she lost, along with interest. In summary, our 
Investigator didnt think Monzo had established that it shouldnt reimburse Miss G on the 
basis that she didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a legitimate 
payment.
Monzo didnt agree with our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded Miss G the money 
she lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case.
- In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss G  
lost.
- The money was taken from Miss G s current account. It is not clear how Miss G  
would have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Monzo should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple 
per year, from the date Monzo decided not to refund Miss G under the CRM Code to 
the date of payment.
Did Miss G have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Ive carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Miss G  had a reasonable 
basis for believing the purchase was genuine. Weighing everything up, I dont think it would 
have been evident to Miss G that there was a risk with this purchase, I say that because;
- Miss G saw the item she was interested in on a well-known social media platforms 
marketplace. She engaged with the seller through a number of messages and also 
spoke with them on the phone on a number of occasions. From reviewing these 
messages, I dont consider the seller was applying any pressure (which can often be 
the indicator of a scam).
- I also dont think the price the items were being sold for could be considered as too 
good to be true, whereby Miss G should reasonably have had doubts about the 
legitimacy of the item or the seller. Our Investigator, when reviewing the case, was 
able to identify a number of items priced similarly. While I can see the price Miss G 
agreed with the seller, was on the lower side of those examples, Im not persuaded 
that it could be considered so outlandishly low as to have caused her concern.
- Monzo commented that this was not a sophisticated scam  that an item was paid for 
without having seen it in person and that Miss G sent the money, to a stranger on social media, using a payment method that didnt offer any buyer protection. Ive 
thought about this, and in doing so Im mindful as to what it is realistic to have 
expected Miss G to do when she was making the payment. Due to the distance 
between Miss G and the seller, I dont think it unreasonable that she hadnt seen the 
item in person. I also dont think it is so uncommon for people buying items across a 
marketplace such as this, to not always see an item in person before doing so. And I 
also dont think it follows that just because Miss G asked for the item to be posted, it 
makes her more liable for this loss. Indeed, I think in asking for tracked postage and 
offering to pay more to secure that, demonstrates that Miss G wasnt proceeding 
without any care and diligence.
- Monzo argue that Miss G should have followed the marketplaces advice around the 
method of payment she used. Firstly, I dont think Monzo can rely on the 
marketplaces guidance. This is because, from what Ive seen the information about 
payment is contained amongst other information and required several clicks to see 
the section relating to payments. I dont think its practical or proportionate to have 
expected Miss G to have read the help guide in its entirety before proceeding to 
make the payment. Miss G has said she prefers to make payment by bank transfer 
as it provides her with evidence that a payment has been made, I dont think this is 
an unreasonable position to take, albeit I agree there are other methods of payment 
available that may have provided more protection. But when coupled with Miss G not 
even holding an account, with the payment platform Monzo suggested she should 
have used, it is understandable why she didnt make a payment using this method.
- Miss G has said the account name and details she was provided with matched, 
which further reassured her that things were as they seemed. However, I havent 
placed much weight on this as the beneficiary account (the account to which the 
money was sent), didnt support Confirmation of Payee (COP), so it is unclear how 
Miss G would have been aware that the bank account details and name matched. 
That said, Miss G didnt get a COP no match when making the payment and so I 
dont think there would have been any red flag here that ought to have caused her to 
have pause for thought.
- Miss G took the time to check the sellers profile and was further convinced this was 
genuine. This was because she saw other items had been sold and there were other 
items for sale and she didnt see anything that gave her any cause for concern.
People dont want or expect to be scammed and I think overall Miss G took reasonable, 
appropriate and proportionate steps when she was making this payment for £590. I dont 
consider she had any reason to think the seller would not keep to their side of that bargain. 
The fact that the bank can think of additional things Miss G could have done does not mean 
that she did not do enough. Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that Monzo has 
shown that Miss G lacked a reasonable basis of belief for making the payment for £590.
For completeness, I also dont think the warnings Monzo presented Miss G with would be 
considered as effective under the CRM Code as they werent specific to the particular scam 
Miss G fell victim to. However having said that, considering the relatively low value of the 
payment Miss G was making (and therefore a lesser indication that Miss G may be a risk of 
fraud), I dont consider there was a requirement on Monzos part for an effective warning to 
be provided.Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Monzo Bank Ltd should now;
- Refund Miss G the £590 she lost as a result of this scam
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo 
Bank Ltd originally declined Miss G s claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman