DRN-1672546
The complaint
Ms M complains about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC handled a chargeback 
request. 
What happened
In August 2019 Ms M contacted Barclays about a card payment which had been wrongly 
taken from her account. She was unhappy with the way in which the bank said it would deal 
with the matter. It said it would send a declaration by post, which Ms M would have to 
complete and return. This contrasted with the process adopted by another bank with which 
Ms Ms husband had a similar issue. 
Ms M made several telephone calls to Barclays, including the first call to raise the 
chargeback and a final call to complain about how the issue had been handled. Ms M didnt 
think the bank handled some of the calls well. She says the advisers were rude and calls 
were terminated. Barclays initially offered her £50 in recognition of that, but on review 
decided to offer a further £200. 
The transaction which had caused Ms M to contact the bank in the first place was refunded 
the following day. It seems that refund was made by the merchant concerned, rather than as 
a result of the chargeback process.
Ms M remained dissatisfied with the banks actions and referred the case to this service, 
where one of our investigators considered it. The investigator, having listened to the 
telephone calls, took the view that the compensation Barclays had offered was fair. She 
noted that any inconvenience had been relatively short-term and that the bank had resolved 
the issue quickly. Ms M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note first of all that the underlying issue  the disputed payment to the merchant  was 
resolved the following day. Ms M has said that wasnt because of anything the bank did, and 
I agree. But, since the merchant made a refund, there was nothing more that Barclays could 
do; the merchant would simply have responded to the chargeback request by saying it had 
already made a refund. 
Ms Ms initial dissatisfaction appears to stem from the fact that Barclays required her to 
complete a paper form before it would make a chargeback request. That may not have been 
the same process as that used by other banks, but its not for me to tell Barclays what 
procedures it should adopt. Ive no reason to think Ms M couldnt have completed the form 
and returned it, had that been necessary. 
I understand that Ms M was unhappy with the way the telephone calls went, and that she 
believes Barclays was at fault. I note too that Barclays has apologised. However, I share the 
view that the banks offer of compensation is a fair one in all the circumstances. It falls within 
the range of awards that this service would usually make in similar cases and I dont believe 
I should make a higher award. I simply leave it to Ms M to decide whether, on reflection, 
shes prepared to settle her complaint on that basis.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything more to resolve 
Ms Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman