DRN-3918979
The complaint
Mrs B complains about advice she received from McHardy Financial Limited (MFL) in 1999 
when taking out a whole of life policy.
Mrs B is using a family representative to bring this complaint. For ease I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Mrs B.  
What happened
In 1999 Mrs B took out a reviewable whole of life policy after speaking with MFL.
In early 2022 Mrs B complained to MFL saying amongst other things that the policy didnt 
provide the security she needed and placed her investment at risk. The complaint came 
about because the premiums had increased significantly over the years and had become 
unaffordable. 
MFL didnt uphold the complaint saying Mrs B had been made aware the premiums were 
expected to rise. And that significant increases in the premiums over the years was due to 
increases in the sum assured that Mrs B had instigated. MFL also said that Mrs B had been 
made aware of the investment risk and that the maximum cover option had been selected as 
a conventional plan wouldve been considerably more expensive.   
Mrs B remained unhappy so brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. Considering the information from the time of the 
sale they didnt uphold the complaint saying the policy hadnt been mis-sold. They thought 
the policy met Mrs Bs needs and objectives at the time and that clear information had been 
provided.
Mrs B disagreed saying the evidence hadnt been fully considered including how the rises in 
premiums effectively made the policy run out and that the type of fund wasnt fully 
explained. Our Investigator considered the comments and explained that the policy was 
subject review and didnt run out. Mrs B still felt the policy had been mis-sold so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has provided a lot of information about her complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want assure Mrs B that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some 
things which reflects the informal nature of our service and no discourtesy is intended. 
The sale took place over 20 years ago in 1999 so its no surprise there isnt a full set of 
documentation from that time. Where the information about what happened is incomplete, 
unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance 
of probabilities about what I think is most likely to have happened.
Recommendation letters from the time show that Mrs Bs previous life insurance had come 
to an end so she was looking for a replacement that wouldnt run out. Mrs B was looking for 
some flexibility and the build up of a capital sum wasnt a priority at that time. It also needed 
to be an affordable policy that would leave a lump sum for her daughters. 
The recommended policy met those objectives and started with a sum assured of £200,000 
and monthly premium of £50. The documentation also shows that the type of fund within the 
policy was the choice of Mrs B. 
When providing advice the adviser compared at least eight different policy quotes from 
different providers. It seems most likely this policy was chosen due to affordability. 
Considering all the information from the time Im satisfied the recommendation was suitable 
and met the needs of Mrs B. Also I think the documentation from the time is clear about how 
the policy works. The reviewable nature of the product is made clear as well that its likely 
premiums will increase with age.
It seems this complaint primarily came about due to the continued increase in premiums 
over the years which have become unaffordable. Any rise in premiums over the years due to 
policy reviews is a matter for the product provider so I wont be discussing that here. 
But I think its important to say that a contributing factor to rises in premiums has been 
increases in the sum assured. The policy has an option to increase the sum assured, which 
Mrs B has actively agreed to. In 1999 the sum assured was £200,000 with a monthly 
premium of £50. By 2019 the sum assured had risen to over £480,000 with a premium of 
around £379. With such a large increase in the sum assured its no surprise there was also a 
large rise in premiums. 
Because of the large increase in the sum assured its hard to say how much an effect the 
risk element of the underlying fund had on the policy. But from what Ive seen Im not 
persuaded the type of investment fund was unsuitable. 
Mrs B has said that the name of this type of whole of life policy is misleading as it is 
constructed like a series of term policies that run out each ten years at review, which is not 
what she wanted. Whole of life policies dont run out like a term policy but they are subject 
to periodical reviews. These are two very different things. Providing premiums are paid a 
whole of life policy will last until the policy holders death. However the premiums and sum 
assured might change due to reviews. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the advice given was 
suitable and that MFL has treated Mrs B fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman