DRN-2851126
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc unfairly applied a default to his account.
What happened
Mr R entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander in November 2014. He made 
his repayments throughout the term of the agreement on time and was due to make the 
balloon payment in December 2018. When this payment was called for it was rejected. 
Santander sent Mr R notification of the missed payment however he was overseas at the 
time.
Mr R has explained that he was due to travel back from overseas with his wife in early 
January 2019, but his wife was taken seriously ill and hospitalised on their trip. This meant 
his return to the UK had to be delayed and he didnt receive the information from Santander 
about the missed payment. Mr R returned to the UK for a few days in February 2019 and 
tried to make the payment but says he was limited to only paying £10,000 even though he 
had the funds to pay the whole amount. He then made the final payment in April 2019 but by 
this time a default had been recorded on his credit file.
Mr R says that he has a strong credit history and that this default is having a major impact on 
his ability to source credit.
Santander says that it notified Mr R of the missed payment and that there was no reason 
why he couldnt have paid the full amount on the call in February 2019. As the full payment 
wasnt made it tried to contact Mr R and a further default notice was issued. As contact 
couldnt be made the default was applied. Although Mr R made the full payment in April 
2019, this was after the default had been applied and Santander says that the default had 
been applied correctly.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said that he thought Mr R would have made the 
full payment on the call in February 2019 had he known he could do this.
Santander didnt accept our investigators view. It said the notes from the February call 
showed Mr R asked to split the payment and was aware of the need to pay the remaining 
balance by 20 February, but he didnt do this until April.
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr R entered a conditional sale agreement with Santander in November 2014 and 
made the monthly repayments for the term of the agreement without any issues. The 
balloon payment of £26,951 was due in December 2018. While I accepted that Mr R 
should have been aware of this payment and ensured the funds were available, it 
appeared that this was overlooked.
Mr R was due to return from overseas on 2 January 2019, but his wife fell seriously ill 
on their trip and was in hospital meaning they couldnt return as planned. Had Mr R 
returned on 2 January, I had no reason to believe, based on his previous payment 
behaviour and subsequent actions that he wouldnt have made the payment at that 
time. This would have been a few days late, but it wouldnt have resulted in a default.
Mr Rs wife was seriously ill and I noted how stressful this time would have been for 
Mr R and understood how he may have missed the fact his payment hadnt been 
made. Santander tried to contact him, and I found it took reasonable steps to make 
Mr R aware of the issue and the need to get in touch.
When Mr R returned to the UK for a few days in February 2019 before returning to 
his wife, he contacted Santander. I thought this showed that the relationship between 
Mr R and Santander hadnt broken down and that Mr R had the intention of making 
the outstanding payment. The call recording wasnt available and conflicting 
information was provided about what was discussed. While I noted the comment Mr 
R made about the information provided on this call, and that he had the funds 
available, I also noted Santanders call notes. On balance, I thought it more likely 
than not that Mr R chose to pay £10,000 on 15 February and then intended to make 
the remaining payment before leaving.
Mr R said that he explained on the call his situation however the call notes just noted 
that he has been overseas. Had Mr R told Santander about his situation I would have 
expected it to have taken this into account in its dealing with him. However, as I didnt 
have any further details about this, I didnt find I could say Santander did anything 
wrong by accepting that payment would be made at that time.
The final payment wasnt made in February Santander issued a further default notice. 
Mr R said that he didnt receive the default notices, but these were recorded in 
Santanders system notes and copies have been provided. Even without receiving 
the default notices, I accepted that Mr R was aware of the outstanding payment given 
the call in February.
Santander tried to contact Mr R. As Mr R was overseas at the time and contact 
wasnt successful he may not have realised the seriousness of the situation. Mr R 
returned to the UK in April 2019 and made the final payment that month. I thought 
this showed that Mr R always had the intention to pay but his extremely difficult 
personal situation at the time meant this was delayed. 
The final payment was made within four months of it falling due and Mr R had made 
a substantial payment in February. I thought this suggested that the relationship 
hadnt broken down although I noted Mr R didnt return the contact after the final 
payment wasnt made in February.
I thought that Santander took the steps we would require in trying to contact Mr R 
about the missed payment and I understood why it took the decision to issue default 
notices and then apply the default. However, I didnt think a default being recorded 
was a fair outcome. This was because Mr R had a strong payment history with 
Santander, and I believed he always intended to make the final payment. 
Circumstances beyond his control meant he was out of the country unexpectedly and 
so didnt receive the default notices and given the nature of his situation I understood 
why he wasnt fully focussed on this issue. I thought his actions when he returned 
and the evidence showing he had the funds available, showed he was able and 
always intended to make the repayment. Mr Rs credit file supported his comments that he pays his credit commitments on time. Therefore, I didnt think a default 
recorded given the circumstances that faced Mr R was fair.
I thought the fair outcome was for the default to be removed from Mr Rs credit file.
Santander provided copies of the default notices that it had issued in response to my 
request, but no other new information was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider each case based on its individual merits. While I take relevant rules and 
regulations into account, my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given 
the unique circumstances of the complaint.
Santander is required to provide an accurate reflection of a consumers account to the credit 
reference agencies. When considering cases such as this I not only consider the accuracy of 
the information but also whether recording the information is fair. Credit reference agencies 
are used by credit providers to get a picture of how a person manages their credit. I have 
considered whether a default being applied to Mr Rs credit file was a reasonable response 
to the situation with his balloon payment and gave an accurate reflection of how he managed 
his account.
Defaults are issued when a consumer fails to meet their financial obligations. These can be 
applied following a breakdown in the relationship between the consumer and the finance 
provider, but this isnt necessarily the case. Defaults are generally applied when arrears 
have reached an unacceptable level, often when arrears are between three and six months. 
Mr R entered a conditional sale agreement with Santander in November 2014 and made the 
monthly repayments for the term of the agreement without any issues. The balloon payment 
of £26,951 was due in December 2018. The payment request made in December 2018 was 
rejected. Up to this point there were no issues with the relationship between Mr R and Mr Rs 
history of payments didnt raise concerns about his ability to make the final balloon payment.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think Santander took reasonable steps to contact 
Mr R about the missed payment and I understood why it took the decision to issue default 
notices and then apply the default. However, in this case, I dont think a default being 
recorded on Mr Rs credit file is a fair outcome. Mr R had a strong payment history with 
Santander, and I believe he always intended to make the final payment. Circumstances 
beyond his control meant this didnt happen until four months after the due date and he 
didnt receive the correspondence that was sent to him. Mr Rs actions when he returned to 
the UK and the evidence showing he had the funds available, I think supports my view that 
he was able and always intended to make the payment and his credit file shows he pays his 
credit commitments on time. Therefore, I dont think a default being recorded given the 
circumstances that Mr R faced is fair.
Given the unique circumstances of this case, I find the fair outcome is for the default to be 
removed from Mr Rs credit file.Putting things right
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should remove the default regarding the balloon payment 
from Mr Rs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman