DRN-3178190
The complaint
Mr F complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly. Hes represented in his 
complaint by a claims management company, but for ease, Ill refer only to Mr F.
What happened
Mr F has had several loans with TFS dating back to at least 2012. Loans hes aware of (and 
TFS has provided evidence of) are:
Date Amount Term Repayments Purpose
Loan 1 21 Aug 2012 £5,000 4 years £228.46 Furniture and 
appliances
Loan 2 26 Dec 2013 £6,000 5 years £223.96 Christmas
Loan 3 27 July 2015 £7,500 5 years £279.25 Holiday
We know there was at least one earlier loan because part of Loan 1 was used to repay it, but 
as neither party has any details of it, I cant reasonably consider it. Mr F says the loans were 
lent to him irresponsibly as he couldnt afford the repayments.
TFS looked into his complaint. It only addressed Loan 3 in its final response letter and 
outlined the checks it had carried out in its assessment which it said were reasonable and 
proportionate. It said based on its calculations, Mr F had a monthly disposable income of 
over £740 so it felt the loan was affordable for him. 
Mr F didnt agree with TFS so he referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators 
looked into it. As a first step, our investigator agreed with both TFS and Mr F that hed look 
at all three loans rather than just Loan 3, and then went on to do so. He said he felt TFS 
should have done more to check Mr F would be able to repay each loan sustainably and 
asked TFS to put matters right.
Mr F agreed with our investigator, but TFS didnt. It said (in summary):
It agrees Mr F had a bad credit history, but this was some time before his application.
Loans 2 and 3 were treated as new applications  TFS doesnt offer top up loans.
Income and expenditure details showed the loans were affordable for Mr F and his 
income increased each time.
As there was no agreement, Mr Fs complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  including 
the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered this 
approach when deciding this complaint.
Its not about TFS assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the 
impact of the loan repayments on him. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a third party 
and the potential for TFS to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr F doesnt alter the obligation.
There is no set list of checks that TFS had to do, but it could take into account several 
different things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly 
repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Loan 1
TFS obtained a payslip from Mr F and had a conversation with him about his expenditure. It 
obtained his permission to conduct a search of his credit file. It was satisfied with the 
information it obtained and felt the loan was affordable for Mr F. I can understand why TFS 
felt it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. But its not just about carrying 
out the checks  TFS needs to consider the information is receives in the process. Im not 
persuaded TFS gave enough consideration to it in this instance. Let me explain why. 
When Mr F applied for Loan 1 in August 2012, he already had a loan with TFS. 
Unfortunately, neither Mr F nor TFS have details of the earlier loan possibly due to the time 
elapsed. But we do have a number of phone calls regarding the application for Loan 1 and 
his circumstances at the time, together with some evidence regarding his income and 
expenditure. We dont have a copy of the credit file check carried out at the time, although 
we do have one for Loan 2 which shows most of the detail TFS will have seen when 
assessing Loan 1.
During the application call for Loan 1, Mr F says hed moved to his current property  a 
privately rented home  from his previous mortgaged home in December 2011. He said he 
had two dependents. He explained that he needed the further money for appliances 
following the move.
Ive not received any call records where Mr Fs income and expenditure was discussed 
(again possibly due to the time elapsed), but Ive no reason to think it wasnt. I do have a 
copy of what appears to be an income and expenditure statement for this loan. This shows 
his only expenditure as his rent and payments to other creditors totalling around £1,300, an 
income of almost £1,850 which leaves a monthly disposable income of approximately £550.
But this budget makes no allowances for other items such as food, travel, utility and phone 
bills or payments for his dependents. I cant see that these items were discussed at all, so I 
dont think that a monthly disposable income of £550 is accurate in the circumstances.
Ive gone on to look at what Mr Fs credit file is likely to have been showing at the time. It 
shows that he had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) of just over £9,500 registered in 
September 2008  some time before this application. More recently, hed been in default on 
his mortgage at his previous address in August 2011, and had several other defaults or 
accounts showing as in arrears with companies such as payday loans, communications and 
utility suppliers  some within a few months prior to Mr Fs application for Loan 1. At the 
time, Mr F had in the region of £14,000 of unsatisfied defaulted debt.
Mr F was asking for extra funds to buy appliances. While I acknowledge his outgoings 
werent increasing (TFS had been able to match the loan payment for his previous loan with 
this one), he was increasing the term and his overall level of indebtedness. 
I think TFS tried to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks, but I dont think it gave 
enough thought to the information it received as a result. Mr F had failed to make payments on some priority debts in the last year, such as his mortgage and utility suppliers. He had 
payday loans which were in default too. So it seems clear to me that Mr F was struggling to 
maintain the commitments he had, so Im not persuaded it was responsible to increase his 
indebtedness both in terms of the amount and length of borrowing. It follows that I dont think 
TFS reached a fair decision by agreeing to lend to Mr F. 
Loan 2
The process for Loan 2 followed a similar course, although by then, Mr F had around 
£20,000 of defaulted accounts. Two further CCJs had been registered against him totalling 
over £2,000. Hed been late with repayments to Loan 1 on at least three occasions in 16 
months hed had it.
Ive listened carefully to several call recordings regarding this loan. When he first contacted 
TFS to see if hed be able to take a further loan, he said he was responding to an email from 
it suggesting he could borrow more money. He said he was looking to borrow £1,500 more, 
but TFS said the maximum it could agree to was £1,300. Mr F was happy to proceed on that 
basis. The call handler asked a number of questions to set up the application. He was asked 
if Mr F had any dependants living with him to which he replied, not living with me no. Ive 
heard no discussion about whether he paid anything in the form of maintenance for them.
Mr F was asked what his plans were for the extra money he was borrowing. His response 
was err, home improvements I guess. Be nice to have some extra cash over Christmas. So 
it seems he didnt have firm plans for the money, but was again increasing his indebtedness 
and the period of the loan from four years to five.
In the 16 months between applications for Loans 1 and 2, Mr Fs situation appears to have 
worsened. As Ive said, he had two further CCJs and a number of accounts which had 
defaulted in that time. I think it should have been evident to TFS that Mr F was struggling to 
meet his current commitments and in all likelihood was experiencing financial difficulties. I 
dont think TFS reached a fair decision to lend to Mr F.
Loan 3
The application process for Loan 3 was similar to Loans 1 and 2. In the 18 months since 
Loan 2 had been drawn, a further CCJ for just over £900 had been recorded. He had new 
defaulted accounts for electricity and gas accounts. A year before this application, hed taken 
another loan with a different provider to which he was paying £197 a month.
During the application call, Mr F was asked by TFS if he had any adverse credit at all. So 
thats any kind of missed payments on credit cards, loans, store cards that kind of thing?. At 
first Mr F said no, and then corrected himself to say he did have some credit, but theres 
things set up with them  you know management plans etc. The call handler said, thats 
fine and moved on.
Ive listened to the conversation Mr F had with TFS regarding his income and expenditure. It 
was agreed his income was by then £2,000 per month and he paid rent of around £400 to a 
family member. His new loan of £197 per month was acknowledged along with Loan 2 which 
was to be repaid with this loan. It was confirmed that Mr F had no credit cards, mail order or 
catalogues and he was asked if he made any payments to a debt management plan which 
Mr F confirmed he didnt. In fact, other than an estimate of £150 monthly for food and 
housekeeping, he had little in the way of fixed expenditure. 
TFS calculated he had around £740 per month disposable income but hadnt made any 
allowance for the management plans Mr F had mentioned. Again, theres doubt about the accuracy of this figure.
Mr F was looking to borrow further money once again  this time approximately £2,000 over 
a five-year period for a holiday. Mr Fs situation appeared to have stabilised a little in 18 
months since Loan 2 had been agreed - the defaults registered in the meantime had been 
placed on his credit file fairly soon after Loan 2. But I am concerned that the repayments and 
Mr Fs overall indebtedness were once again increasing. He was taking the loan over the 
maximum term allowed, having reduced the capital of his previous loan by around only £350. 
Having taken a loan with another provider around a year before this one, he had no track 
record of the ability to manage his finances without a large reliance on credit. Furthermore, 
despite telling TFS he had management plans with several creditors with whom he was in 
default, no allowance was made in his budget for them.
Since April 2014, the rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). At the time TFS 
agreed this loan, CONC 5.3.1 4(b) said it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer. Ive seen no evidence that TFS asked further questions to satisfy 
itself that Mr F would be able to sustainably repay the loan before agreeing to lend.
In view of the concerns Ive outlined, Im not satisfied TFS asked enough questions (or 
listened carefully enough to the answers it had been given) to obtain a full understanding of 
Mr Fs financial position. It follows that I dont think the checks it carried out were reasonable 
and proportionate in the circumstances.
Had TFS looked more closely at Mr Fs finances  and even his relationship with it - it would 
have seen that there was a pattern of refinancing and increasing indebtedness over time. Its 
examination of his income and expenditure didnt factor in any repayments to his existing 
creditors bar one, despite his assertion that he was in management plans with them, and he 
had numerous outstanding defaulted accounts and three CCJs. 
In my view, increasing his indebtedness further risked placing Mr F into further financial 
problems given the amounts of credit outstanding elsewhere which wasnt being repaid. I 
dont think TFS reached a fair decision to lend to Mr F.
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think TFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr F in some other way. But I do think it should have refused to lend to Mr F, so I am 
upholding his complaint about these loans.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. In this case, that would mean putting Mr F in the 
position he would be in now if he hadnt been given the loans. But Mr F was given the loans, 
used the money so its right that he should pay back what hes spent. 
So, I think TFS should:
Calculate the total amount Mr F received from TFS and deduct from that figure the 
repayments hes made to each loan. 
oIf this results in Mr F having repaid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be added to any overpayments from the date they were made until the date of 
settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mr F to pay, TFS should let 
him know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable payment 
plan with him. I remind TFS of its obligation to treat customers fairly. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Fs credit file regarding each loan. 
* If TFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that TFS Loans Limited should settle this complaint as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman