DRN-3641557
The complaint
Mr O, as the director of a business which Ill call C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed 
to act promptly when notified about a payment of £16,750 that hed been tricked into making 
to one of its customers accounts.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide a brief overview of the relevant events below. 
On 10 May 2019, Mr O sent a payment of £16,750 from Cs bank account with B to a 
third-party account held with HSBC. The payment was to settle an invoice for some building 
work. Mr O was unaware at the time that the email hed received asking for payment had 
been intercepted and the account details changed. So the money credited an unknown 
third-party account, rather than the builders as hed intended. When Mr O realised what had 
happened, he reported the scam to B, who informed HSBC. A sum of £6,455.40 was 
recovered and returned.
Mr O was given conflicting information by the Police and HSBC (on a number of occasions) 
about how and when the funds were spent. He believes based on whats been 
communicated to him, except for £1,500 which hes consistently been told was withdrawn in 
cash on 11 May 2019, all the remaining funds were available for recovery on 12 May 2019. 
He says this means HSBC, upon receipt of notification of fraud from B, failed to immediately 
place blocks on the beneficiary account, and this failure resulted in further funds being spent 
by the scammer. So instead of a possible £15,250, HSBC only returned £6,455.40 to B. 
Mr O says HSBCs omission resulted in a loss that otherwise wouldve been prevented. He 
asked HSBC to refund Cs remaining loss. 
HSBC didnt agree. Mr O referred his complaint to our service. Our Investigator was satisfied 
HSBC had blocked the account on 12 May 2019 to prevent any further losses. But she 
partially upheld the complaint and asked HSBC to provide a refund of £276.53 as shed not 
seen any evidence that the transactions totalling this sum had taken place before Bs 
notification was received. For the rest of the funds that had been spent she was satisfied 
these transactions took place before notification was received from B. Mr O wasnt satisfied 
with the outcome and asked for an Ombudsman to reconsider his complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I reached a different outcome to the Investigator. I spoke to 
Mr O to provide assurances about what evidence Id seen and why I couldnt uphold this 
complaint. Mr O still strongly disagreed, so I wrote to him with my intended decision. I said: 
My intended decision is that I'm satisfied HSBC took prompt action on receipt of notification 
and returned to B the sum that it reasonably could've recovered. It follows that I don't intend
on asking HSBC to do any more.
My reasons are as follows:
-I've seen HSBC's system notes and it took prompt action in the morning of 
12 May 2019 after receipt of notification from B. The available balance of £6455.40 
was returned to B.
-I've seen evidence from HSBC's fraud department and also its system screenshots 
which show detailed information about each transaction that took place after the 
arrival of Cs funds. Having reviewed these, I'm satisfied card payments and cash 
withdrawals totalling over £10,000 all took place across 10 May 2019 and 
11 May 2019  not on 12 May 2019 as Mr O was led to believe.
-I'm also satisfied from what I've seen that no transactions actually took place on 
12 May 2019. This also supports the position that HSBC acted early on 12 May 2019.
As an independent and impartial person my role here is to consider the evidence provided 
by both parties and reach my own conclusions about what has happened here. In reaching 
this outcome I've relied on the contemporaneous evidence I've seen. I appreciate HSBC 
initially wrote to Mr O saying these transactions took place on 12 May 2019 and then 
changed its position to say they were carried out on 10 May 2019. I can see how this would 
create a feeling of distrust and why this would lead Mr O to question the reliability of the 
evidence it has provided. But I have no reason to doubt the credibility of the evidence I've 
been given. 
To me the screenshots HSBC have provided of its system which captures details about each 
individual transaction (including authorisation date, merchant details, type of transaction, 
authorisation code) is more reliable than the information given by HSBC staff which is 
potentially susceptible to human error. So on balance I think the information Mr O was given 
by HSBCs staff was incorrect. But simply because Mr O was given incorrect information isn't 
grounds upon which I can direct HSBC to refund Cs loss. This also applies to the points 
Mr O has raised about his branch visit after discovering hed fallen victim to a scam.
I can see HSBC and the Police have shared conflicting information with Mr O and with that in 
mind I can see why he believes something has gone wrong here. Whilst I can't tell Mr O why 
he was told these things I'll try and explain why and how this might have happened.
-The account statements show the transactions that were authorised on 10 May 2019 
and 11 May 2019 (after receipt of Cs funds) as debiting the account on 
14 May 2019. It is not uncommon for card payments to post to the account and 
appear on the statements several days after they were in fact made/authorised.
-The length of time a transaction remains pending is usually down to how quickly the 
merchant fully processes the payment. Generally, it takes a couple of days for 
transactions to fully process and post to the payers account, but this could also 
sometimes take a bit longer depending on the merchant and the transaction type.
-Pending debit card transactions cannot be stopped by the cardholders bank as these 
are authorised payments that have been promised to be paid and the merchant 
wouldve usually already parted with goods or provided services. So HSBC couldnt 
have done anything to stop these pending transactions.
-At the time of Mr Os visit to the branch the transactions had not all been posted to 
the beneficiary account. So, the detail that would be available after the payments are 
fully processed would not have been visible.-The banks systems may also be configured in a way that the granular level of detail 
about each transaction may not have been accessible to the person Mr O spoke to  
which may explain the discrepancy in the information he was given. Or it could simply 
be the case that his concerns werent investigated thoroughly and accurately. Either 
way this shouldnt detract from the factwhich is that these funds were spent before 
B notified HSBC.
I am truly sorry to hear about the impact these losses have had on Cs business, and for the 
length of time Mr O has been waiting for this complaint to be decided. But despite my natural 
sympathy for the situation, I cant fairly ask HSBC to refund Cs loss.
HSBC said it had nothing further to add. Mr O didnt agree. He still feels strongly that HSBC 
should be asked to return Cs outstanding loss (except perhaps the £1,500 withdrawn on 
11 May 2019) for the following reasons:
- If there was any mistake by HSBC staff; misleading information given; omission due 
to technical/computer system error in the processing of the payments, then Mr O 
thinks HSBC should bear the consequences.  
- He also alleges HSBC have falsely dated screenshots to deny C justice. He still 
believes several transactions took place after HSBC received notification from B. 
- He says HSBC have acted deceitfully by providing him with inaccurate information 
about when the transactions took place. 
- Mr O also reiterated several points and arguments that hed made before. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised Mr Os response, I would like to reassure him I have read 
and considered all his arguments. I understand he feels very strongly that his complaint 
should be upheld and naturally he is disappointed. But Ive not been provided anything new 
(that is relevant) to consider, so Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions.
Im still satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that HSBC acted the same day it received 
notification from B that the beneficiary account was in receipt of fraudulently obtained funds 
 that being 12 May 2019. And that all of Cs funds apart from £6455.40, which HSBC 
returned, were spent across 10 May 2019 and 11 May 2019  so even before Mr O had 
notified B.   
 
I note Mr Os assertions that HSBC have fabricated the evidence it has provided our service, 
but Ive seen no evidence to support this. Nor have I seen anything that would suggest there 
has been a system error when processing the payments made to (by C) or from the 
beneficiary account before it was blocked (which was early morning 12 May 2019). 
Ive already explained to Mr O that being given inaccurate information by a member of 
HSBCs staff about when the transactions took place  doesnt mean HSBC reasonably 
failed to prevent Cs loss. I disagree with Mr O that such a failure should mean that HSBC 
should refund the difference between what was recovered and what he sent (excluding 
£1,500 that was withdrawn on 11 May 2019). I could only fairly direct HSBC to refund Cs 
losses if I was persuaded that its acts or omissions reasonably resulted in a loss that 
otherwise wouldve been prevented  which is not the case here. Ive thought about all of HSBCs actions and I dont think any of these lead to it being fair and 
reasonable to ask HSBC to provide a refund for any of Cs remaining loss. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman