DRN-2430918
The complaint
Mr K and Ms K complain that the terms of their Nationwide current account didnt allow for
them to make euro transfers to SEPA (single euro payments area) countries free of charge.
They say Nationwide unlawfully charged its customers for these transfers by not adhering to
regulation.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 November 2020. I gave both parties 
the chance to respond. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, as it forms part of this final decision.
What happened
Mr K and Ms K have a current account that they jointly hold with Nationwide, however Mr K 
has communicated with this service in respect of the complaint and so Ill refer to Mr K 
throughout this provisional decision.
Mr K complains that Nationwide hasnt followed EU regulation relating to charges for 
transfers to SEPA countries  and has wrongfully charged its customers for these types of 
transfers.
Mr K says that the regulation came into effect in December 2019, which ought to have taken 
place with immediate effect. However, he says that Nationwides website stated that it would 
still be charging for these types of transactions.
Mr K says that he didnt make the transfer with Nationwide because of these charges  and 
used a different service provider for the transaction. He says this was an inconvenience to 
him and to resolve the complaint he would like an apology from Nationwide.
Nationwide responded to say that it had no obligation to offer this type of transfer free of 
charge. However, it made a commercial decision in January 2020 to offer this payment 
service for free to its customers. It says that it hasnt done anything wrong and so it didnt 
uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Our investigator also looked into Mr Ks concerns. He said that it wasnt for him to say 
whether Nationwide had acted unlawfully. But he thought about the impact this situation had 
on Mr K. Our investigator found that Mr K hadnt gone ahead with the transaction with 
Nationwide, and he went on to do this elsewhere. And so he didnt think Mr K had been 
impacted by this financially, and he didnt think Mr K has suffered much trouble or upset by 
carrying out the transaction elsewhere.
Mr K didnt agree. He says that this service should be able to stop Nationwide from 
continuing to implement a policy where it is unlawful. And that he has suffered a loss as a 
result of what he says Nationwide has done wrong.
Because Mr K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr K and Ms Ks complaint.
Our service has regard to the relevant law, but my core responsibility is to determine a 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case.
I understand that Mr Ks complaint is about Nationwides wider business practices, but this 
service doesnt have the power to punish or fine businesses. We also cant ask financial 
businesses to change its policies or procedures, even where, as Mr K says is the case in this 
instance, they might not comply with regulation. This is the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
It is the role of this service to consider individual complaints, so Ive considered whats 
happened in Mr Ks case. Ive looked at the regulation Mr K has referred to  Regulation 
924/2009 on cross border payments which was amended by EU Regulation 2019/518 in 
December 2019. I have also looked at further guidance issued by the European Banking 
Federation (EBF).
The regulation doesnt state that euro transfers to SEPA countries should be charge free. So 
it doesnt prohibit Nationwide from charging for this type of transfer. It says:
Charges levied by a payment service provider on a payment service user in respect of
crossborder payments in euro shall be the same as the charges levied by that payment
service provider for corresponding national payments of the same value in the national
currency of the Member State in which the payment service provider of the payment service
user is located.
So in summary, the regulation says that a payment service provider shouldnt be charging 
more for a euro transfer to SEPA countries than it does for a corresponding national 
payment.
The regulation doesnt define corresponding national payment, but the guidance issued by 
the EBF has given further information on this. And it says that it is up to the payment service 
provider to determine what it considers to be a corresponding national payment.
Nationwide has provided me with an explanation as to what it considered to be a 
corresponding national payment, stating that it charged more for this type of transfer than it 
did for a euro SEPA transfer. I have no reason to dispute what Nationwide has said, and its 
explanation shows that its had consideration for the regulation.
Given that the regulation doesnt prevent Nationwide from charging for a SEPA transfer, Im 
not minded to say that it has done anything wrong.
But even if I were to decide in Mr Ks favour, which Im not planning on doing, I still wouldnt 
be asking Nationwide to do anything more for Mr K. Where a business has done something 
wrong, Id look to put the complainant back in the position they would have been in had 
something not gone wrong.In this case, Mr K says he noticed that Nationwide intended to charge him for this transfer, 
so he went to a different provider to make the transfer for free. Mr K hasnt had to pay a 
charge to make the transfer and so I cant say that hes lost out financially. And I dont think 
that Mr K has been inconvenienced too much as a result of making the transfer elsewhere. 
So even if I were to decide Nationwide had done something wrong, which Im not, I wouldnt 
be asking it to do anything more for Mr K.
Both parties agree that Nationwide has since, in January 2020, changed its policy to offer 
this type of transfer for free. Nationwide says this isnt to do with its regulatory requirement 
(as it says it isnt required to offer the transfer for free), but a commercial decision.
Nevertheless, Mr K shouldnt have any issues with being charged for this type of transaction 
going forward.
Nationwide didnt respond directly to my provisional decision to say if it had anything to add 
or not, so Ive assumed that it hasnt.
Mr K responded with a number of points which I will summarise below:
He feels I have misrepresented what he has said to this service about what he wants 
from Nationwide to put things right. And hes unhappy the provisional decision reads 
as though he has said that he has lost out financially when he didnt say this.
Mr K asked for information provided by Nationwide which explains how they have 
decided what a corresponding national payment is. Mr K has now seen this 
information. 
Mr K wanted me to provide clarity that he isnt saying that Nationwide should offer the 
payment free of charge, but he feels that it shouldnt charge for relatively low value 
transfers.
Mr K has explained why he doesnt feel that Nationwide have been fair in deciding 
what a corresponding national payment is  and has provided reasons as to why he 
thinks Nationwide would treat this as a faster service payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr K and Ms Ks complaint. 
Id like to apologise if Mr K feels that I have misrepresented what he has said. I am aware 
that he has agreed that he hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of what he says 
Nationwide has done wrong. And I have noted that he says he has suffered inconvenience 
and loss of time from having to make the transfer with a different bank.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about how he thinks Nationwide should have interpreted 
a corresponding national payment and that he thinks a SEPA transfer should be treated in 
the same way as a faster payment. But while Nationwide could have treated SEPA 
payments in this way, it is for me to decide if Nationwide has acted unfairly by deciding to 
treat them in a similar way to CHAPS payments. 
The regulation states that Nationwide doesnt have to offer the SEPA transfer for free. And 
guidance from the EBF says it is up to the payment service provider, in this case Nationwide, 
to decide what a corresponding national payment is. In this respect, Nationwide appears to 
have acted within the scope of the referenced guidance, and it has explained the reasons for 
the decision it took. The EBF doesnt set out a definitive position that would enable me to say that Nationwide did 
something wrong in the way it interpreted a corresponding national payment. So, for me to 
be able to decide that Nationwide has done something wrong here, Id have to decide that 
there was a clear flaw in the way it went about its decision. As Ive said in my provisional 
decision, I dont find anything about Nationwides explanation unreasonable. And so, I cant 
say that it wasnt entitled to do what it did.
If Mr K feels that Nationwide have interpreted the regulation unfairly then this would be 
something he would need to raise with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Given that the regulation doesnt state that Nationwide had to offer this type of payment 
transfer free of charge, and the further guidance from the EBF states that it would be up to 
the payment service provider to decide what the corresponding payment type would be, I 
cant find that Nationwide did something wrong in charging for this service. 
While I appreciate that Mr K might have been inconvenienced and lost time in going to a 
different bank to complete the transfer, because I dont think Nationwide has done anything 
wrong, I wont be asking it to apologise to Mr K. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr K and Ms Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman