DRN-2869445
The complaint
Mrs H complains because XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (hereafter XL Catlin) 
declined her travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs H booked a trip to Malta through an activity based camp provider on 12 January 2020. 
She purchased her flights for the trip separately. And was due to travel between 22 and 
27 March 2020. 
On 5 March 2020, Mrs H purchased a silver travel insurance policy underwritten by XL 
Catlin.
However, because of Covid-19, on 13 March 2020 the Maltese government implemented a 
mandatory 14 day quarantine period for arrivals into the country. That requirement applied to 
all tourists and returning residents, and any asymptomatic visitors were told to choose 
between either self-quarantine or returning to their country of origin. 
On 16 March 2020 the Maltese government also called for all travellers intending to return 
home to do so as soon as possible. It confirmed all incoming flights would be suspended 
from 20 March 2020. And it said there would only be one outgoing flight a day to London in 
operation from 23 March 2020. 
Mrs H cancelled her trip on 16 March 2020 and the airline cancelled her flights on 20 March 
2020. However, on 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised 
against all but essential travel. That advice was still in place on 22 March 2020  so, the date 
Mrs Hs trip was originally due to start.
Mrs H was told the costs of her flights would be refunded by the airline. But she was unable 
to get a refund from the activity camp provider and made a claim on her travel insurance 
policy.
XL Catlin declined Mrs Hs claim and said it wasnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of her policy. It also said that the cancellation section of Mrs Hs policy only covered certain 
events, and the reasons for Mrs Hs claim wasnt included within those. Mrs H complained 
about that decision, but XL Catlin maintained its position, so she referred her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. They recommended Mrs Hs complaint be 
upheld on the basis that she wasnt covered under the policy if she cancelled, but wasnt 
covered if she travelled against FCO advice either. 
XL Catlin disagreed. It said the policy was clear and unambiguous, and a claim would need 
to be as a result of a specified occurrence. Our investigator subsequently sent a second 
view giving additional reasons as to why she thought Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld 
but XL Catlin didnt reply. So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance
Our investigator has already drawn attention to the relevant rules and guidance, but for ease 
I will summarise them again here. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) also requires insurers to:
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer
handle claims promptly and fairly
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time, and in a way that is easy to understand so the customer can make an informed 
decision about the arrangements proposed. Appropriate information includes the information 
that must be set out in an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which gives 
customers an at a glance summary of their cover. This includes a summary of the 
insurance cover, including the main risks insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, 
the geographical scope and summary of excluded risks. 
And the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of 
Customers says firms should consider the impact of their actions or inactions on the 
customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided. 
The relevant policy documentation
Page 23 of the policy terms and conditions details the cancellation terms, and lists the 
specific insured events that are covered under that section of the policy. It reads:
We will pay you the following expenses incurred as the result of any of the specified 
occurrences in paragraphs a) to c) below:
Up to the sum insured shown in the Schedule of Benefits Table in respect of irrecoverable 
loss of unused holiday costs paid in advance or for which there is a contractual liability 
consequent upon the cancellation or curtailment of the pre-arranged trip, or if the trip is not 
cancelled.
Specified occurrences:
a) your death or sustaining an injury or becoming seriously ill.
b) The death, injury or serious illness of your relative, partner, fianc(e), business 
colleague or any person with whom you had arranged to travel.
c) You or any person with whom you had arranged to travel being:
(i) quarantined or called for witness or jury service.
(ii) Made redundant, provided that such redundancy qualifies for payment under the United Kingdoms Redundancy Payments Acts.
(iii) Called for emergency duty as a member of the armed forces, the defence or 
civil administration, the police force, the fire, rescue, public utility or medical 
services.
(iv)Required to be present at your home or place of business in your country of 
residence following a burglary or major damage caused by storm, flood or fire 
within ten (10) days of departure.
Page 15 and 16 of the terms and conditions set out the general exclusions which apply to 
the policy. And they read:
We will not pay any claim directly or indirectly caused or contributed to by:
10. You travelling to an area to which the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) have 
advised against all, or all but essential travel.
Moving forward, Ill refer to the above exclusion as the FCO exclusion. And turning to the 
IPID, the following is set out at the top of the first page:
This document is a summary of the key information relating to this insurance policy. 
Complete pre-contractual and contractual information on the product is provided in the full 
policy documentation. 
Page 1 (of 2) also includes the heading what is insured? and goes on to read:
Cancelling/cutting short your journey  loss of pre-paid trip expenses
And page 2 (of 2) contains the heading where am I covered? and reads:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For further 
details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice 
The declined claim
Mrs H cancelled her trip because the Maltese government had asked all visitors to the 
country to leave as soon as possible. However, the subsequent FCO guidance advising 
against all but essential travel remained in placed on the date that her trip was originally due 
to start (22 March 2020). 
Even if Mrs H had been able to travel to Malta, she would have been doing so against FCO 
advice, and would also have been expected to return home as soon as possible given Malta 
had asked all visitors to do so. But, more importantly, had Mrs H continued with her trip she 
would not have had access to any of the benefits provided by the policy; such as cover for 
emergency medical expenses, loss of baggage, and/or personal effects. So the policy would 
have in effect been of no use to her.
I appreciate XL Catlins position in this complaint and acknowledge that Mrs Hs cancellation 
claim is not for one of the specific, listed, insured events. But as part of deciding this 
complaint I must also consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of it. 
I have taken account of the relevant rules and guidance cited above, as well as the relevant 
law (including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015) in doing so.  
And having done that, Im not persuaded it is either fair or reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint for Mrs H to have no cover for cancellation due to a change in FCO advice after purchasing her policy. 
I say this because I dont think the exclusion of cancellation claims resulting from FCO 
advising against travel (or all but essential travel) was clearly signposted to Mrs H. Nor do I 
think the implication of it was explained. And as a result, I think thats resulted in Mrs H being 
put in an unfair position. 
An IPID is designed to provide consumers with essential information about their policy in a 
way that is easy to understand. But having looked at the IPID for Mrs Hs policy, I dont think 
the FCO exclusion is prominent. And there is no reference to cancellation claims because of 
changes to FCO advice not being covered under the heading What is not insured?. 
Similarly, the FCO exclusion within the policy terms does not set out that no cover is 
provided in the event of FCO advice changing after a policy was purchased but before the 
date of the intended departure. 
The policy schedule contains a table of benefits which details the various limits of the cover 
provided. The table cites cancellation and curtailment as covered. And sets out that the 
maximum benefit available with the silver policy is £2,500. The schedule does asks 
consumers to read the full terms and conditions of the policy to ensure that cover is in line 
with their requirements. So, in order for a consumer to try and establish whether a 
cancellation claim due to FCO advice was something their policy provided cover for, they 
would need to review the other policy documentation. 
As I set out above, page 23 of the terms and conditions sets out what cancellation reasons 
are covered in the event that a consumer is unable to travel as planned. Claims relating to 
changes in FCO advice are not included within that list as a specific exclusion. But they 
arent listed as included either. So, for a consumer to understand cancellation claims due to 
FCO advice are not covered, theyd need to cross reference this part of the terms with both 
pages 15 and 16 of the policy as well as the IPID.
I also think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from a change in FCO 
advise isnt transparent enough. The section of the policy setting out what will be covered if 
the customer is unable to travel is set out on page 23. But, the FCO exclusion isnt 
presented in the same place. So, I dont think it would be obvious to a policyholder that they 
would have no cover whatsoever under the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their 
destination after they purchased their policy. Even with a cooling-off period, I think a 
consumer might not be able to easily understand the full effect of the policy. I think the way 
the cancellation section of cover and the FCO exclusion are presented separately means 
their combined effect isnt clear.
So, having thought carefully about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I am not persuaded that the lack of any cover for cancellation claims in the event 
of FCO advice changing is clearly brought to a consumers attention. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for a consumer to only be able to understand the important limitations of their 
cover by thoroughly reading the terms and conditions, and then cross referencing different 
parts of those terms with other sections of the same document and the IPID. And I think this 
resulted in Mrs H being put in an unfair position. 
I say this because Mrs H was left with no cover when the FCO advice changed  and that 
shifted the rights and obligations under the contract significantly in XL Catlins favour. 
I am not persuaded that the terms and conditions of the policy properly took Mrs Hs 
interests into account either. And I dont think Mrs H would have freely agreed to a policy 
that left her without any cover in the above circumstances, had she realised thats how the policy would operate. So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available 
under the policy was presented was not fair. And I do not think XL Catlin acted in the best 
interests of its customers by presenting it in that way. 
I understand Mrs H cancelled her trip before FCO advice changed, but the FCO advice 
remained in force over the period she would have been due to travel. Mrs H has provided 
evidence from the activity camp provider that she is not entitled to a refund under their 
booking terms and conditions. So, even if Mrs H had waited to cancel her trip, I dont think 
shed have been entitled to a refund from the provider. 
For these reasons, I think the fair and reasonable thing for XL Catlin to do in this complaint is 
treat Mrs Hs claim as covered under the cancellation section of her policy. 
Putting things right
XL Catlin need to put things right by reconsidering Mrs Hs claim under the cancellation 
section of her cover  subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including 
any excess and/or policy limits.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct XL Catlin Insurance Company UK 
Limited to put things right in the way I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman