DRN-4382022
The complaint
Mr D is complaining about Startline Motor Finance Limiteds decision to lend to him  he 
says the loan was unaffordable. His complaint was brought to our service by a 
representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with him.
What happened
In August 2016, Mr D took out a hire purchase agreement with Startline, via a broker, to 
finance the purchase of a car. He paid a deposit of £1,278.90 and borrowed £15,742.10 over 
a 60-month term, with monthly repayments of £366. 
In June 2022 Mr D complained to Startline, saying they shouldnt have lent to him. He said 
theyd failed to conduct thorough, appropriate and reasonable checks specific to his 
application.
Startline didnt uphold his complaint. They said they support applicants who have a lower 
credit rating and said theyd done a proper assessment of affordability before deciding to 
lend to Mr D. They said their assessment considered the following:
Mr D was a married homeowner with regular employment. His bank statements 
confirmed his income was consistent.
Hed defaulted on two credit accounts in November 2014 but both had been settled in 
January 2016.
All other active credit accounts, including two mortgages, a hire purchase agreement, 
a credit card, and a loan, were all being well maintained. The existing hire purchase 
agreement was required to be settled as a condition of the lending.
So, they said, theyd completed a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, identifying no 
material risk of affordability issues. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Startlines response so he brought his complaint to our service and 
one of our investigators looked into it. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint  she said 
although she thought Startline hadnt carried out proportionate checks at the time, she hadnt 
seen enough evidence to say Startline should have discovered the agreement was 
unaffordable for Mr D. 
Startline accepted our investigators view. But Mr D wasnt happy. He said he owed over 
£70,000 at the time which should have been reason enough to decline his application. He 
felt hed provided enough evidence to give a clear picture of his financial circumstances at 
the time. He added that his monthly expenditure at the time included mortgage repayments 
of £636, loan repayments of £595, car loan repayments of £605, general monthly bills of 
£415 and credit cards and insurances totalling £185. And he said he was trying to make up 
missed payments on his loan and mortgage at the time as well.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint  and it came to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on 5 September 2023 which said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Startline carry out proportionate checks?
Startline checked Mr Ds credit file and were happy with what they found. Ive looked at 
Startlines copy of Mr Ds credit file. It shows five active accounts  two mortgage 
accounts, one credit card, one hire purchase agreement and a telecoms account. The 
total balance was nearly £71,000 (or £67,500 excluding the hire purchase agreement 
which was to be settled). Across these open accounts there were no missed payments 
and no balances over limit. So its fair to say Mr D was managing his active credit well. 
In addition, the credit file showed two settled accounts. These were for gas and electric, 
both defaulted in November 2014 and were settled in January 2016. There were no other 
indicators of any concern. 
The credit file showed that Mr D needed to make monthly payments of £1,511 against his 
loans. Assuming hed also pay 5% of his credit card balance each month, this meant his 
total payments towards outstanding credit were around £1,630. And once the new hire 
purchase agreement was factored in, this figure goes up to around £1,700. So Startline 
needed to be sure Mr Ds income was enough to manage these financial commitments as 
well as general living expenses.
Startline noted that they Mr Ds income wasnt declared on his application or validated. 
But they said they looked at his bank statements and noted his income fluctuated. They 
havent sent us the bank statements they looked at or told us how they decided Mr Ds 
income was enough to be sure the agreement was affordable. So I cant say they did 
proportionate checks. 
What would Startline have found if they had done proportionate checks?
A proportionate check would have involved Startline finding out more about Mr Ds 
income and expenditure to determine whether hed be able to make repayments in a 
sustainable way. 
As set out above, Mr D gave us an indication of his spending at the time, but the numbers 
dont agree to whats on his credit file. And I havent seen any indication of what his 
income was at the time. So Ive looked at Mr Ds bank statements to get a better idea of 
his financial circumstances. Because of the time that had passed, Mr D couldnt get hold 
of statements prior to 22 July 2016  but I think looking at three months around the time 
of his application gives a good indicator of what Startline would have found at the time if 
theyd done more. 
Ive considered the statements for the period from 22 July 2016 to 21 October 2016. They 
seem to show Mr Ds income fluctuated but was, on average, around £2,600 per month  
this comprises the amounts marked wages and the amounts marked dividends. 
However, these amounts were being paid into Mr Ds current account from his business 
account, which I havent seen statements for. And it looks like Mr D had another account 
from which he occasionally transferred money into this current account  again I dont have statements for that account. In addition, neither of Mr Ds monthly mortgage 
payments went out of this current account so on balance it seems likely Mr Ds income 
was actually higher than £2,600 per month  or his mortgage payments were covered by 
someone else on his behalf.
Without any further information, I think its safe to assume Mr Ds income was at least 
£2,600 per month while bearing in mind it was likely higher.
As I mentioned above, Mr Ds financial commitments were around £1,700 per month 
(including the new hire purchase agreement) at the time. At first glance I think it would 
have been reasonable for Startline to decide £2,600 income was enough for Mr D  this 
left around £900 to cover bills and food each month. 
Looking at Mr Ds bank statements, he was paying around £100 per month for 
insurances, around £80 per month towards credit providers and debt collectors not shown 
on his credit file and an average of £385 per month for his household bills. This would 
have left £335 for food, fuel, and other essentials  so Im not inclined to say this was 
unaffordable for Mr D. 
On balance, while I dont have a complete picture of Mr Ds finances at the time, Im 
inclined to say that if Startline had obtained done more to assess the affordability of this 
hire purchase agreement, they could reasonably have decided to lend to Mr D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision  so my findings remain unchanged.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about Startline Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman