DRN-3374535
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money did not meet his claim for 
a refund and additional losses in respect of flight tickets he paid for using his Virgin Money 
credit card. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr S booked a flight for him and his partner from Palma de Mallorca to
London Stansted with an Airline I shall refer to as J. The flights cost £269.69 and were due
to depart on 27 August 2019 at 17:35 and arrive at 19:10.
Mr S said after he checked in at Palma airport, he discovered the flight had been delayed.
He said this delay increased as the evening went on and the flight did not end up taking off
until 00:06 and landed at 01:10.
Mr S said that no assistance was offered by J while he was waiting at the airport and he had
to pay for additional food and drink. As a result of landing so late he said he missed the train
service hed booked and had to pay for alternative transport to get home. He said he also 
had to take the following day off work because he got home so late.
Mr S has said he tried to claim these losses back from J. He said he was told by J he could
not claim for them because the delay was caused by circumstances outside of its control.
Mr S asked Virgin Money to look into a refund for him and consider a claim for his additional
losses. Virgin Money raised a chargeback and placed a temporary credit of the sum claimed 
on Mr Ss credit card account. J defended the chargeback as it said the flight still went ahead 
so the service had been provided. Virgin Money then re-debited the money from Mr Ss 
account and did not pursue the chargeback further.
Mr S complained to Virgin Money as he believed the service he paid for had not been
provided because it was not delivered at the time agreed in his contract with J. He said J had
also breached its contract with him as it had failed to provide a number of remedies he was
entitled to under European Regulation 261/2004 (the EC Regs). Mr S brought his complaint
to this service as Virgin Money did not provide a formal response to it.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 where I explained that I didnt plan to uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. My reasons for this can be summarised as follows:
It was very unlikely that Virgin Money would have obtained a refund of the tickets via 
the chargeback process if it had pursued this more robustly. The chargeback dispute 
code used was where services had not been provided. And although Mr Ss flight 
was delayed, it still went ahead. 
In the event of a flight failing to operate reasonably to schedule Mr Ss contract with J 
provided that it would, at his option, carry him on another flight where available or 
pay him a refund. But the contract also said that Mr S could only claim a refund on 
the unused part of a ticket. And Mr S had used his ticket because he got on the flight 
home. It was also no longer practicable to put him on another flight for obvious 
reasons. Furthermore, even if J had made Mr S aware of these options when he was 
at the airport, I hadnt seen persuasive evidence that there were alternative earlier 
flights with availability that Mr S could have chosen or that he would have chosen to 
receive a refund rather than waiting for his flight to depart. Overall, Virgin Money had 
not treated Mr S unfairly by declining to pay a him a refund of the cost of the flight 
under section 75. 
Js failure to carry Mr S to the agreed destination at the scheduled time could have 
been a breach of contract in this particular case. So, Virgin Money might have been 
liable to Mr S for his reasonably foreseeable additional losses as a result  such as 
the additional transport costs he incurred to get home from the airport. Mr S had not 
however provided persuasive evidence of these losses. So, I didnt think it was 
reasonable that Virgin Money pay them to Mr S in any event. 
Mr S may have had a claim for compensation against J under the EC Regs as a 
result of the delay to his flight.  However, because of the way Js contract was 
worded, if J had failed to pay him this compensation, then this might have been a 
breach of its obligations under the EC Regs, but not a breach of contract. So, the 
failure to pay compensation was not something I thought Mr S could hold Virgin 
Money liable for under section 75.
J might have breached its contract with Mr S by failing to provide him information 
about his rights under the EC Regs as the contract required it to do this in the event 
of a delay as long as that faced by Mr S. But seeing as J turned down Mr Ss claim 
for compensation under the EC Regs after he got home, and was not contractually 
obliged to pay a claim under them in any event, I did not find Mr S lost out as a result 
of this. 
Mr S did not provide a response to my provisional decision. 
Virgin Money said it had nothing further to add.
The complaint was therefore passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Seeing as Ive received no new comments or evidence from Mr S since I issued my 
provisional decision, and because Virgin Money told us it had nothing further to add, I see no 
reason to change the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision, or the reasons for that 
conclusion.
Flight delays are of course frustrating and I recognise that Mr Ss experience was not good 
at all given the length of the delay in his case. Ive considered Virgin Moneys liability to Mr S 
under chargeback and section 75 and whether it unfairly declined to meet his claim. But for 
the reasons I gave in my provisional decision  as summarised above  I dont think it did. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman