DRN-1708472
 
The complaint
Mrs H says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy was added to 
Mrs Hs credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
The PPI cost around 75p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. If Mrs H had made a 
successful claim, it would have paid 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to 
12 months if she was off sick, or if she lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs H has told us the PPI was added to her account without her knowledge or 
consent. Ive seen a copy of Mrs Hs credit card application. It included a section on 
PPI, with a brief description of the purpose of the cover, and it says that RBS 
strongly recommends that the applicant take out the cover. Theres a box to tick if 
the applicant wishes to take out the cover. Mrs H ticked the box to indicate that she 
wished to take PPI. 
 
Mrs Hs representative has pointed out that there was a message at the top of the 
application form which warned that the application may be delayed if all questions on 
the form werent answered. Theyve suggested that this could mislead the consumer 
into feeling that leaving the section on PPI blank could lead to their application being 
delayed. But I dont accept that not ticking the box to say the applicant wished to take 
PPI amounted to not answering a question on the form. And I think it was clear from 
the fact that it said that RBS strongly recommended the cover that it wasnt 
compulsory.  
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that RBS made it clear to Mrs H that the 
PPI was optional. And I think she decided to take it knowing that she had a choice  
although I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years 
later.
 
Mrs H applied for the credit card and PPI by post. I think its unlikely that she had any 
direct contact with RBSs staff during the application process. So I think its unlikely 
that RBS advised her to take out the PPI, or made any personal recommendation to 
her about it. This means it didnt need to check that the policy was suitable for Mrs H. 
Mrs H has commented that she didnt receive any follow-up call from RBS to discuss 
her application. But it no responsibility to do this. It was for Mrs H to decide whether 
she wished to take the cover, knowing what alternative means shed have had of 
making her monthly credit card payments if she was off sick or lost her job. But RBS 
did have a responsibility to give Mrs H enough information to enable her to decide for 
herself whether the PPI was right for her.
 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think Mrs H chose to take out the policy - so it looks as if she 
wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look as if shed 
have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, such as unusual 
working arrangements or existing medical conditions.
 
Mrs H has told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. But if shed 
made a successful claim on the policy, it would have paid 10% of her credit card 
balance each month for up to 12 months. So it would potentially have paid out for 
longer than Mrs H would have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, it would 
have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs H received from her employer. So 
she could have used those to meet other expenses. And she wouldnt have had to 
use her savings to make her monthly credit card repayments.
 
I acknowledge that Mrs H has told us she had plenty of assets, and she could have 
looked at selling them or downsizing to completely pay off her credit card balance. 
But I think its unlikely, on balance, that Mrs H would have wanted to go to the trouble 
of selling her belongings or downsizing in order to meet her credit card repayments. 
Mrs H has also told us that her partner and parents would have supported her 
financially if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that Mrs 
Hs partner or family would have been in a position to help her if the need had arisen. 
So taking everything into account, I think the protection the policy offered could have 
been useful to Mrs H.
 
The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs H 
couldnt afford it. And as she was paying for the policy monthly, she could have 
cancelled it at any time with no further cost if her circumstances changed, or if she 
decided she no longer wanted the cover. 
 So having considered Mrs Hs circumstances at the time and the benefits the policy 
offered, Im not convinced that better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking it out. And I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs H and her representatives have said, including what 
theyve said about Mrs H not having been told about the cancellation terms of the policy. But 
Im satisfied, on balance, that full terms and conditions of the policy would have been sent to 
Mrs H with a certificate of insurance shortly after she applied for the card and PPI. Ive 
explained that I think Mrs H had chosen to take out the PPI. And if shed decided she didnt 
want it after all, but wasnt sure how to cancel it, I think its likely shed have contacted RBS 
to ask about how to go about this. Ive seen nothing to suggest that she did so. So this 
doesnt change my conclusion that the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But (if it hasnt already done so) RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H 
because: 
It got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mrs H, 
that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
RBS has to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mrs H any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs H the difference between 
what she owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mrs H 8%* simple interest 
if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs H can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should do that now if it 
hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman