DRN-3502705
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited hasnt offered a fair settlement for 
the total loss of his vehicle after a claim was made on his motor insurance policy. Hes also 
unhappy with the way his claim has been handled.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr M was involved in a road traffic accident which caused damage to his 
vehicle. So he made a claim on his motor insurance policy, underwritten by Admiral.
Admiral determined that the vehicle was a total loss and made an offer to settle the claim. 
But Mr M was unhappy and raised a complaint, the main points of which are as follows:
The settlement offer is too low, and Mr M cant replace his car for the amount offered. 
Adverts for similar vehicles show the car is worth more and Admirals own website 
calculates the cost at a far greater value.
The vehicle was taken without Mr Ms approval after hed indicated he wanted to 
retain the salvage.
There have been delays with the claim and poor customer service provided.
Due to the amount of time Mr M was left without a vehicle or the settlement value, 
hes had to hire cars for work and essential journeys leaving him financially out of 
pocket.
Admiral upheld elements of Mr Ms complaint. It said there had been delays and poor 
customer service, and it had taken the vehicle after Mr M had asked it not to. It offered £50 
compensation for what went wrong and offered to return the salvage to Mr M waiving the 
redelivery fee of £138.
But Admiral didnt agree with Mr Ms other complaint points. It said the policy would only pay 
the market value of the vehicle at the time of the loss which, according to the motor trade 
guides, was £4,056 minus the policy excess of £600. It said the valuation tool on its website 
was for finance / loans and not for calculating the market value.
As Mr M was unhappy with this response, he brought his complaint to our service. And our 
investigator upheld it. She obtained her own quotes from the motor trade guides and felt that 
a more appropriate settlement figure would be £4,953, minus the policy excess. She asked 
Admiral to pay the difference plus 8% simple interest.
Our investigator was also of the opinion that Admiral should pay the costs of Mr Ms hire 
vehicles, as she considered that had it not been for the claim delays, he wouldnt have 
needed to hire vehicles and wouldve purchased a replacement instead. She recommended 
Admiral pay £100 compensation for the overall failings in the claim.
Mr M was still of the opinion that the settlement offer was too low. And Admiral didnt agree 
that it should be responsible for the hire charges. As our investigator was unable to resolve 
things, the complaint was passed to me, and in May 2022, I issued a provisional decision as 
follows:
Settlement offer
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms motor insurance policy say that it will cover the insured 
vehicle if its damaged in certain circumstances. It says Admiral will either repair the vehicle 
or pay a cash sum to replace it, limited to the market value of the vehicle.
The policy defines the market value as
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term 
market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides.
In Mr Ms case, his vehicle was deemed a total loss after the accident. So Admiral offered a 
cash sum of £4,056 minus the policy excess, which it said was the higher valuation provided 
by the motor trade guides.
But our investigator obtained her own valuations from the three main guides which placed 
the market value at £4,980, £4,925 and £6,852. I agree with our investigator that the higher 
of the three valuations appears to be an outlier. I say this because the first two valuations 
are very close and the third is a lot higher. So Im more persuaded that the first two are a 
fairer reflection of the market value.
With that in mind, I intend to direct Admiral to pay the average of the first two valuations, 
which stands at £4,953. Admiral is entitled to deduct the policy excess from the settlement.
Salvage
In May 2021, Mr M informed Admiral that he wanted to keep his vehicle  at least until a 
valuation had been agreed. But Admiral says that when it was unable to get hold of him in 
June 2021, arrangements were made to collect it.
In its final response letter, Admiral upheld this element of the complaint. And it said if Mr M 
still wants the salvage, it would return the vehicle to him waiving the £138 redelivery fee.
Its not clear if Mr M accepted this offer or not. But Im satisfied that it was a fair offer in 
resolution to this part of the complaint. I say this because it wouldve put Mr M back in the 
position he wouldve been in had Admiral not collected the vehicle against his wishes. As 
such, Im not persuaded that any compensation is warranted in respect to this part of the 
complaint.
Im not aware of whether this offer would still be available as I dont know if Admiral still has 
the salvage  especially given that the offer was made in August 2021. If Mr M didnt accept 
the offer at that time, I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to have disposed of the 
vehicle. But if Admiral do still have it and Mr M still wants it, then Admiral should return the 
vehicle and deduct the salvage amount of £892.32 from the settlement.
Claims handlingMr M complains about the length of time its taken Admiral to deal with his claim and the 
poor customer service provided by its staff. Admiral dont dispute that theres been a failing 
here and it offered £50 compensation to put things right.
Our investigator didnt think this offer went far enough to recognise the impact Mr M 
experienced. She said it took Admiral six months to settle the claim and during that time
Mr M was without a vehicle and had to hire cars. Shes asked Admiral to reimburse Mr Ms 
hire charges and increase its compensation offer to £100.
Having reviewed the file, I can see that Mr M made his claim to Admiral on 30 April 2021. 
Admiral contacted the third party and considered liability. During that time, it arranged an 
inspection of the vehicle and concerns were raised over the tyre tread depths. Further 
investigations were made to determine whether this contributed to the accident and the 
roadworthiness of the vehicle, which may have impacted cover under the policy. Admiral say 
it issued a payment to settle the claim on 10 June 2021  41 days after the claim was made.
I understand Mr M says he didnt receive this payment, which was sent via cheque. He says 
he moved home twice around this time and notified Admiral of his new addresses. But 
Admiral say it was only notified of an address change on 9 August 2021 and it was only 
notified that Mr M hadnt received the cheque on 31 August 2021.
Based on this information, Im not persuaded theres been any major delays here. The claim 
was settled in 41 days which isnt unreasonable. And whilst there is some discrepancy over 
whether the cheque was sent to the correct address, I havent seen anything to show me 
that Mr M changed his address with Admiral prior to the date the cheque was sent or that 
hed notified Admiral that he hadnt received it. I can see that once Admiral were notified of 
this, it cancelled the cheque and issued another one to Mr Ms new address, which I 
understand was received and deposited.
Admiral has agreed to pay the increased compensation of £100 and I understand this also 
reflects some poor customer service from its staff. So overall, I think its fair that Admiral pay 
this amount.
Hire charges
As Mr Ms vehicle wasnt repairable, he wasnt covered for a courtesy car under the policy. I 
appreciate this left him without a vehicle whilst his claim was being considered. But our 
service wouldnt expect an insurer to pay for a hire car in these circumstances as this isnt 
something that the policy provides.
I havent identified any major delays on Admirals part which would persuade me to deviate 
from this approach and direct Admiral to pay for something that the policy doesnt offer. So 
Im not inclined to award any hire charges.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr M and Admiral have accepted my provisional decision. Mr M doesnt appear to want 
the salvage any longer, and has asked that Admiral pay the awarded amount by bank 
transfer rather than cheque. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both parties have accepted, I see no reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part and direct 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Increase the claim settlement to £4,953.
Admiral is entitled to deduct the policy excess along with any payment it has already
made towards the market value. It should pay 8% simple interest per year on the 
remaining balance from the date the initial settlement was made to the date this is
paid.*
Pay compensation of £100
This is in recognition of the delays and poor customer service Admiral had identified
in its complaint response. It can deduct any compensation amount it has already paid
toward this.
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman