DRN-2832497
The complaint
Mr S complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Financial 
Services (Argos) unfairly registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr S took out a store card with Argos and purchased an electrical item 
for just under £200. Due to the value of the item it qualified for a Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) payment plan which provided Mr S with six months to pay for it without incurring 
any interest. Under the terms and conditions of the card, Mr S could either pay instalments 
towards the cost during those six months or pay the whole amount when six months had 
been reached. 
In January 2020 Mr S bought a second item costing £20. He says that he thought the BNPL 
payment plan would extend to this item and so he didnt need to make a payment until the 
six-month date for the first item had been reached. However, the terms and conditions for 
the store card stated that only items of £50 or higher qualified for a BNPL payment plan. 
Lower valued items would only qualify if multiple items were grouped together and their total 
reached more than £50. Therefore the £20 item was added to Mr Ss normal credit balance 
and he was liable to make minimum payments each month to clear that balance.
Mr S says that due to personal circumstances he had to change his home address for a 
period. He didnt tell Argos that he wasnt currently at the address hed registered when 
taking out the store card. Argos continued to send Mr S his monthly statements to the 
registered home address. These statements set out the minimum payment that was 
required. Mr S didnt make any payments and so from February 2020 his account fell into 
arrears. Late payments charges were added. 
Argos also wrote to Mr S, again at the registered address, in March, April and May 2020 to 
inform him that his store card account was in arrears. It received no response from Mr S.
In May 2020 due to the level of arrears, Argos issued a default notice to Mr S setting out that 
if the arrears werent cleared by June 2020 then a default would be registered. Mr S didnt 
contact Argos and so a default was registered on Mr Ss credit file. Mr S cleared the full 
balance of his store card in July 2020.
Mr S was unhappy to discover that Argos had registered a default on his credit file and so 
made a complaint. Argos didnt uphold his complaint. 
Argos said that the £20 item didnt qualify for a BNPL payment plan and this was set out in 
the cards terms and conditions. It said that Mr S had been required to make monthly 
payments towards the £20 balance and had failed to do so. Argos explained it had sent him 
monthly statements that set out the minimum amount due and had also sent further 
correspondence and the default notice. While it appreciated Mr S hadnt received this, it was 
Mr Ss responsibility under the terms and conditions to tell Argos if hed changed his contact 
details. Mr S hadnt done so.
 
Argos said it had followed its processes correctly and the registering of the default was a 
true and accurate reflection of how Mr S had managed his credit account. It said it would not 
remove the default it had registered on Mr Ss credit file.
Mr S was unhappy about Argos view and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator said that he thought the terms and conditions of the store card had been 
clear regarding both the BNPL payment plans and which items would qualify as well as Mr 
Ss obligation to notify Argos of any change in contact details. He said he thought Argos had 
followed the correct processes and that the registering of the default on Mr Ss credit file was 
fair in the circumstances. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He said he found the terms and conditions 
unclear and hed been misled about how a BNPL payment plan worked. Mr S said he was 
paying a huge price due to the impact of the default on his credit file for such a small sum 
that had been outstanding. Mr S said hed made a genuine error and the default was 
unjustified in all the circumstances.
As Mr S didnt accept our investigators view the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the store cards agreement, this sets out there is both a normal credit balance on 
which minimum payments are due each month and BNPL payment plans which have 
different arrangements and that no minimum monthly payments have to be made towards 
these balances. Mr S has also signed this agreement to show he agrees to be bound by its 
terms and conditions.
Looking then at the full terms and conditions, these clearly state that purchases made using 
the card will be made on normal credit unless a BNPL plan is offered and says that 
statements must be checked each month. It also says that customers must tell Argos 
straight away if there are any changes to their contact details.
There are further details provided as to the BNPL payment plan and how these enable the 
customer to spread the cost of their payments when a certain amount is spent. This sets out 
that up to three months is given for items costing £50 or more, six months if £99 or more and 
up to 12 months on selected purchases. It also says, you can take out a credit plan when 
you group together multiple items and the total value reaches £50 or more. Mr S says that 
as he had one item already under a payment plan, he thought the second item would be 
added to that existing plan. He says he was misled by the terms of the BNPL payment plans 
as set out.
But, Im afraid I dont agree. I think its clear that single items qualify for BNPL payment plans 
only if they cost £50 or more. If an item costs less than £50, then it would only qualify if a 
number of other items were also purchased at the same time and the total cost of all of those 
items is £50 or more. Here, Mr S purchased two items at two separate times using his store 
card. The first being over £50 qualified for a BNPL payment plan, the second, an item 
costing £20 and purchased around one month later, did not. The second item was therefore 
added to Mr Ss normal credit balance on his account and required him to make at least the 
monthly minimum payments towards clearing that balance. Ive seen that Mr Ss store card statements also clearly set out the position and the 
payments due. I appreciate Mr S didnt get these documents, but I cant reasonably say that 
was Argos fault. Mr S had a responsibility to tell Argos about any changes to his contact 
details which he accepts he didnt do.
Argos sent three letters and then the default notice to Mr S. I cant reasonably say that Argos 
didnt attempt to make contact with Mr S, and the correspondence sets out the 
consequences of not paying the arrears that were accruing on the account. Im satisfied that 
Argos followed its processes when an account falls behind in payments.
I appreciate that the amount overdue was relatively small, and that had Mr S known his 
account was behind he would have taken steps to rectify the position, but I think its fair to 
say that Mr S didnt manage his account in line with the terms and conditions hed agreed to 
when taking out the store card. So, Argos was entitled to take the steps that it did including 
the issuing and registering of the default. Mr Ss account was several months in arrears by 
the time Mr S made payment.
Argos have an obligation to record accurately and fairly information as to how a consumer 
manages a credit account on their credit file. Mr S challenges that Argos acted fairly 
because the default has had a disproportionate impact on him when taking into account the 
actual amount owed. But I cant reasonably say that Argos has done anything wrong. The 
terms and conditions of the card were clear, and it attempted to make contact several times 
with Mr S over a period of several months to rectify the situation. So, I think it acted fairly and 
accurately when registering the default on Mr Ss credit file after sending him the default 
notice.
Mr S says that Argos has a discretion not to register the default notice on his credit file, but I 
think that is a matter for Argos. Im satisfied that it has acted fairly and reasonably when 
dealing with Mr S and the arrears that accrued on his account and so Im not asking it 
remove the default. Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 05 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman