DRN-2435515
The complaint
Miss U and Mr B complain about how The Mortgage Business Plc has dealt with their 
account. Miss U has dealt with this complaint throughout. Miss U says TMB hasnt contacted 
Mr B about the arrears on their account.
What happened
Miss U and Mr B took out a joint mortgage. They separated and Mr B hasnt lived at the 
property for some years. Miss U said Mr B signed over his interest in the property to her and 
said he wants nothing more to do with the property or the mortgage. 
The mortgage account is in arrears. Miss U says TMB should have contacted Mr B about the 
arrears.
Our investigator said TMBs process is to contact customers using the details it has on file. 
She said she wouldnt expect it to try to trace Mr B about arrears.
Miss U didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman to decide. 
This is the final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss U and Mr B took out a joint mortgage. As is usually the case with a joint mortgage, they 
are jointly and severally liable for the mortgage. This means they are each responsible for all 
of the debt, and TMB can ask both of them or either of them for payments. 
Mr B left the property some years ago. However, while Mr B is on the mortgage account he 
remains responsible for the mortgage and TMB can ask him for payments. TMB says it tries 
to contact customers using the contact details it has for them. It says it wouldnt usually try to 
trace a customer in order to contact them about arrears.
I should note here that TMB has a duty to keep its customers details confidential. With 
limited exceptions, it cant give Miss U information about Mr B. Nor can it give information to 
Mr B about Miss U.
I appreciate Miss U might feel its unfair that Mr B hasnt made payments, and that TMB 
hasnt ensured he does so. But the nature of a joint mortgage is that the lender can ask both 
or either borrower to make payments. I dont think TMB has done anything wrong here. 
I dont know what action, if any, TMB plans to take regarding Mr B and Miss Us mortgage, 
which is in arrears. However, I must remind TMB of the guidelines issued by the regulator 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions. Current guidelines say 
no-one should have their home repossessed without their agreement until after 31 January 
2021. I must also remind TMB of its duty to treat Mr B and Miss U fairly. And it should of 
course take any further guidance issued by the regulator into account. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss U 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman