DRN-3839779
The complaint
Mr T complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance, wont refund to him the money that he paid for a holiday product. Hes being 
represented in his complaint by a legal adviser.
What happened
Mr Ts representative says that Mr C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays 
Partner Finance in June 2010 to pay for his and his wifes purchase of a holiday product but 
Ive not been provided with a copy of the purchase agreement or the loan agreement.
Mr T wrote to Barclays Partner Finance in June 2020 about two loans and said that it 
appeared that the credit intermediaries recorded on his loan agreements werent permitted 
or authorised to arrange the loans and he asked it to explain its position. Barclays Partner 
Finance said that the purchase agreements that Mr T sought to challenge were dated in 
September 2009 and June 2010 so he was out of time to bring any claim in respect of the 
issues he claimed to have happened at the point of sale. 
Mr T then complained to this service and his representative wrote a complaint letter to this 
service in April 2021. It referred to agreements that Mr T and his wife had entered into in 
June 2010 and said, in summary and amongst other things, that the credit intermediary 
wasnt authorised to arrange the loan, there was a lengthy and pressurised sales 
presentation, the product was misrepresented to them, there was an unfair relationship 
between Mr T and Barclays Partner Finance, there was no evidence that a credit check was 
conducted before the loan was granted and the high interest rate was an indication of an 
unfair relationship. It also referred to a judgment from an overseas court which it said had 
found that the structure employed bv the group of companies that includes the holiday 
company was a fraud. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She said that 
allegations of misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under sections 75 and 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 are legal claims and dont constitute complaints that this 
service can consider until the claims have been put to the business responsible for 
answering them and a subsequent complaint has then been made about its response to the 
claims. She said that neither of those steps was taken by Mr T or his representative so the 
only aspect of this complaint that she could consider was about the authorisation of the 
credit broker. 
Our investigator said that Mr Ts initial complaint letter referred to two credit intermediaries 
and her own research had shown that both of them held a licence granted by the Office of 
Fair Trading at the time of sale so she concluded that the credit agreements were arranged 
by an authorised broker.
Mr Ts representative, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It has responded in detail and says, in summary and amongst other things, 
that: 
Mr Ts June 2020 letter doesnt make direct reference to sections 75 or 140A but the 
issues raised query the relationship between Barclays Partner Finance and the 
holiday company in order to identify whether the loan constituted an unfair 
relationship and was therefore unlawful and it cant be denied that Mr T intended to 
raise issues pertaining to sections 75 and 140A;
in its response to that letter, Barclays Partner Finance referred to the complaint as 
being about mis-selling of a timeshare and interpreted the issues raised by Mr T as 
including sections 75 and 140A;
the ombudsman service isnt required to follow the relevant law, guidance and 
practice but to reach an evaluative assessment of the merits of Barclays Partner 
Finances decision; and
our investigators findings are inconsistent with Mr Ts allegations about the credit 
intermediarys regulation as a credit broker so she should supply the information on 
which her finding is based.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T first raised his concerns about the authorisation of the credit intermediaries with 
Barclays Partner Finance in June 2020. I consider that Mr T was asking Barclays Partner 
Finance to explain its position about the authorisation of the credit intermediaries and I dont 
consider that his letter would properly be considered to be a complaint. There was no 
reference in that letter to the holiday products, any mis-selling or any claim under the 
Consumer Credit Act.
Barclays Partner Finances response did refer to a complaint about the alleged mis-selling of 
a timeshare and to a claim under section 75 but it said that Mr T was out of time to bring any 
claim in respect of the issues he claimed to have happened at the point of sale. The only 
issue that Mr T had raised was that it appeared that the credit intermediaries recorded on his 
loan agreements werent permitted or authorised to arrange the loans. 
This services records show that the two credit intermediaries that were identified in Mr Ts 
June 2020 letter to Barclays Partner Finance were both covered under our consumer credit 
jurisdiction in September 2009 and June 2010. They wouldnt have been covered under that 
jurisdiction if they hadnt been granted consumer credit licences by the Office of Fair 
Trading. I dont consider that its unreasonable for me to conclude, in the absence of any 
persuasive evidence to suggest otherwise, that its more likely than not that the credit 
intermediaries held the required consumer credit licences at the times that the loans were 
made to Mr T and that the loan agreements are likely to be enforceable.
I dont consider that Mr T asked Barclays Partner Finance to consider claims under sections 
75 or 140A or that Barclays Partner Finance has had a proper chance to investigate the 
claims that were made in his representatives complaint letter to this service in April 2021. 
Mr Ts letter refers to accounts for loans that were made to him in September 2009 and June 
2010 but his representatives letter and his complaint form only refer to the loan that was 
made in June 2010. Ive not been provided with copies of any of the purchase agreements or 
loan agreements or any evidence as to whether the loans have been repaid. In these circumstances, I consider that Mr Ts claims, including the claims in his 
representatives letter to this service about a lengthy and pressurised sales presentation, the 
product being misrepresented to Mr T and his wife, the unfair relationship between Mr T and 
Barclays Partner Finance, the credit checks that were conducted before the loan was 
granted, the high interest rate and the structure of the group of companies that includes the 
holiday company should first be properly made to Barclays Partner Finance. If Mr T isnt 
satisfied with its response to those claims (or if Barclays Partner Finance doesnt respond to 
the claims within eight weeks) he may then be able to make a separate complaint to this 
service about its response to those claims.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the credit intermediary for the 
loan that was made to Mr T by Barclays Partner Finance in June 2010 didnt have the 
appropriate consumer credit licence to arrange the loan. I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Barclays Partner Finance to refund to 
Mr T any of the money that hes paid under that loan agreement, to pay him any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman