DRN-3214293
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy his monthly mortgage payments increased to cover payments hed 
missed when hed understood a credit balance on his mortgage account would be used 
to make those payments.
What happened
Mr F has a repayment mortgage with Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor 
Mortgages (Topaz). When he spoke to Topaz at the end of July 2020, he found out there 
was a credit balance of around £1,332 on his mortgage account.
Topaz wouldnt repay the credit so Mr F asked them if he could use that credit balance to 
make his monthly mortgage payments (CMP) for a few months during July, August and 
September 2020. Topaz agreed but advised he make a token payment of £5 each month 
so there wouldnt be any missed payments showing on his account. Mr F did that for three 
months  July, August and September 2020  making payments and checking things over 
the phone with Topaz.
At the end of September 2020, Topaz told Mr F his CMP would increase by around £14 to 
adjust for missed payments between July and September. Mr F acknowledged hed 
deferred payment of the CMP during April, May and June, which had led to an increase in 
the CMP of around £9 from July onwards. But he didnt agree hed had an unauthorised 
payment holiday or missed payments for July, August and September as Topaz said he 
had. He disputed the increase in the CMP.
Topaz didnt uphold his complaint about what had happened, so he complained to this 
service.
Our investigator said that before Mr F had used the credit to make his CMP, it had been 
offset against his mortgage balance. When he used the credit to make his CMP, the capital 
balance of the mortgage he had to pay interest on went up, which led to the higher CMP. 
Since Mr F had benefited from not having to make the CMP for three months and, once 
hed used it, the mortgage balance had increased, our investigator didnt think it was fair to 
ask Topaz to reduce the CMP.
Our investigator felt Topaz should have explained things to Mr F better when hed asked 
about using the credit to make his CMP and noted Topaz hadnt explained clearly where 
the credit had originally come from. But they felt Topazs apology and offer of 
compensation of £150 for the inconvenience caused to Mr F was a fair way of resolving 
things, so they didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Since Mr F wasnt happy with that outcome, his complaint was passed to me to review. I 
recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Topaz have acknowledged they didnt explain things clearly to Mr F when he spoke to their 
adviser in July 2020 and afterwards. As a result, when his CMP increased after September 
2020, it came as a surprise to Mr F who understandably thought something had gone 
wrong.
I dont think Topaz explained what had gone wrong to Mr F clearly either. So, I think its 
helpful to set out what I understand happened from the information the parties have 
provided so far. Ill consider any more information the parties wish to provide before coming 
to a final decision.
Mr Fs mortgage account was credited with some small amounts received from the 
Department of Work and Pensions and a larger sum of around £1,380 was credited to 
his account in April 2018.
Topaz has explained the £1,380 credit resulted from a remediation exercise Topaz carried 
out in line with Financial Conduct Authority guidance issued in 2017 about how mortgage 
payments should be calculated when a customer had fallen into arrears. Topaz found 
theyd charged Mr F too much interest and credited his account with the overpayment hed 
made.
Topaz wrote to Mr F about the remediation in 2018. Their letter didnt say how much the 
credit to his account was. Topaz say they applied the credit to Mr Fs account rather than 
paying it to Mr F because they were funds that had previously been debited to his 
mortgage account rather than payments Mr F had made.
Topaz has explained that the credits to Mr Fs account were offset against the capital 
balance he owed. That meant, the capital balance on which he was making interest 
payments each month was lower than it would otherwise have been, and his CMP 
were therefore lower too.
When Mr F deferred his CMP in April, May and June, the capital balance of his 
mortgage increased which led to the higher CMP in July. Topaz explained this in their 
letters to Mr F dated 15 April and 27 June 2020.
When Mr F used the credit towards his CMP for the next few months, it was no longer 
offset against the capital balance of the mortgage, so the capital balance increased again, 
which led to another rise in the CMP.
Topaz told Mr F about the credit on his account when he spoke to them in July 2020. He 
says he was unaware of it until then. As Ive mentioned, Topaz had written to Mr F about 
the remediation exercise but since they didnt mention the amount he was being 
reimbursed in their letter, I can understand why he might not have been aware of it, and 
the effect it was having on the capital balance of his mortgage. Although the credits appear 
on the statement of Mr Fs account Topaz have provided, its not clear whether it showed 
on his regular mortgage statements.
Topaz have referred to the fact Mr F didnt pay the CMP, except for a nominal amount of 
£5 each month to avoid arrears showing on his account, as an un-authorised payment 
holiday and missed payments. I can understand why Mr F found that confusing. He 
thought hed agreed with Topaz hed use the credit on his account to fund the CMP for 
three months during July, August and September so he wouldnt miss any payments. As 
Ive mentioned, Topaz have acknowledged they didnt explain things clearly. And they apologised to Mr F and offered him compensation for the inconvenience he suffered as a 
result.
Mr Fs thinks the increase in his CMP is unjustified. He told Topaz although hed been laid 
off from work, he did have money available to make the payment in full at the time. Mr F 
says when Topaz wouldnt send Mr F the credit in July 2020, he felt it would be most 
useful to use it to pay his CMP. He says he did so, not because he needed another 
payment deferral, but because he was guarding against any possible financial hardship in 
the future.
Mr F told Topaz if theyd paid him the credit, he would have used it to pay the CMP. If 
Topaz had paid the credit to Mr F as hed asked, his capital balance would have gone up 
and he would have had to pay interest on a higher amount. So, his CMP would have 
increased. His position wouldnt have been materially different to the position he is in now 
the credit has been used to make the CMP and is no longer offset against the mortgage 
balance, reducing the amount interest is charged on.
If Mr F had decided to leave the credit in his mortgage account to make the CMP, he 
would have had to either agree another payment deferral with Topaz or make the CMP 
out of his own funds. If hed deferred payment, arrears would have built up and increased 
the capital balance on which he had to pay interest  so his CMP would have increased. 
If Mr F had used his own funds to pay the CMP, he would have lost the chance to use 
those funds for other purposes.
Topaz have said the credit balance had already reduced as a result of the payment 
deferral in April, May and June. If theyd paid the credit to him in July, they say he would 
have fallen into arrears. That could have resulted in legal action against him and costs 
would have been incurred for which Mr F would have been responsible under the terms of 
his mortgage. I find Topazs explanation and figures on this issue unclear and Id ask them 
to clarify their point. It seems to me that the arrears that built up as a result of the payment 
deferral would have been added to the capital balance and increased it, and thats what led 
to the higher CMP from July onwards. Having said that, I dont think it impacts Mr Fs 
overall position.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Mr Fs position is materially 
different as a result of whats happened, to the position he would have been in if the 
credit hadnt been used to make the CMP for July, August and September. But Ill 
consider any further arguments Mr F wishes to make about that before coming to my 
final decision.
If Mr F remains concerned about the level of the CMP now, he could discuss with Topaz 
the possibility of making a lump sum payment towards the capital of the mortgage to 
reduce his CMP. If hes not able to do that and is in difficulties in paying the increased 
CMP, Id encourage him to discuss things with Topaz, who should treat him positively and 
sympathetically, and to seek independent financial advice.
Mr F thinks the compensation Topaz offered him was too low. Ive thought about the impact 
their failure to explain the credit and the effect of using it to pay the CMP has had on Mr F. I 
can see Mr F was inconvenienced by Topazs failure to explain things clearly when he 
discussed things with them in July and subsequently. But I dont think his position overall 
has been materially affected. On that basis, my provisional view is that the apology and 
offer of £150 compensation was a fair way of resolving Mr Fs complaint and Id encourage 
Topaz to make that payment to Mr F if he wishes to accept it now.Bearing everything in mind, I dont intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint as I think Topazs 
apology and offer of compensation made before Mr F brought his complaint to this service 
were a fair way of resolving his complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Developments
Mr F made some comments on my provisional decision. He said the payment deferral 
(otherwise known as a payment holiday) in April, May and June was agreed with Topaz in 
line with Financial Conduct Authority guidance about supporting customers during the 
coronavirus pandemic. So, the credit on his account shouldnt have been affected, only the 
repayment balance.
Mr F said he didnt receive Topazs letter about the remediation in 2018 and wasnt aware of 
it until he spoke to Topaz in July 2020. He queried why Topaz didnt tell him the possible 
consequences of paying the credit to him in July and feels strongly Topaz failed to explain 
things clearly to him overall.
Topaz agreed with my provisional decision. They clarified that the credit on the account in 
July 2020 was approximately £1,300, and if theyd paid that to Mr F and he then only paid 
£5.00 for July, August and September 2020, the account would have fallen into arrears. No 
payment was expected when the payment deferral was in place from April to July 2020, so 
no arrears accrued. However, interest continued to accrue as Topaz explained in their letter 
dated 15 April 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Fs strength of feeling about what happened. But having thought carefully 
about the comments the parties have made in response to my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded to change my mind about Mr Fs complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Fs said he didnt receive Topazs 2018 letter about the remediation, and 
he wasnt aware of the credit until July 2020. But I dont think that materially affects things. 
Mr F will have benefited from the credit being applied to the capital balance of his mortgage 
and reducing the interest he paid. And any distress and inconvenience he suffered came 
once hed been told about the credit in July 2020.
Topazs clarification of what happened during the pandemic deferral period is in line with 
FCA guidance about what should have happened. Arrears didnt accrue but interest 
continued to be charged. And the unpaid CMP were added to the balance of the mortgage to 
be repaid over the remaining term.
I still think Topazs apology and offer of compensation were a fair way of resolving Mr Fs 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. So, whilst I understand it 
will be disappointing for Mr F, for the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision, I 
dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman