DRN-4006791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has dealt with their claim 
for an escape of water at a property they own.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr and Mrs Gs buy to let property suffered an escape 
of water from a pipe beneath the wash basin in an upstairs bathroom. This caused damage 
to the bathroom as well as the kitchen and lounge area below.
AXA accepted the claim and appointed a surveyor and drying company. Some drying works 
were completed but Mr and Mrs G say they werent adequate as no drying equipment was 
set up in the bathroom  which was the location of the source of the leak. And since then, 
Mr and Mrs G say there hasnt been any progress with the claim. Mr and Mrs G eventually 
funded their own surveyors report on the condition of their property, and whether it had been 
adequately dried, as well as some temporary repairs to ensure the property remained 
habitable for their tenants.
Our investigator requested comments from AXA regarding the costs incurred by 
Mr and Mrs G and the fact that their surveyors report suggested the property wasnt dry. He 
also requested an update on the status of their claim. AXA didnt respond to this information 
request, or a subsequent chaser. So, our investigator issued his assessment of the 
complaint based on the limited information he did have.
Our investigator said he thought AXA should pay Mr and Mrs G £250 compensation for its 
poor handling of the claim up to this point and that it should reimburse them the costs theyd 
incurred for the temporary repairs they carried out, plus interest. In order to progress the 
claim, he said AXA should carry out a further inspection of the property to establish whether 
moisture remained as a result of the claim, before drying it (if required) and drawing up a 
schedule of repairs to either carry out the repairs or pay Mr and Mrs G a cash settlement.
AXA didnt respond to our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should point out that its disappointing that AXA hasnt provided a response to our 
investigators multiple information requests or assessment of the case. This means the case 
has had to be passed to me for a final decision, which potentially could have been avoided if 
AXA had engaged with us. The lack of response or engagement from AXA ultimately means 
their customer and insurance policyholder has needed to go through all stages of our 
process, only due to AXAs lack of response.
That said, Im satisfied I have enough information on file to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome on this complaint. So, Im moving ahead with my final decision based on the 
information we have available.
AXA appointed a surveyor to deal with Mr and Mrs Gs claim, who in turn appointed a drying 
specialist. Ive reviewed the interim report and incomplete drying certificate provided by the 
drying specialist. These suggest that they believed some of the water damage was unrelated 
to the claim. The interim report highlights the poor condition of the sealant around the bath to 
be the most likely cause of damp and mould below the bath. And the drying certificate 
mentions a lack of DPM at the property  although its not clear which damage it is 
suggesting has resulted from this.
I dont think it would necessarily be unreasonable for AXA to refuse to deal with a pre-
existing wear and tear issue, or damage which resulted from it, as this is specifically 
excluded under the policy terms. But I cant see that AXA put these issues to Mr and Mrs G, 
or explained that because of these issues, it felt it was reasonable not to fully dry the 
property or proceed with settling the claim. So, Mr and Mrs G have been left in a period of 
uncertainty and feeling that they needed to take action to ensure the property was habitable 
for their tenants, and this included appointing their own surveyor to review the drying works 
already undertaken by AXA. Given the lack of clear communication from AXA, I dont think 
the actions they took here were unreasonable.
As I say, Mr and Mrs G appointed their own surveyor to review the quality of the drying 
works. Their surveyor removed additional flooring within the bathroom and noted a clear 
path of moisture from the source of the water leak to the area surrounding the bath up to the 
inner face of the external gable wall. He said this area remained saturated and badly 
affected with black mould as a result of not being exposed or dried. 
Given that Mr and Mrs Gs surveyor identified a clear link between the escape of water 
covered under their claim and the area of damage which AXAs drying specialist seemingly 
believed to be unrelated, Im persuaded on balance that the damage has been at least partly 
caused by that escape of water. I therefore consider that it was unreasonable of AXA to not 
fully dry that area, before reaching a decision on which damage, if any, could be fairly 
excluded.
It is possible that there was some pre-existing damage as a result of the sealant issues 
identified by AXAs drying specialist  which wouldnt be covered under the policy. But given 
the extent of the damage caused by the escape of water to the same area  which has been 
left to worsen due to AXAs (in my view) incorrect decision to limit the scope of the drying 
works, I think its unlikely that AXA will be able to differentiate between claim related and 
non-claim related damage at this stage.
That said, I agree with our investigator that a further inspection will be necessary to establish 
what further drying works remain to be completed, before any schedule of repairs can be 
drawn up. So, if AXA is able to clearly differentiate between damage caused by the escape 
of water and subsequent delays, and damage caused by the pre-existing sealant issue, then 
I think it can fairly exclude the latter damage. But following this inspection, AXA must 
promptly settle Mr and Mrs G claim in line with the terms and conditions of their policy.Taking into account the significant delays to the claim to this point, I think it was reasonable 
for Mr and Mrs G to arrange their own surveyor to review the drying works, and to carry out 
the temporary repairs which they did. And given the information currently available, on the 
balance of probabilities, I consider that the surveyors report supports Mr and Mrs Gs 
concerns about the drying, and these repairs were most likely required as a result of the 
escape of water covered by this claim. So, I think AXA should reimburse the costs 
Mr and Mrs G have incurred in doing this and pay 8% simple interest on that amount from 
the date(s) they were out of pocket to the date they are reimbursed, to compensate them for 
being deprived of the use of that money for other purposes.
In addition, given the delays and poor communication to this point along with AXAs failure to 
properly dry the property, I think Mr and Mrs G have been unnecessarily impacted by AXAs 
failings. So, I think AXA should pay them £250 to fairly compensate them for this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
Promptly arrange a further inspection of Mr and Mrs Gs property to establish where 
further drying is required as a result of the claim. Following this, it should settle 
Mr and Mrs Gs claim in line with the terms and conditions of their policy.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs G for the temporary repairs they had carried out, including the 
surveyors report, plus 8% simple interest* from the date(s) they were out of pocket to 
the date they are reimbursed.
Pay Mr and Mrs G £250 compensation for the impact of their poor handling of their 
claim up to this point.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman