DRN-1283660
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that TransferWise Ltd failed to honour its guarantee that his money transfer 
would be carried out at a particular rate, which resulted in him losing over £600.
 
What happened
On a Friday in March 2019 Mr F transferred a large sum of money from an account in a 
foreign currency to his sterling account. TransferWise guaranteed the exchange rate for one 
business day; the weekend did not count as business days. The transfer was completed on 
the following Monday, but the money was converted at a less favourable exchange rate, 
causing Mr F a loss of over £600.
When Mr F complained, TransferWise told him that it had not received the money from the 
sending bank until more than 24 hours after Mr F set up the transfer (not counting the 
weekend). It said its terms and conditions, and the FAQ page on its website, had made it 
clear that if the money was not received within 24 hours then it would be converted at the 
mid-market rate, which might be more favourable or less favourable than the guaranteed 
rate  but that the transfer could take one to two business days. It added that it had been 
open to Mr F to cancel the transfer at any time before the money was converted  even after 
the guarantee had expired.
Mr F did not accept that explanation, for two reasons. Firstly, he had not seen evidence that 
the money had not been received in time. Secondly, he said the guarantee was misleading, 
because it suggested that the money would definitely be converted at the guaranteed rate, 
but that this might not actually happen because the transfer could take longer than 24 hours. 
He says that TransferWise shouldnt make promises it might not be able to keep. So he 
brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint, for the reasons given by TransferWise. Mr F 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Fs argument about the guarantee being misleading, but I dont agree with it, 
because I think TransferWises website makes it clear that a transfer might take more than 
24 hours, while the exchange rate is only guaranteed for 24 hours. The website explains that 
after 24 hours, if the money hasnt been converted then it will be converted at a floating rate 
(see https://transferwise.com/guaranteed-rate-conditions at paragraph 1.2(c), and also https://transferwise.com/help/13/understanding-fees-and-rates/2978017/what-if-i-miss-my-
guaranteed-rate ).
TransferWise says, and I accept, that nearly 97 per cent of transfers are carried out within 24 
hours. I dont think the guarantee says or implies that 100 per cent of transfers will be carried 
out within 24 hours. It makes it clear that a transfer might sometimes take longer than that, 
and that the money wont be converted at the guaranteed rate once the guarantee has 
expired. If a customer doesnt want to take the risk that the floating rate might be less 
favourable than the guaranteed rate, then he can cancel the transfer at any time before the 
money is converted, before or after the 24 hours have elapsed.
There are two stages which a customer has to complete to transfer money to TransferWise. 
First, they have to set up the transfer on TransferWises website, at which point 
TransferWise will provide a unique reference number. That begins the 24 hour guarantee 
period. Second, the customer has to instruct the bank which holds the funds  a third party  
to transfer the money to TransferWises account, using the reference number which was 
provided in the first stage. TransferWises terms and conditions state that they are not 
responsible for any delay caused by the sending bank.
It is not in dispute that Mr F completed the first stage on the Friday at 00:06 GMT. The next 
business day was Monday, and so the 24 hour guarantee period expired at 00:06 on 
Monday. I think that the terms and conditions make it clear that TransferWise must receive 
the money by then  its not enough just to send the money by then, which is the second 
stage. So the website says For this reason, its usually best to get your money to us as soon 
as possible.
The sending bank has provided a letter stating that it credited the money to an account with 
another company owned by TransferWise at 00:10 on the Monday. I have no reason to 
doubt what that letter says, and the same time and date appears in TransferWises own 
records. That was already too late, but TransferWise received the money about five hours 
after that, and then converted it to sterling two minutes later, at 05:17. So I find that 
TransferWise didnt have to convert the money at the guaranteed rate, because it had 
expired.
I dont know for certain when Mr F completed the second stage, although I have noted that 
he told TransferWise he had instructed his bank to send the money at 13:14 on the Friday, 
so I infer that it was probably then or just before. But nothing turns on when that was, 
because that is not when the guaranteed rate period begins or ends.
 
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman