DRN-4522565
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) is responsible for poor service in 
connection with her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the complaint is a small car, first registered in 2009.
For several years, Mrs W had a comprehensive policy with Tesco.
Mrs W acquired the car in about 2016 and put it on the policy.
She renewed the policy for the year from early August 2022. The premium for the year was 
going to be about £200.00 plus interest for paying by instalments.
Mrs W had nine years no-claims discount (NCD). She paid for the optional extra of a 
protected NCD, so that a single claim in the policy year wouldnt affect her NCD.
Mrs W didnt pay for the optional extra of breakdown cover.
Unfortunately in early February 2023, Mrs W swerved and hit a roundabout. Her car suffered 
damage to a tyre and a wheel. She contacted Tesco. It arranged for a roadside assistance 
company to recover her damaged car to her home.
Mrs W bought a replacement wheel and a replacement tyre.
About ten days after the incident, Mrs W told Tesco that she didnt want to make a claim on 
her policy. Tesco said that it had incurred the cost of the recovery. But it gave Mrs W the 
option to reimburse that cost  in which case it would record the incident for information 
only.
By a letter dated 20 February 2023, Tesco said that when it received the invoice from the 
roadside assistance company, it would contact Mrs W.
By 28 March 2023, Tesco had received and paid the roadside assistance companys invoice 
for £130.08. Tesco didnt tell Mrs W or send her the invoice. So she didnt reimburse it.
Mrs W changed her vehicle in May 2023 and told Tesco. Tesco asked her to pay an 
additional premium. Tesco sent her documents including one that recorded the February 
2023 incident as a fault claim against her. Mrs W contacted Tesco to query that.
By a letter dated early June 2023, Tesco said that if Mrs W reimbursed the £130.08, then it 
would close the case as a non-fault incident, otherwise it would close the case as a fault 
accident.
Mrs W didnt pay the £130.08.
By mid-June 2023, Mrs W had complained to Tesco that it had recorded a fault claim against 
her. By a final response dated mid-June 2023, Tesco turned down the complaint. 
Mrs W brought her complaint to us in early July 2023.
For the year from early August 2023, Mrs W renewed her policy at a higher premium.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
Tesco was responsible for unreasonable and avoidable delay in notifying Mrs W upon the 
receipt of the invoice as promised. This caused an unreasonable and avoidable delay in the 
opportunity for Mrs W to reimburse Tesco so that it wouldve recorded the claim as 
notification only. This caused her trouble, upset and loss of expectation, the investigator 
said.
The investigator recommended that Tesco should:
1. award Mrs W £100.00 as compensation for the distress, inconvenience and loss of 
expectation it caused her; and
2. record the incident as notification only on any internal and external databases once 
Mrs W pays the £130.08;
3. re-rate the policy considering the claim as notification only rather than fault and 
refund Mrs W any difference in premiums she may have paid If the claim being left 
open as fault has impacted Mrs Ws policy premiums (following her updating her 
existing policy after changing her vehicle in May and following her policy renewal in 
August). But if Mrs W doesnt pay the invoice, then Tesco dont have to do this.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs W    
and to Tesco on 13 December 2023. I summarise my findings:
Mrs W implied that she is not willing to make the payment of the £130.08 which was 
the condition for the investigators recommendations of recording the incident as 
notification only and of refunding the effect of the fault claim on the premium 
increases in May and August 2023.
Tescos delay from February or March 2023 to early June 2023 caused Mrs W 
unnecessary upset and inconvenience when she read of the fault claim in her change 
of vehicle documents, and again when she read the letter of early June 2023. 
Subject to any further information either from Mrs W or from Tesco, my provisional decision 
was to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
1. pay Mrs W £100.00 for distress and inconvenience; and
2. provided that Mrs W pays Tesco £130.08 on or before 1 February 2024:
2.1 amend the internal and external records of the incident in February 2023 to 
information only; and
2.2 adjust accordingly Mrs W premiums for the policy for the period from May 2023 to 
August 2024; and
2.3 refund any overpayments of premium to Mrs W.Mrs W and Tesco each accepted the provisional decision. So I see no reason to change my 
view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, the incident and the damage were bound to cause Mrs W some upset and 
inconvenience. She had been involved in an accident rather than a breakdown. In any event, 
she ought reasonably to have known that Tesco hadnt provided breakdown insurance to 
her. 
She called Tesco asking for help. That could only be under her motor insurance. She was, in 
my view, making a claim on the policy.
Tesco instructed its roadside assistance company. So it incurred a liability to make an outlay 
to that company.
In such circumstances, its common practice for the insurer to record an open claim or a fault 
claim against its policyholder, unless and until the insurer establishes that it has no net 
outlay (typically because the insurer recovers its outlay from a third party, but sometimes 
because the policyholder reimburses the insurer).
From the call recordings and letters in February 2023, Im satisfied that Tesco explained, 
and Mrs W understood, that if she reimbursed its outlay, it would record the incident for 
information only. Tesco promised to contact Mrs W when it received the invoice from the 
roadside assistance company.
Tesco mustve received the invoice in February or March 2023. So I dont condone its failure 
to contact Mrs W.
However, I keep in mind the common practice and Mrs Ws continuing opportunity to 
reimburse Tesco. So I dont find that Tesco treated Mrs W unfairly by recording a fault claim 
against her.
I find it likely that her new car attracted a higher premium. I havent seen enough evidence of 
the amount of the increased premium or any effect of the fault claim at the time of the 
change of vehicle in May 2023.
I accept Mrs Ws view that her contact about the increased premium caused Tesco to 
contact her about the £130.08. I accept that she was upset to be reminded about this four 
months after the incident.
Nevertheless, Tescos letter wasnt a demand for payment. Rather, it confirmed that Mrs W 
still had the opportunity if she wished to pay the £130.08 to change the record from a fault 
claim to information only. I dont find that unfair. And I dont consider that Tescos delay had 
changed that opportunity.
Mrs W chose not to reimburse the £130.08 before she renewed the policy in August 2023. I 
havent seen enough evidence of the amount of the increased premium or the extent to 
which it was the effect of the fault claim or of other factors such as general price inflation.The investigators opinion was as Ive summarised above. Apart from the £100.00 
compensation, the recommendation was subject to Mrs W paying the £130.08.
In response to the investigators opinion, Mrs W said the following:
I'm happy with the outcome and appreciate your help to get me some compensation.
I feel that £100 is fair and will help cover some of the costs for the wheel & tyre and 
also any increase in premiums. By the time it comes round to renewal in 2024 the 
fault claim on my policy will have been on there for 18 months and may only have a 
small impact next year!
Ive thought carefully about that. I consider that Mrs W implies that she is not willing to make 
the payment of the £130.08 which was the condition for the investigators recommendations 
of recording the incident as notification only and of refunding the effect of the fault claim on 
the premium increases in May and August 2023.
Mrs Ws response will reinforce Tescos view that Mrs W never intended to reimburse the 
£130.08.
Nevertheless, I consider that Tescos delay from February or March 2023 to early June 2023 
caused Mrs W unnecessary upset and inconvenience when she read of the fault claim in her 
change of vehicle documents, and again when she read the letter of early June 2023.
Putting things right
Overall, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Tesco to:
1. pay Mrs W £100.00 for distress and inconvenience; and
2. provided that Mrs W pays Tesco £130.08 on or before 1 February 2024:
2.1 amend the internal and external records of the incident in February 2023 to 
information only; and
2.2 adjust accordingly Mrs W premiums for the policy for the period from May 2023 to 
August 2024; and
2.3 refund any overpayments of premium to Mrs W.
Ive thought about directing Tesco to pay interest at our usual rate on any such 
overpayments. However, I keep in mind the following factors:
Mrs W hasnt paid Tesco the £130.08.
Such payment wouldve reversed any overpayment of premium sooner.
Mrs W hasnt said shes willing to pay the £130.08.
So I wont direct Tesco to pay interest to Mrs W.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
1. pay Mrs W £100.00 for distress and inconvenience; and
2. provided that Mrs W pays Tesco £130.08 on or before 1 February 2024:2.1 amend the internal and external records of the incident in February 2023 to 
information only; and
2.2 adjust accordingly Mrs W premiums for the policy for the period from May 2023 to 
August 2024; and
2.3 refund any overpayments of premium to Mrs W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman