DRN-4205088
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Leeds Building Society didnt send the original property title deeds to 
her upon the redemption of her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs D had a mortgage with Leeds Building Society between 2009 and 2022. When Mrs D 
redeemed this mortgage in October 2022 she paid a redemption fee of £199  this included 
a cost of £65 to release the documents Leeds Building Society held in relation to her 
property and the legal charge.
Mrs D was expecting to be provided with her propertys original title deeds, but she says the 
package from Leeds Building Society instead only contained the following:
A copy of the Land Registry Title Information which showed among other things 
Leeds Building Societys charge on the property.
A letter date 12 November 2009 from Leeds Building Society to Mrs Ds solicitor 
requesting the title deeds.
The mortgage deeds.
When Mrs D contacted Leeds Building Society about this, it said that it had sent her all the 
documentation it held. Mrs D complained that Leeds Building Society had either lost her 
original title deeds or that it had failed to inform her that it never received these, and now she 
cant locate them.
When Mrs D complained to our service the investigator didnt uphold her complaint. In 
summary the investigator said that Leeds Building Society had sent Mrs D all the documents 
that it held. And that since October 2003 it has been normal practice for title deeds to be 
held electronically at HM Land Registry. So, they didnt think Leeds Building Society had 
made an error in only using, storing, and returning a copy of the registered title rather than 
the original title deeds.
Mrs D didnt agree, she said she shouldnt have been charged for the release of something 
she hasnt received, and that she thinks the act of charging her for the release of the title 
deeds confirms Leeds Building Society did have them. Mrs D has also said that without 
knowing her original title deeds documentation is safe, shes worried someone else may be 
able to commit fraud and sell her property. And that shes now lost the opportunity to trace 
them via the solicitors she used in 2009.
The matter was passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman. I asked Leeds Building 
Society for some further information. It provided a copy of the telephone calls between 
Leeds Building Society and Mrs D discussing this matter, and confirmed the fee charged 
was set out on the mortgage offer in 2009. Leeds Building Society also provided the letter it 
received from Mrs Ds solicitor (dated 13 November 2009) in response to its letter of 
12 November 2009. This letter says, Please find enclosed the latest title information 
document.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 June 2023 explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint.  In summary I explained that I thought it was more likely than not that 
Leeds Building Society had not received or held the original title deeds Mrs D wanted. I 
didnt think Leeds Building Society had done anything wrong by registering its charge 
electronically using what it was provided with.
Mrs D didnt agree, she said Leeds Building Society ought to have told her it didnt receive 
the original title deeds documentation and that this has put her in a position whereby she 
cant obtain them. She is concerned a third party has her original title deeds and may use 
them to sell her house without her knowledge. 
Leeds Building Society didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
Theres no evidence that Leeds Building Society ever held or lost the original title 
deeds for Mrs Ds property.
Electronic registration came into force in October 2003 and so the original 
documentation wasnt needed by Leeds Building Society in 2009. By 2009 it was 
common for mortgage providers to register their legal charges electronically.
Theres no reference in Mrs Ds solicitors letter dated 13 November 2009 to the 
original title deeds being enclosed. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not 
that Mrs Ds solicitor provided a copy of the Land Registry Title Information or other 
information Leeds Building Society would have needed to register the charge 
electronically with HM Land Registry.
Leeds Building Society hasnt done anything wrong in accepting what was provided 
rather than the original paper title deed, as it appears to have been sufficient for it to 
register its charge correctly. It wasnt obliged to highlight to Mrs D that it hadnt 
received the original documentation as this wouldnt have been unusual.
Leeds Building Society has provided Mrs D with all the paper documentation it stored 
in relation to her property via a third party. Leeds Building Society has also explained 
that it refers to the documents pack it holds for a customer as the title deeds but that 
its staff dont open the package to see whats contained before returning it to the 
customer.
Mrs Ds mortgage offer from April 2009 contained a Redemption Fee of £199. This 
comprised of a mortgage exit fee of £134 and a fee for dispatching the title deeds / 
sealing fee of £65 as detailed on Mrs Ds redemption statement. A sealing fee 
normally covers the administrative process involved in sending a customer their 
documentation and closing the mortgage account. I dont agree that this confirms 
Leeds Building Society held Mrs Ds original title deeds, rather this is standard 
wording used to describe an administrative process. Mrs D agreed to this fee at the 
outset and I cant see that its been applied incorrectly or unfairly in the 
circumstances. If Mrs D thinks there is something inherently unfair about the amount Leeds Building Society charges for this process then this is a new issue that she 
would need to raise separately  I note that given the time thats passed since the 
mortgage began, it may not be something that our service can consider.
In the calls provided, Leeds Building Society staff refer to having an official copy of 
the register of title. Mrs D is told the official copy is the title deed that it has been 
referring to and that if she has part A, B and C of the official copy of the register of 
title then she has everything. With this in mind, I dont think Mrs D has been given 
incorrect information, but I do appreciate this has been confusing for her as she was 
expecting the original title deeds in the format that was commonplace in the past 
which would have been different.
Since October 2003 it has been normal practice for title deeds to be scanned, 
registered, and destroyed. HM Land Registry has confirmed to Mrs D that she 
doesnt need to hold the title deeds to prove she is the owner, as it holds details of all 
registered land or property electronically, known as the title register and title plan.
I understand Mrs D is concerned about fraud and that a third party may have 
obtained the original title deeds for her property. However, I have seen no evidence 
to suggest this has happened or been attempted. I appreciate Mrs D is still 
concerned about what may happen in the future, but as Ive explained Leeds Building 
Society wasnt obliged to inform Mrs D that it didnt receive the original title deeds 
paperwork and so it isnt responsible for the stress or inconvenience not having these 
has caused her.
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman