DRN-3770418
Complaint
Mrs O has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
Mrs O applied for a loan of £400 with L2G in September 2021. One of our adjudicators 
reviewed what Mrs O and L2G had told us. And he thought that L2G hadnt lent 
irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint. Mrs O disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Os complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs O could 
afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mrs O with a loan for £400 in September 2021. It had an APR of 769.9% and 
was to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £82.22, which meant the total amount to be repaid 
was £1,469.96. 
L2G says it agreed to Mrs Os application after she provided details of her monthly income 
and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried 
out on Mrs O. The information Mrs O provided about her income and expenditure showed 
shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. But it, in any 
event, adjusted Mrs Os declaration to account for what its verification checks showed and 
and this left enough for Mrs O to be able to make her payments. L2G says, in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mrs O has said she was in 
financial difficulty and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs O and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Mrs Os first loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest Mrs O was 
asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what it 
was told.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing anything too
alarming (there was some adverse information but it was historic and Mrs Os more recent 
credit history was much more stable), Mrs Os lack of any previous lending with L2G, as well 
as the relatively low monthly repayments, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to rely on 
the payments being affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to be. 
I accept that Mrs Os actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information gathered 
and Im sorry to hear that Mrs O might have struggled to make her payments. I know that 
Mrs O says that she lost her partners income at this time. But L2G was told this and it cant 
reasonably have known this either. Equally, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mrs O - it carried out proportionate 
checks even though its looks like the information it was provided with may not have told the 
whole story. 
L2G reasonably relied on this information and given the amount of the repayments involved 
and its lack of previous history with Mrs O, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to 
provide this loan.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs O. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint, I would remind L2G of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance should Mrs O be experiencing difficulty and it choose to collect 
payments from her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman