DRN-3667403
The complaint
Mr W complains that ReAssure Limited sent him a letter referring to a joint policy holder for a 
life assurance policy that was solely in his name.
What happened
The letter referred to in this complaint was dated 20 December 2016. It said Mr Ws policy 
was due to mature the following month. It also said he needed to complete a payment 
release form that was included with the letter to receive what he was owed from the policy. 
The letter also named a joint policy holder and said theyd been sent the release form too. 
ReAssure say they saw this mistake at the time, and called Mr W a few days later  on 
23 December 2016  to apologise. They say they confirmed no documents about Mr Ws 
policy had been sent to the other person named in the letter. 
Mr W complained. It seems his unhappiness about the mistake meant he didnt tell 
ReAssure what to do with his money when the policy matured. Part of Mr Ws complaint is 
that ReAssure should have done more to prompt him for an instruction. 
ReAssure responded to the complaint and sent Mr W £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by the mistake in the 2016 letter. But they didnt feel they were 
responsible for any delay giving Mr W his money. This didnt resolve Mr Ws complaint, so 
the case continued with us.
Our investigator explained why they felt ReAssure had done enough to put things right in this 
case. Mr W didnt agree with that view, so the case has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find ReAssure have done enough to put this matter right. So I wont be 
directing them to take any further action to resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
While I can see the letter in 2016 did mistakenly name a joint policy holder, ReAssures 
apology three days later sounds like it put that right. Ive seen no evidence of any contact by 
ReAssure beyond Mr W about his policy. Nor can I see the name on any of the other details 
for Mr Ws policy. Nor can I see the mistake harmed the value of Mr Ws policy. 
While I appreciate Mr W was upset by the mistake, I find the apology in 2016 was enough to 
acknowledge that. I wouldnt personally have recommended any financial compensation for 
that element of the issue. But I can see ReAssure have paid Mr W £100 in compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. Im satisfied they dont need to do any more than that here. 
Aside from the mistake with the name, the 2016 letter did enough to make clear that Mr Ws 
policy was due to mature the following month. It also gave Mr W the form he needed to 
complete to receive the policys proceeds. 
So I find ReAssure did enough to give Mr W everything he needed in order to receive his 
money without delay. And I find it likely that if the completed forms had been returned to 
them, ReAssure would have made the necessary payment to Mr W shortly afterwards. It 
follows that I dont find ReAssure responsible for the delay giving Mr W what he was owed 
when the policy matured in 2017. 
So although I can see ReAssure made a mistake in 2016, Im not upholding this complaint 
because theres nothing further they need to do to put things right. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman