DRN-3418390
The complaint
Mr P says Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, has treated him unfairly in relation 
to a transaction on his credit card which paid for accommodation abroad.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr P used his Virgin Money credit card (Virgin for short) to make a part 
payment for accommodation abroad for a large family group. The accommodation was to be 
occupied during August 2020. He paid Firm H who had provided information about 
availability and rates for the accommodation on its website. Mr P paid £8006.20 as part 
payment for the accommodation to Firm H, and this was allocated to Mr Ps credit card 
account and the accommodation was booked with a separate company who provided 
accommodation (the Supplier).
Mr P had booked flights separately and in 2020 he received notification that his flights had 
been cancelled due to the pandemic. Mr P says that he couldnt travel to the accommodation 
due to the pandemic rules in place both at home in the UK and in the country where the 
accommodation was. Mr P complained to the Supplier and it offered a credit voucher for 
future use. Mr P says hes declined this because he wanted his money back. He complained 
to Firm H, but it made clear his agreement was with the Supplier for the accommodation and 
not it.
So he took his dispute to Virgin to see if it could help. Virgin says it considered the matter 
and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund him the cost of the accommodation. So 
Mr P, still unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Virgin didnt have to do anymore. And Mr P remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P used his Virgin credit card to pay Firm H for the accommodation. This means Virgin 
has certain responsibilities to Mr P which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary in certain circumstances Section 
75 has the effect of allowing Mr P to hold Virgin liable for breaches of contract, or 
misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. Again without going into a large 
amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide 
what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is said which 
is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment.
Also Mr Ps Virgin credit card is part of a card network which is operated by another 
company. And this network has rules which includes giving Virgin an avenue for card 
transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Virgin and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr P fairly. This decision isnt about Firm H or the 
Supplier, neither of whom are parties to this decision and neither of which are within this 
Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could Virgin challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr P does 
here, Virgin can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr P doesnt dispute that he 
used his Virgin credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, date, or any other details 
about the transaction itself. So I dont think Virgin couldve challenged the payment on the 
basis Mr P didnt properly authorise the transaction, given what Ive just set out.
Virgin is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Virgin considered what Mr P had told it about what happened and considered the 
Chargeback scheme rules. It notes that under the accommodation agreement made there 
wasnt an option for Mr P to get his money back if he didnt travel or he cancelled. It also 
noted that a credit voucher had been offered despite that there was no requirement for the 
Supplier to do so under the terms and conditions agreed. And it noted that the Supplier had 
refused to make a refund. So it says it decided not to raise a Chargeback as it didnt 
consider there was a reasonable prospect of success.
Having considered the matter and the circumstances here I dont think Mr P has lost out 
here because Virgin didnt raise a Chargeback, as I think, on balance, such a Chargeback 
was unlikely to succeed. I say this because its clear that the Supplier had already refused to 
refund the transaction and had Virgin raised a Chargeback I think the refund request would 
have been refused again for the same reasons. Im satisfied on balance that the 
accommodation was available. And although Mr P couldnt get there because his flights 
were cancelled and he may not have been allowed into the country where the 
accommodation is, neither of these issues are the Suppliers fault or responsibility. It was 
only responsible for supplying the accommodation and Im satisfied on balance it was 
available. So I dont think Mr P has lost out because Virgin didnt raise a Chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Ps claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Mr P) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods or Services (the Supplier) as well as with the 
credit provider (the Creditor-Virgin). And this is the crux of the complaint here because DCS 
has to be established in order for Virgin to be responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation. Mr P says that the DCS relationship is in place so Virgin can be held 
liable for any breach of contract by the Supplier.
The Supplier was due to supply Mr P with the accommodation, but it wasnt who he paid with 
his credit card. He paid Firm H. Mr P says he wasnt aware of this issue until some-time after 
the purchase. Firm H sets out in its terms and conditions that (in summary):
It does not own or manage, nor can it contract for, any vacation rental property listed 
on its websites.
That its websites provide an on-line marketplace to allow those with properties to rent 
to advertise on the website to offer for rent a specific vacation or short-term rental 
property to potential renters or renters.
That it is not a party to any rental or other agreement between users of its website.
And these are the terms Mr P agreed to when using its service. So its clear that by using the 
site Mr P accepted Firm Hs terms as set out in the terms and conditions of the agreement 
entered into. 
However Mr P paid Firm H (not the Supplier) but the issues Mr P said were suffered were 
with the Supplier as it was the Supplier who wouldnt give him his money back. So clearly 
there are four parties here namely Mr P, the Supplier, Firm H and Virgin. So Im not 
persuaded that DCS is in place here with regard to the services provided by the Supplier. It 
is in place between Firm H, Mr P and Virgin, but I dont see any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by Firm H here in relation to the services it provided. After all it introduced 
Mr P to the Supplier and provided booking services which he used successfully to book the 
accommodation. 
And as for the services provided by the Supplier (the supply of the accommodation), there 
are four parties here as Ive described. So Im not satisfied this meets the criteria for DCS as 
set out in the CCA. And accordingly Virgin cannot be held responsible for any breach or 
misrepresentation made by the Supplier here. So Mr Ps complaint is unsuccessful. 
For completeness I shall now deal with Mr Ps arguments. Mr P questions whether the 
accommodation was actually available. This Service has seen evidence showing that at the 
time of when the accommodation was due to be occupied by Mr P (and family) that such 
rental of accommodation was allowed in that location. Mr P argues that he couldnt get to the 
accommodation and the country may not have let him and his family through its border. This 
may well be the case. But the Supplier only had to provide the accommodation agreed to 
fulfil its side of the contract as per the terms agreed. It wasnt responsible for either Mr Ps 
travel arrangements or his being able to enter the country.
Mr P points to the CMA guidance around package travel. But Mr Ps arrangements dont 
constitute a package holiday under its terms, as the different elements of his arrangements 
were purchased separately. And in this case this transaction only paid towards 
accommodation. So I dont think this guidance makes a difference here.
Mr P points to other cases where credit providers have paid out in similar circumstances. 
This may well be the case. And consumers who purchase package holidays or enter into 
arrangements where DCS is made out have far greater likelihood of recouping losses from 
credit providers through the enhanced protections available in those situations. But this 
service only looks at the individual merits of individual cases and Im satisfied here that 
Virgin hasnt treated Mr P unfairly in these particular circumstances.
Mr P has suggested his contract was frustrated. I take this to mean within the legal meaning 
of frustration of contract. The Courts have always been very clear that contracts can only be 
considered to have been frustrated where neither party could fulfil their obligations under the contract agreed for reasons not dealt with within the contract (including where terms are 
explicit or implied). But this isnt the case here. Im satisfied on balance that the 
accommodation was available to be occupied during the dates Mr P booked for. So the 
Supplier fulfilled their part of the deal. But this argument isnt persuasive in any case 
because Virgin can only be liable if the criteria under the CCA are made out. And Im not 
persuaded DCS is made out here for the reasons given.
Mr P also argues that even if he had been able to travel and had been able to get through 
the relevant countries borders he would not have enjoyed the accommodation to the full 
extent due to the rules in place locally due to the pandemic. This also maybe the case. But 
the Supplier was only responsible for providing the accommodation services agreed. It 
wasnt responsible for providing anything else. And Im satisfied the accommodation was 
available. And as Mr P didnt occupy the accommodation Mr P isnt in a position to point to 
any failings with the accommodation as he simply doesnt know whether what was due to be 
provided was actually provided as he wasnt there at the relevant time. And the fact that he 
couldnt attend wasnt the Suppliers fault. And even in the unlikely event he could show 
there had been a breach here MBNA still wouldnt be responsible under S75 because DCS 
hasnt been made out.
It should also be remembered that the only reason Virgin is potentially liable is due to this 
legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then Virgin wouldnt have such 
potential liability for the accommodation (it would have obligations around Chargeback but 
that isnt nearly as extensive in terms of protection to the consumer). So it is key that if I am 
to hold Virgin liable, the tests required under the CCA must be met including DCS. And Im 
satisfied it isnt made out here.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr P wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Ps avenues for recouping these significant funds spent here will be 
significantly limited. But this does not mean that Virgin has done anything wrong in dealing 
with the issues arising from this transaction.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr P has said, Im not persuaded 
Virgin has treated Mr P unfairly. So I dont think Virgin hasnt done anything wrong here 
which needs remedy. And as a consequence Ive decided that Mr Ps complaint shouldnt 
succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc, 
trading as Virgin Money. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman