DRN-4066338
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) has failed to refund over £7,200 he lost as 
part of an investment scam.
What happened
Mr M says he fell victim to an investment scam with a fraudulent trader Ironbits in 
April 2021. He received a cold call from the scammer where they discussed an investment 
opportunity. Mr M decided to invest in Yuan Chain Coin (YCC) cryptocurrency and made the 
following payments to the scammer:
Date Payee Amount Method of payment
17/04/2021 Wonder Coins £182.24 Debit card
21/04/2021 Private account £750 Faster payment
21/04/2021 Private account £2,000 Faster payment
27/04/2021 Credit received from 
scammer-£170.70 Faster payment
29/04/2021 Private account £4,500 Faster payment
 
Mr M realised he had been scammed when he was unable to withdraw the profits of his 
investments and asked Monzo to reimburse the money he lost. However, Monzo refused to 
provide him with a refund as it said he had no reasonable basis for believing them to be 
genuine, and also didnt think it wouldve had to provide him with a scam warning based on 
the level of payments he was making. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think the payments would have 
appeared unusual enough to have warranted an intervention by Monzo, so didnt consider it 
to be liable for Mr Ms loss. Mr M disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2023. I said I wasnt minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr M had been the victim of a scam here. It also isnt disputed 
that he authorised the payments he made to the scammer via faster payment and 
debit card. The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security 
credentials provided by Monzo, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow 
the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Mr M 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character.
I appreciate that overall, Mr M has lost over £7,200 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character 
transaction. It was spread over four separate smaller increments which, in my 
judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when 
compared with Mr Ms spending history, such that they ought to have been regarded 
as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam.
I also acknowledge there were occasions where more than one payment was made 
in the same day, such as two payments being made on 21 April 2021. But I can see 
from Mr Ms statements that he had previously made several faster payments in the 
same day, which includes instances of paying the same account more than once. 
The cumulative total of the two payments he made on 21 April 2021 would also not 
have appeared suspicious. 
So, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered 
Monzos fraud monitoring systems for this payment, or that would have indicated Mr 
M was in the process of being scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr M reported the fraud. In terms of the debit card payment, there are some 
circumstances where the money can be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback 
dispute. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment 
disputes between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  
MasterCard in this case  ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved 
between the merchant and the cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme, meaning there are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence 
that will be accepted for a chargeback to be considered valid, and potentially 
succeed.
There are very limited options for payments that have gone to any type of 
investment. Mr Ms claim was that he could not withdraw his funds from his trading 
account with Ironbits and that they were operating fraudulently.
Mastercards scheme does not consider claims about being unable to withdraw funds 
from trading accounts and the scheme doesnt provide dispute resolution options for 
victims of alleged fraud. So, given there would be no reasonable prospect of a 
chargeback succeeding in these circumstances, I dont think Monzo acted unfairly by 
not pursuing a chargeback for the debit card transaction.
In terms of the faster payments Ive also considered whether Monzo could have done 
more to recover the money from the receiving bank. However, in this instance, the 
money was sent to another account in Mr Ms name (which the scammer also had 
access to), where the funds were then transferred to the scammer in order to place 
the fake trades. So, it seems highly unlikely that any money would have remained 
in the receiving account to have been recovered, particularly as the scam was not 
reported until around a month later. 
Monzo are also under no obligation to refund the faster payments to Mr M under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either. Monzo isn't a signatory to the CRM Code  which requires a firm to reimburse a customer who has been the victim 
of an APP scam like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances  but it has 
agreed to abide by its principles. However, the Code does not apply to payments 
which the payer has effectively made to themselves (which would have been the 
case here given the payments were made to an account in Mr Ms own name). 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr M, and Im sorry to hear 
he has been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Monzo can 
fairly or reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances, so I do not 
intend upholding his complaint. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Mr M responded saying that he 
still believes the payment of £4,500 he made on 29 April 2021 ought to have triggered 
Monzos fraud prevention systems. Monzo had no further comments to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the reasons set out above in my provisional 
decision, as Ive seen no further evidence or arguments that would change these 
conclusions. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly that the £4,500 payment ought to have been flagged to 
Monzo. But Ive already explained why I dont think it would have appeared as particularly 
unusual when compared with his spending history, particularly given he had made a £2,000 
payment around a week before. So, Mr Ms comments in response to my provisional 
decision have not changed my thoughts on this.
It follows that I will not be departing from the conclusions reached in my provisional decision 
and I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman