DRN-2404203
The complaint
Miss K has a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with NRAM Limited and shes complained that 
shes a mortgage prisoner. She says she wants a lower interest rate on her mortgage.
What happened
Miss K took out this BTL mortgage in 2005 with the former Northern Rock. In 2007 she 
transferred onto a new interest rate which was fixed until March 2009. When Northern Rock 
collapsed, her mortgage was moved to NRAM.
When her preferential interest rate expired in 2009 Miss Ks mortgage moved to the standard 
variable rate (SVR), and thats what shes been paying ever since. 
Miss K says its not fair that she cant reduce her interest rate. She says she cant move her 
BTL mortgage elsewhere because her loan to value is too high and, whilst she could sell the 
property, she doesnt want to do so.
Our investigator didnt think NRAM was acting unfairly. Miss K didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Miss K wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I have considerable sympathy with the predicament Miss K finds herself in. The lending 
environment when she took her BTL mortgage out was very different.
When NRAM took over the mortgage it was on the SVR, and that continues to be applied. 
NRAMs not an active lender and isnt trying to attract new customers through offering low 
rates. All its customers move onto - and remain on - the SVR once their previous interest 
rate products expire. To that extent, its not treating Miss K any differently from any of its 
other customers. 
Although NRAM is a closed lender (in that its not taking on new business) its still regulated 
by the FCA and must follow its rules, albeit this is an unregulated mortgage due to it being 
for an investment property. But theres nothing in the FCAs rules that says a lender has to 
offer new interest rates to its customers once their old ones expire. The rules say that a 
lender has to treat its customers fairly taking account of their best interests; it has to 
communicate with them in a clear, fair and not misleading way; it has to notify them of 
changes to their monthly payments; and it mustnt take advantage of customers who cant 
move their mortgages elsewhere by treating them differently to other customers with similar 
characteristics. 
NRAM has notified Miss K of changes to her payments from time to time. And it isnt treating 
her differently from its other customers  all customers must stay on the SVR once their 
products expire, just like Miss K. So, I dont think NRAM is in breach of any of the regulators 
rules in not offering her a new rate. 
I dont think NRAM is acting in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement either. 
Nothing in the mortgage offer or the mortgage terms say that Miss K would be entitled to 
another preferential interest rate after her preferential rate expired. Im aware, of course, that 
its common for borrowers to take a preferential rate product  and then take another rate 
rather than revert to the SVR. Sometimes thats with an existing lender; sometimes its with 
another lender. But as I say, theres nothing in Miss Ks mortgage agreement that says shes 
entitled to a new rate. 
Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing in the mortgage contract, 
that requires NRAM to offer new interest rates. Nor is it under any other legal obligation to do 
so. 
Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. I do that by considering the law, regulators rules and guidance, and 
good industry practice  but ultimately, Im not constrained by them if I think fairness requires 
me to do something else. So, the question I must answer is whether, taking into account the 
rules and the mortgage terms, its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that NRAM 
has refused Miss K a new interest rate thats lower than the SVR. 
Ive thought about this carefully. Ive considered everything Ive set out above. 
Its unfortunate that Miss K has ended up with a closed book lender that doesnt offer new 
rates. But NRAM is her lender, and legitimately so. It doesnt offer new interest rates to any 
customers, including Miss K. Under current law and regulations, thats a position NRAM is 
entitled to take. Im mindful that if NRAM were to offer new lower rates to some customers, 
but not others, that could mean some customers were being treated less favourably than 
others with similar characteristics  which in turn could potentially cause unfairness. But that 
isnt currently the case. 
Theres nothing in Miss Ks mortgage agreement that would prevent her remortgaging 
elsewhere  shes no longer liable for an early repayment charge, for example. But the 
reason she says she cant do that is because of external changes  changes which arent 
part of her mortgage contract, arent within NRAMs control, and couldnt have been 
foreseen by any party when she took the mortgage out. 
NRAMs not treating Miss K any differently from how it treats its other customers. Theres 
nothing in the contract, the law or the regulators rules that requires NRAM to offer new 
products. NRAM itself isnt standing in the way of Miss K moving her mortgage elsewhere. 
Its treating her the same as it treats all its other customers. And Im also mindful that while 
NRAMs SVR is significantly higher than new interest rate products offered by other lenders, 
its not dissimilar to other lenders SVRs for BTL mortgages. 
Taking the facts of this case into account, and considering the law, rules and my findings 
about NRAMs business model and the level of its SVR, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
NRAM has made arrangements for its borrowers to consult a particular firm of mortgage 
brokers to see whether they can move elsewhere to a lender that would offer new interest 
rates. If NRAM makes that referral directly then the mortgage broker will waive their usual advice fees. If Miss Ks circumstances change and shes interested in that then she can 
contact NRAM directly to discuss it. Alternatively, NRAM has a mortgage deal finder search 
facility on its website if advice isnt needed. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman