DRN-4009242
The complaint
L, a limited company, has complained about amount offered by The New India Assurance 
Company Limited in settlement of its business interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
L held a commercial insurance policy issued by New India. It made a claim to New India 
after the business was required to close under the lockdown restrictions. New India accepted 
the claim and said it would cover three months of losses in line with the policy wording. L 
disputed that and argued that the indemnity period should be 24 months.
As New India didnt change its decision about the indemnity period, L brought its complaint 
to this service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it. He thought New India had interpreted the 
policy correctly. 
As L didnt agree, the complaint has been referred for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ls business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether New India acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when settling Ls claim.
New India accepted Ls claim under Section 3  Loss of Income. Clause 1 (ii) (c) of that 
section covered losses arising from an occurrence of a notifiable disease within a radius of 
25 miles of the insured premises.
It doesnt appear to be disputed that there was an occurrence of a notifiable disease, namely 
Covid-19, within a radius of 25 miles of Ls premises.
The policy went on to say that New India would pay losses incurred during the indemnity 
period. The policy defines indemnity period as:
in respect of 1(ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of Cover
The period beginning with the occurrence or discovery of the incident or the date 
from which the restrictions on the Premises are applied and lasting no longer 
than three months thereafter during which the results of the Business shall be 
affected as a result of the incident or restrictions.
I think that wording is clear that for losses arising from an occurrence of a notifiable 
disease within a radius of 25 miles of Ls premises as set out in clause 1 (ii) the 
indemnity period is a maximum of three months.
 
I appreciate the policy schedule summarised the loss of income cover as follows:
3. Loss of Income The maximum amount payable during any one Period of 
Insurance £600,000  Indemnity Period 24 months.
I agree that at first glance this suggests that the indemnity period for loss of income 
claims will be 24 months. In fact that was the default position and for some causes of 
loss a different indemnity period applied. 
The schedule also said:
This Schedule together with the Policy Booklet forms part of your Policy which shall be 
read together as one contract. Please check your cover including any endorsements 
and warranties that may apply.
Although New India didnt specifically refer L to the policy booklet when summarising the 
loss of income cover, I think it did make it clear to L that the two documents should be read 
together. Im satisfied that New India made L aware that the schedule didnt provide full 
details of the cover. When considering a claim, it is necessary to look at what the policy says 
as well as the schedule. 
I consider New India acted appropriately by applying the three-month indemnity period.
I appreciate this decision will be disappointing for L. But I think New India dealt with its claim 
in line with the terms of the contract it had entered into and New Indias decision was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman