DRN-2699651
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the poor service she got from AXA Insurance UK Plc after making a
claim on her motor insurance policy following an accident.  
What happened
Mrs Ds husband was driving their car on 26 May 2018 when he had to swerve it into the
kerb to avoid an oncoming vehicle. They then heard a noise from the engine and warning
lights appeared. AXA arranged to have the car taken to a garage. On 7 June 2018 AXA told
Mrs D that the garage had said it only dealt with bodywork and it thought the damage to the
car was mechanical. AXA said it would arrange for a mechanical inspection elsewhere.
The car wasnt collected from the garage as planned due to an error by AXAs agent, firm
C. The car was finally inspected by an independent engineer at the garage on 5 July 2018.
The engineer didnt find any impact damage, and he said the cars mechanical fault wasnt
accident-related. That meant it wasnt covered by the policy. Mrs D wanted to take the car,
but she wasnt able to do so until the storage charges owed to the garage from June 2018
onwards had been paid. AXA advised Mrs D on 17 July 2018 that it would pay the bill (plus
other charges that had accrued) but that the costs would be recorded against her policy.
In January 2019 AXA told Mrs D her policy had to be cancelled (as she no longer owned the
insured car) and that no refund of premium was due, as a claim had been made on it. Mrs D
disputed that, but AXA said the record on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database
(CUE) would remain. It showed that the claim was settled with an outlay of £2,917.49 by
AXA (largely for storage, car hire and towing the car to the garage). Mrs D complained to
AXA, and it offered her £200 for its poor service - but it wouldnt amend the CUE record.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Ds complaint. He said she should have been told
early in the process that her car wasnt going to be repaired by AXA. She could then have
sorted out the repairs herself. He said the delays and costs incurred for storage and hire
could have been avoided and the record on CUE would have been notification only. That
would have meant Mrs D got a partial refund of premium. He noted that Mrs D hadnt been
kept updated and that AXAs contact with her had been poor. He also thought there was
inconvenience and confusion around providing her with hire, plus some delays. 
The investigator said AXA should change the CUE record and provide a pro-rata premium
refund to Mrs D, plus interest. But AXA said it could only amend the CUE record if Mrs D
refunded it in full for the sum it had spent. The investigator said Mrs D shouldnt be held
responsible for costs that had accrued through no fault of hers. AXA didnt agree. And later
on, Mrs D said she hadnt received the £200 AXA had offered her for poor service.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
AXA has confirmed that at the start of the claim, it was aware that Mrs Ds car had
mechanical failure and needed to be assessed at a dealership garage. I think if it had been
taken to a dealership garage  or any garage that dealt with mechanical issues - it would
have been established right at the start that the mechanical issue wasnt accident-related.
I think the storage charges that were accrued after that were due to the error made by AXAs
agent, firm C, in not collecting the car on time. But if the mechanical assessment had been
carried out when it should have been, no storage charges would have been run up. Mrs D
could have taken her car from AXAs garage promptly and dealt with it as she saw fit.
Mrs D has said from the start that had she known at an early stage that the car wasnt
repairable by AXA, shed have withdrawn the claim and would have refunded the cost of the
towing charge to AXA. She says shed also have refunded the car hire costs  but in
exchange, shed expect any reference to the claim to be deleted from CUE.
I dont think Mrs D should have to refund the cost of hire. The file shows that the hire car
wasnt booked until 13 days after the accident. I think if the car had been taken to a suitable
garage, the initial inspection would have been done well before then. And there would have
been no need for AXA to pay firm C for its services, or to instruct an independent engineer.
So AXA wouldnt have incurred any of the expenses that make up the sum shown on CUE,
except for the towing charge that Mrs D has said shes willing to refund.
As an incident was reported, I think AXA had to record it on CUE. We think its fair for an
insurer to record any outlay on its part, even when it decides to decline a claim. But I think
the charges set out should only reflect what the insurers outlay would have been, but for any
error on its part. Here (apart from the towing charge) the costs were run up as a result of
AXAs errors. The CUE record shows the claim was settled for over £2,900 and that Mrs Ds
no claims discount was disallowed. So future insurers will note that theres a fault claim on
her policy, which is very likely to affect her future premiums.
Its open to AXA to change the record on CUE as long as it remains accurate. In this case, I
think its fair to say that a claim was made on the policy. But in my opinion, it would be fair
and reasonable for AXA to record it as non-fault claim, with Mrs Ds NCD allowed. That
would be on the basis that Mrs D refunds the cost of the towing charge. I dont think Mrs D
should lose out as a result of the costs that arose from AXAs errors. But as a claim was
made, I dont think Mrs D is due a premium refund.
In terms of AXAs poor service, I think theres a lot of evidence on the file that shows its
communication with Mrs D was below standard, and that it caused delays. Mrs D had to
chase for updates frequently. I think she was greatly inconvenienced and frustrated by the
way the whole incident was handled by AXA and firm C. AXA offered her £200
compensation. It has confirmed recently that it has re-issued the payment, as Mrs D didnt 
receive it. But I dont think that sum is sufficient, given the extent of the confusion and errors
on the part of AXA and its agent. I think it would be reasonable for AXA to pay Mrs D a
further £150 for distress and inconvenience, making the total compensation sum £350.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mrs D said she thought it would 
be fair for the compensation to be increased to £413.76 in total so she wouldnt have to pay 
the towing charge. AXA agreed to that, but it said the costs couldnt be removed from the 
claim, although it could be recorded as non-fault with NCD allowed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable for Mrs D to suggest an increase in the premium and for AXA to 
agree to it. If the CUE record is amended as agreed, the fact that AXAs expenditure is 
shown should have no impact on Mrs B. So I think this is a reasonable way to settle her 
complaint.   My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to increase the total compensation to £413.76, so Mrs D 
doesnt have to pay for the towing charge. It should also amend the CUE record to show the 
claim as non-fault, with Mrs Bs NCD allowed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman