DRN-1210357
 
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) unfairly voided his motor 
insurance policy when it found the insured car had been impounded by the police before the 
policy had been taken out.
What happened
Mr G has explained that he spoke with his son who asked him to take out insurance for his 
car as it didnt currently have any insurance in place. As a father wanting to help, Mr G 
agreed to take out a policy.
Mr G obtained quotes online using a comparison site before calling Tesco to take out the 
insurance.
Mr G called Tesco several times before taking the policy. The initial call was to discuss the 
price differences he had obtained online using slightly different dates, and a final price was 
quoted for the policy Mr G wanted to take out. The policy was to be in Mr Gs name as the 
main driver with his son being a named driver on the policy. Mr G explained he would call 
back to take the policy.
When Mr G called back to take the policy he was asked whether the car was currently 
impounded. Mr G explained he had no idea and Tesco explained it couldnt offer the policy 
if it had been. Mr G said he would check and call back.
Mr G called back again to take the policy and was asked again if the car was currently 
impounded. Mr G answered No that the car was not impounded.
Tesco were then contacted by the police as Mr Gs son was attempting to get his car 
released from the police impound, and they wanted to check the insurance covered him for 
the exact time the car was impounded. Tesco explained that the policy had been set up with 
it after the car was seized and wasnt covered under the policy at the time.
Mr G called Tesco again and explained that his son had now told him that the car had been 
impounded, but that at the time he took the policy out he was unaware. Mr G also explained 
that he had taken the policy out in his name as it was likely his business would buy the car 
from Mr Gs son, and that he would continue to use it as a business car, but that a decision 
hadnt been made yet. At that time Mr Gs son was the registered keeper and owner of the 
car, and the main driver.
Tesco took the decision to void Mr Gs policy as he hadnt told it the car was impounded at 
the time he had taken out the policy and if he had, Tesco would not have accepted the policy 
in the first place.
Our Investigator considered Mr Gs complaint and thought Tesco had acted fairly in voiding 
his policy. Mr G disagreed so this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr G took out the policy he had a responsibility - under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) - to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. And for Tesco to take any action at all it needs to show Mr G didnt do 
this, and that he made whats described as a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out several things that need to be considered when deciding whether a 
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions the 
consumer was asked.
Tesco asked Mr G the same question twice which was is the car currently impounded. On 
the first occasion Mr G said he had no idea. Mr G has told us and Tesco that the reason he 
said he had no idea if the car had been impounded was because the car wasnt parked in its 
usual location. Mr G said he would check and then call back.
When Mr G called Tesco again to take the policy and was asked again his response was 
no. Mr G has told us that he said no because he had spoken to his son who confirmed 
the car had not been impounded.
I appreciate Mr G went to the effort of checking with his son that the car had not been 
impounded before continuing to take the policy. But Mr G was taking the policy out in his 
own name to potentially be the future owner of the car. He also knew the car wasnt in its 
usual location, and his son had called him to ask him for help insuring the car instead of 
taking out cover himself in his own name. Considering the circumstances leading up to Mr G 
taking out the policy I think he should have taken more care in finding out the location of the 
car, and made sure the answer he gave Tesco was accurate.
Tesco has also shown that it would not have offered Mr G a policy had it known the car had 
already been impounded by the police. So as Tesco would have acted differently if Mr G had 
taken more care to give accurate information, I think its also fair that Tesco has taken the 
decision to void Mr Gs policy.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman