DRN-3238160
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr C made two payments out of his account to an investment company, for £1,422.73 on 
12 October 2020 and £3,000 on 15 October 2020, to fund what he thought was an 
investment in gold. Mr C says he spoke to someone from the investment company before 
sending the payments and had checked its website and online reviews of the company. 
Unfortunately, we now know the company to be a scam.
Mr C says he became suspicious when he asked to withdraw the profit hed made and was 
told he should either leave the money in for longer or pay more money in. He then checked 
online again, saw more negative reports and reviews and realised it was a scam. Mr C 
reported the payments to NatWest and asked that they be refunded.
NatWest investigated but didnt agree to refund the payments as it said Mr C could have 
carried out more checks himself into whether the investment company was legitimate before 
making the payments. It also said it had tried to recover the money from the bank it was sent 
to, but had been told there was no money left to be returned. Mr C wasnt satisfied with 
NatWests response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think NatWest should have to 
refund the money Mr C lost. They didnt think the payments would have appeared 
particularly unusual or out of character for Mr C so it was reasonable that NatWest hadnt 
stopped or asked further questions about them. They also felt NatWest had done all it could 
to try to recover the money. Mr C disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think NatWest needs to refund the money Mr C lost. Ill explain why 
below.
Its not in dispute that Mr C authorised both of the payments. He says he made them himself. 
So while I recognise that he didnt intend for the money to be sent to scammers, under the 
Payment Service Regulations, the starting position is that he is liable for the payments and 
NatWest doesnt have to refund them.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think NatWest 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether NatWest should have identified that Mr C was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of the payments.
I dont think either of the payments was for a particularly large amount or was significantly 
larger than some of the other transactions on Mr Cs account, as there were occasional 
payments both into and out of his account for similar amounts over the previous 12 months. 
The payments also didnt use the full available balance in the account or leave the balance 
of the account at an unusual level compared with where it had been in the previous 12 
months. So I dont think the payments will have looked particularly out of character or 
unusual, based on Mr Cs previous account history. I also dont think the two payments Mr C 
made were done in such a short period of time as to be suspicious. And while the payments 
were to a new payee, this on its own isnt enough to say they were suspicious.
So I think its reasonable that NatWest didnt identify that Mr C was potentially at risk of fraud 
as a result of these payments or carry out any further checks before processing them. And 
so I think NatWest acted reasonably in processing the payments and I dont think anything it 
should reasonably have been expected to do could have prevented Mr C losing his money.
Ive also considered whether NatWest could have done more to try to recover the money, 
once it had been told of the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover the money from the bank it was sent to. And NatWests records show it contacted 
the bank the money was sent to immediately, to ask that it be returned. Unfortunately, the 
bank the money was sent to replied saying there was no money left. But I dont think 
NatWest could reasonably have done more to try to recover it.
I sympathise with the position Mr C has found himself in. I appreciate how he feels about this 
case and that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. But, for the reasons set out 
above, I think NatWest has acted reasonably in processing the payments and I dont think it 
needs to refund the money he lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman