DRN-1341307
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) reclaimed cheques paid into 
his account making him overdrawn. He wants the debt written off.
What happened
Mr S paid two cheques into his NatWest account in January 2017. Both were payable to his 
wife, not him and totalled £700. Mrs S was unwell and the cheques were from her private 
medical insurer. They didnt have a joint account and Mr S couldnt access her account, so 
he paid them into his own account. The cheques cleared and Mr S says the money was 
used to pay household bills.
Subsequently Mr S and his wife separated. In September and October 2019 the cheques 
were reclaimed at his wifes request. NatWest debited the amounts from Mr Ss account. 
This resulted in him becoming overdrawn and exceeding his authorised overdraft limit. Mr S 
only realised he was overdrawn when he checked his online banking so he contacted 
NatWest. 
It told him about the reclaim and Mr S was very unhappy. He paid money into his account to 
bring it within his overdraft limit. And he complained about the cheques being cleared initially 
and the funds being debited from his account. 
NatWest agreed it had made a mistake in clearing the cheques. But said it had to process 
the reclaim when it was requested and it had been correct to debit his account. It said it had 
tried to contact him before debiting his account, but without success. NatWest agreed to 
refund the unauthorised overdraft charge. It also proposed re-crediting Mr Ss account, with 
a repayment plan for him to then repay the debt in an affordable manner. It also credited £50 
to Mr Ss account as compensation for the upset caused.
Mr S wasnt happy as he wanted the £700 debit written off. He referred his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked in to it. She upheld Mr S complaint. She agreed NatWest had made 
an error in clearing the cheques. But said it had correctly followed the procedures in the 
Terms and Conditions of the account in debiting his account once the reclaim had been 
requested. As such NatWest couldnt be asked to write off the £700. But she thought it 
should increase the compensation payment to £150 in respect of the upset now caused by it 
accepting the cheques initially.
Mr S didnt agree. He said NatWest were at fault for accepting the cheques and he wasnt 
prepared to accept partial settlement or compensation of less than £700.
As Mr S doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am upholding the complaint. But I dont think NatWest need to do anymore than our investigator has already 
recommended so I wont be asking NatWest to write off the £700 debt.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr S and I understand this is a difficult situation for him, 
especially as the funds were reclaimed more than two and a half years after clearing.
There isnt any dispute that the cheques werent payable to Mr S. As such he shouldnt have 
paid them into his account as he wasnt entitled to the payments and NatWest shouldnt 
have cleared them. But I dont think NatWest hasnt done anything wrong in debiting his 
account as this is set out in the account Terms and Conditions in respect of cheque 
payments. And NatWest cant take into consideration what Mr S says about how the money 
was spent in 2017.
I think NatWest has been fair and reasonable in offering to loan the money to Mr S, so that 
he can repay the debt in an affordable manner. It has also waived charges and interest on 
the overdraft whilst our service investigates his complaint. 
I do think Mr S suffered trouble and upset because of the original error and this was worse 
than it might have been because of the unsuccessful attempts on both occasions to contact 
him before his account was debited. I think it is reasonable for NatWest to pay a further £100 
in compensation in respect of this upset, to take the total to £150.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc. 
I direct it to pay Mr S a further £100 compensation in respect of his trouble and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman