DRN-3275217
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) increased his credit limit after hed told it he 
was in financial difficulty. He also says he was told that Lloyds had sold his account to a third 
party, which wasnt correct.
What happened
Mr D has a credit card account with Lloyds. He says that Lloyds increased the credit limit on 
his account, even though hed told it he was experiencing financial difficulties. Lloyds says 
that Mr Ds credit limit was the same from June 2006 until March 2018. It says he hadnt told 
it he was unhappy with the limit or told it anything to indicate he couldnt make payments 
until he spoke to its Collections department about his financial situation in November 2017.
Mr D also says he was told that a debt collection agency had bought his account from 
Lloyds. This wasnt correct. Lloyds says it had appointed the agency to manage the account, 
but it was still owned by Lloyds. Lloyds acknowledges that Mr D was given incorrect 
information about this. It has apologised for not giving him better service and offered to pay 
him £100 for the upset caused. But Mr D declined the offer and brought the complaint to this 
service.
Our Investigator thought that Lloyds offer was fair and didnt ask it to do anything more. But 
Mr D didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
When Mr D referred the complaint to this service, and when he responded to our 
Investigators view, he raised numerous other complaint points. Our Investigator has 
explained why we cant look at those, so Im not making a decision about them here. Im only 
looking at the two issues outlined above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr Ds credit limit stayed the same from 2006 until 2018. It was decreased 
twice in 2018, before being brought down to zero in January 2019 when the account was 
defaulted. From the information available, I find that the first time Mr D mentioned financial 
difficulties to Lloyds was in November 2017. This is recorded in Lloyds notes of a call with 
Mr D. So Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt increase Mr Ds credit limit after becoming aware of 
his financial difficulties.
Turning to the other point, Mr D says he was told that the debt collection agency had 
purchased his account from Lloyds. Lloyds accepts that this information was wrong as the 
account hadnt been sold, although the agency had been asked to manage it on behalf of 
Lloyds. Lloyds has apologised for the upset this caused Mr D and offered to pay him £100. I 
think thats a fair way to recognise the impact of this mistake. But I havent seen anything 
which makes me think Lloyds needs to do more to put things right here. 
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle this complaint and I think 
thats fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay £100 
to Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman