DRN-3441135
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain about AWP P&C SA (AWP) for its failure to send an engineer in 
response to his home emergency, leaving him to carry out repairs himself. He wants AWP to 
pay him compensation reflecting the costs that AWP would have incurred if it had attended. 
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W held home emergency cover with AWP. This ought to have provided call 
out attendance and emergency repair costs following breakdown of his heating and hot 
water system. 
In August 2021, Mr W and Mrs W suffered an issue with their hot water system, during which 
the water tank fell off the system. 
They logged a claim with AWP. AWP agreed to send an engineer out and said it would call 
Mr W and Mrs W back shortly. 
When no response was received from AWP, and no engineer attended, Mr W undertook 
repairs himself. 
Mr W and Mrs W complained to AWP. AWP responded upholding the complaint and offering 
Mr W and Mrs W £100 compensation for its failure to contact them or to send out an 
engineer. 
Mr W and Mrs W were not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator has looked into this matter and thought that AWP ought to do more to put 
matters right. He considered that AWP ought to pay Mr W and Mrs W £300 compensation 
for their distress and inconvenience. 
AWP has not responded to the investigation to indicate whether it accepts this view. Mr W 
and Mrs W think that the compensation ought to be increased due to AWP not responding. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the context of this complaint, in that Mr W and Mrs W took out home emergency 
cover for peace of mind and Mr W had been recovering from illness so was less able than 
previously to respond to problems like this. In this instance there is no dispute over the facts 
and AWP has accepted that it did not attend Mr W and Mrs Ws home when it ought to have 
done. 
My colleague has explained the way we look at complaints and that this is not intended to 
punish businesses for doing things wrong. They also explained the way we look at 
compensation, including financial effects and distress and inconvenience. 
I agree with all that my colleague has said in this regard and I agree with their assessment of 
compensation. I think that £300 in total is fair and reasonable when considering the distress 
and inconvenience Mr W and Mrs W were caused.
I appreciate that Mr W and Mrs W feel that by not responding to the view that AWP have 
made this worse, and so ought to pay more compensation. I do not agree, however, and I 
feel that the level of compensation put forward by my colleague remains appropriate and in 
line with other awards we would make in similar circumstances. 
Putting things right
I therefore uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint and direct that AWP pay to them a total of 
£300 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. AWP may deduct from the 
payment now due any compensation it has already paid to Mr W and Mrs W.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint and direct AWP P&C SA 
to pay to them a total of £300 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman