DRN-3746483
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited wouldnt backdate his annuity 
payments to his pensions normal retirement date after it was deferred. He says they failed 
to make it clear hed be financially worse off if he deferred his annuity. 
What happened
The complaint is well known to both parties and as such Ive only summarised the details 
here. 
Mr A had a pension with Aviva that had a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) payable at 
age 65. But the plan had a normal retirement age (NRA) of 60. So, Mr A was able to take his 
benefits at age 60 albeit, at a reduced rate to the GMP which would become available at age 
65. 
Aviva sent Mr A a wake-up letter for his pension in April 2019, and another in August 2019 
reminding him that he was approaching the NRA of his plan. In July 2019 Aviva also sent a 
retirement pack showing the options Mr A had for taking his benefits. However, this letter 
was sent to an advisor Aviva incorrectly held on record for Mr A. So, Aviva say it may not 
have been received by Mr A. 
Mr A didnt claim his annuity at his NRA, so Aviva say his plan moved into deferment. 
In early 2020 Mr A asked for another retirement pack and transfer valuation of his plan. And 
Aviva later received a transfer request from another provider. Although they declined the 
request as Mr As plan didnt have enough funds in it to meet the GMP.   
In August 2020 Mr A complained to Aviva. His complaint was that Aviva would not agree to 
backdate his annuity payments to when his plan reached the NRA the previous year. He 
said he wasnt aware these payments would be missed if the annuity was deferred. 
In response to his complaint Aviva said theyd made an error by sending the retirement pack 
to an advisor in July 2019 instead of Mr A. They werent able to see that the advisor was 
acting for Mr A at that time, so they sent Mr A a cheque for £150 for the inconvenience that 
caused. They said this figure included any conversion fees to local currency as Mr A lived 
abroad. 
Aviva also said that so far Mr A hadnt requested them to set up the annuity. Hed asked for 
a transfer which wasnt possible. They said he hadnt lost out financially as his GMP was still 
increasing in deferment and they wouldnt backdate his payments to his NRA.
Mr A was unhappy with Avivas response as he said he was entitled to a minimum level of 
guaranteed pension from age 60. So, he said he was owed around a years worth of annuity 
payments. Mr A brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator said it was fair for Aviva to have moved Mr As funds into deferment when 
he hadnt applied to take his benefits by his NRA. And the quotes Mr A received 
demonstrated his funds were increasing in deferment. He went on to say this was all in line 
with the policy documents Mr A had been supplied so he didnt think Aviva had done 
anything wrong by not agreeing to backdate his payments to his NRA. 
Our investigator went on to say Aviva shouldnt have sent the retirement pack to an advisor 
in July 2019. But he concluded that the £150 Aviva had offered in this respect was fair 
compensation for the inconvenience and upset that caused. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigator, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mr A has continued concerns about the time its taken to set up his 
annuity with Aviva while his complaint has been with our service. I must make it clear 
however, that this complaint focuses on the issues contained within the complaint he made 
to Aviva in August 2020  their decision not to backdate his annuity payments to his NRA. 
I say that because Aviva have not had the opportunity to respond to any concerns Mr A has 
about any possible delay once Mr A applied to set up his annuity payment. And so, our 
service hasnt been sent the required evidence to establish the facts of that possible delay or 
investigate them fully. If Mr A wishes to, he can speak to Aviva about the time its taken to 
set up his annuity since they dealt with this complaint.
The issues for me to determine here are whether Aviva did anything wrong and, if so, what 
they should do to put things right.
When considering these issues where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. 
In the years leading up to Mr As NRA I can see that hed raised several concerns with Aviva 
about his pension plan. These communications show me that its likely Mr A knew that he 
could access the benefits of his plan from age 60, albeit the full benefits of the GMP werent 
available until age 65. And Aviva sent Mr A a wake-up letter in April 2019 to remind him that 
his NRA was approaching. 
The wake-up letter explained Mr A had several options at his NRA and said he didnt have to 
take his benefits. It also said;
If youre not ready to take your benefits yet, please call and let us know. We can explain 
what delaying your benefits means for you
The letter also signposted Mr A to other useful information from Aviva and impartial guidance 
from the governments Pension Wise service.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr A contacted Aviva to discuss what would happen to his 
benefits if he delayed them. But from Avivas wake-up letter Mr A ought to have known that 
the option of not taking his benefits was available to him. Especially as he later didnt claim 
his benefits at his NRA.  
Aviva acknowledged that Mr A may not have received the retirement pack in July 2019. Which is disappointing as the retirement pack contained further information about deferring 
the benefits. But, as Ive said, I think Mr A was already aware of the earliest at which he 
could claim his benefits  his NRA. If Mr A had wanted to claim his benefits at his NRA I 
would have expected to see him contact Aviva prior to that date to request information about 
his annuity. But Ive seen no evidence that he did. 
Aviva were also sent several requests from a new pension provider in early 2020 requesting 
that they transfer Mr As funds to them. I think that adds further weight to show Mr A hadnt 
made up his mind on how to take his benefits at his NRA the previous year. 
Mr As NRA was the earliest age he could access his benefits. But that didnt mean he had 
to access his benefits at that time. Ive not seen any agreement Mr A had with Aviva to say 
that was the case. And when Mr A didnt access his benefits Aviva moved his fund into 
deferment.
In March 2020 Aviva sent Mr A a letter explaining that if his retirement was delayed by more 
than seven weeks after his NRA, his GMP would increase by 1/7th of 1% for each complete 
week after his NRA. It also said the policy value at the NRA would be increased by the Bank 
of England base rate plus 1% until the benefits were taken. 
Aviva made a mistake in failing to send Mr A the relevant retirement pack approaching his 
NRA. But the evidence Ive seen makes me think that Mr A ought to have been expecting it. 
And knew what his NRA was. He knew what his entitlement was in claiming his benefits. 
And he didnt pursue that on reaching his NRA. I dont think that Avivas failure to send Mr A 
the retirement pack meant that he received his annuity later than he would otherwise have 
done. So, I dont think that Aviva have to backdate the annuity payments. I dont think thats 
unfair as Mr As funds and the GMP would have increased while he decided how to take his 
benefits. 
I appreciate Mr A may feel that deferring his benefits wasnt good value for money - 
something which he feels Aviva should have pointed out to him. But Aviva werent providing 
Mr A with any financial advice so they couldnt have given an opinion on that to him. Even if 
it may have appeared to them that Mr A might be worse off in the long run by deferring his 
pension.  
Aviva did, however, make an error. They sent one of the retirement packs to an advisor Mr A 
says he does not know. I appreciate this must have been upsetting for Mr A to have had 
information about his retirement options sent to a firm that werent advising him. But as Ive 
said, I think Mr A was aware of his normal retirement date and could have made enquiries 
with Aviva if he wanted. So, I dont think their error caused any financial loss even though I 
can appreciate it upset Mr A to learn of Avivas error.
Putting things right
Aviva have offered Mr A £150 compensation for the upset and inconvenience they caused 
by sending his July 2019 Retirement Pack to an adviser Mr A didnt know. The offer included 
conversion fees to local currency as Mr A lives abroad. In all the circumstances of this 
complaint, I think £150 is a fair offer as it broadly reflects the amount of upset caused. I say 
that because Mr A wouldnt have been aware of the error until Aviva pointed it out to him. so, 
I think the impact of the error wouldnt have lasted long.
Mr A lives abroad. He has concerns about the postal system and finds it difficult to pay in a 
cheque. So, I think its reasonable for Aviva to give Mr A the choice of how he wants the 
compensation paid, either by cheque or bank transfer.  My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to pay Mr A £150 as Ive set out above for the distress and upset they caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman