DRN-3253384
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc cannot locate and will not pay out on an investment 
he made a number of years ago.
What happened
Mr E has told us that he invested a large sum of money with Santander a number of years 
ago. He initially believed he made this investment in March 2010 but has since said it may 
have been in 2014. 
In 2020, he called Santander to ask for the funds to be withdrawn but was told this wasnt 
possible as an investment couldnt be located. In 2021, he complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked at the case but didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. 
They felt Santander had sufficiently looked into the matter and that there was no record of 
Mr E having made an investment with them. 
Mr E disagreed so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Santander was unable to locate Mr Es details on their system, he provided them with 
his full name, date of birth and ten years of address history. This enabled them to find him on 
their systems. 
Having seen the screenshots from Santanders internal systems, its clear Mr E has been a 
customer of Santanders for some time. The screenshots show hes previously opened 
Santander current accounts and an instant access savings account, and that hes bought 
insurance from them too. 
However, theres nothing to suggest that Mr E took out any form of investment with 
Santander. And theres nothing to suggest he opened a new account (investment or 
otherwise) with Santander in March 2010 or in 2014.
Mr E has told us the branch where he recalls taking out the investment, as well as the name 
of the person he spoke to at the time. Hes explained he doesnt have any further details. I 
appreciate Mr Es frustration at this matter, and I dont dispute his recollections. But Im not 
able to ask Santander to pay him money from an investment where there is no evidence that 
an investment was taken out. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman