DRN-4308138
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr S complains about a second charge mortgage (secured loan) Mr S 
took out on the recommendation of Premier Mortgages (North West) Limited trading as 
Mortgageable. The estate complains that the loan was mis-sold to Mr S and wasnt suitable 
for his needs at the time.
What happened
In 2021 Mr S took out a second charge mortgage over his property after receiving advice 
from Mortgageable. The loan completed in August 2021 and was used to consolidate 
unsecured debts, as well as replace an existing secured loan. Mortgageable originally 
advised Mr S to take out a loan with a lender Ill call W. But when W was unwilling to offer 
Mr S a loan, Mortgageable placed it with another lender Ill call E instead. 
In 2022, Mr S complained to us about the sale of the loan. He said that he had experienced 
significant mental health issues and was unwell at the time of the sale. He said that the loan 
wasnt suitable for him as it was at a high interest rate  this loan replaced an existing 
secured loan at a lower interest rate as well as consolidating unsecured debt. 
Mr S said the loan was unaffordable, and he said that Mortgageable had changed the loan 
and lender partway through the process without telling him or giving him further advice. Mr S 
said he should have been advised of other options  such as reaching an arrangement with 
his creditors  rather than taking out this loan which put his home at risk. 
At the time he brought the complaint, Mr S was unwell. Sadly he has since passed away. 
After obtaining letters of administration, the complaint is now being progressed by the 
executors of his estate.
Mr S, and then his estate, also complained about E. Our investigator concluded that E had 
lent irresponsibly. He said that E should remove all interest and charges from the loan, 
treating all payments as being towards the capital, and allow a one year grace period for 
Mr Ss executors to resolve the estates finances before requiring payment of the debt. E 
accepted that outcome.
Separately, our investigator also looked into this complaint against Mortgageable. He 
concluded that Mortgageable had mis-sold the loan because it hadnt handled Mr Ss 
application properly and the loan wasnt suitable for him or appropriate for his 
circumstances. He noted that Mr S borrowed around £97,000  of which around £40,000 
was to consolidate unsecured debt with the remainder being used to pay off an existing 
secured loan. The investigator said that Mortgageable ought to have considered whether it 
would have been more appropriate for Mr S to reach an arrangement with his creditors 
rather than secure the debt over his home. He said that if Mr S had received that advice, he 
may well have ended up reaching an arrangement that left him no longer liable for those 
debts. To reflect that, the investigator said Mortgageable should:
Pay Mr Ss estate 50% of the value of the unsecured debt consolidated (but not 
interest, as that had been removed by E);
Refund the £3,995 broker fee which was added to the loan balance (again, without 
interest removed by E);
Pay Mr Ss estate £500 compensation to reflect the distress the advice caused to 
Mr S before he passed away.
Mortgageable did not accept that. It said it had given appropriate advice to Mr S. He needed 
to reduce his outgoings and wanted to consolidate his debts to do so, and the loan achieved 
that. There was nothing to suggest that the loan was unaffordable or that there was any 
other reason it shouldnt have been arranged. It didnt think Mr S would have taken 
alternative action such as declaring himself bankrupt because of the implications of doing so. 
It said the loan met Mr Ss needs and circumstances at the time  though it accepted it 
hadnt given formal advice about the loan with E because of an oversight due to the 
individual Mr S dealt with leaving the firm. As a gesture of goodwill to resolve the complaint it 
offered to refund the £3,995 broker fee and pay Mr Ss estate £5,000. But it didnt agree it 
should do anything further than that. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case comes to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I express my sincere condolences to Mr Ss executors  who are also close 
family members  for their loss. 
At the relevant time, sales of second charge mortgages such as this one were covered by 
the rules of mortgage regulation, known as MCOB, and Ive taken those into account, as well 
as the wider circumstances, in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
It's already been decided, in a complaint against the lender, that this loan was irresponsibly 
lent. The lender has agreed to remove all interest, and the fees it charged, from the loan 
balance so that Mr Ss estate only has to repay the capital he borrowed. 
That being the case, in this decision Ill focus on the role of Mortgageable. As the firm giving 
Mr S advice, and arranging this loan for him, it was required to take account of his needs 
and circumstances and recommend the most suitable loan for him  or, if no suitable loan 
was available, advise him not to proceed. Among other factors, therefore, Mortgageable 
should have considered whether the loan was appropriate for him based on his credit history 
(MCOB 4.7A.6 R (8)), and  as it involved debt consolidation  should have taken account of 
the costs of increasing the repayment period, the appropriateness of securing previously 
unsecured debt, and whether it would have been more appropriate for Mr S to negotiate an 
arrangement with his creditors rather than take this loan (MCOB 4.7A.15 R). And in advising 
Mr S, Mortgageable was entitled to rely on information he gave it, unless, on common sense 
grounds, there was reason to doubt it.
The difficulty in this case is that Mortgageable didnt give Mr S advice on this loan  even 
though it was required to do so. It advised him to take a loan with W, and proceeded to 
arrange that loan. But when W refused Mr Ss application, Mortgageable told him it would try 
to source another lender. It managed to do so, and told Mr S that it had sourced a loan with 
E  albeit on more costly terms than the loan with W. But it didnt revisit its advice to take a 
loan with W, or give Mr S advice about the different loan with E. Mortgageable accepts it 
didnt do that, and says it was an oversight because the adviser Mr S was dealing with left 
the firm around the time of the switch to E. But it maintains the loan with E was suitable.The advice in respect of the loan with W was for a loan of £88,000 over a 30 year term at an 
interest rate of 6.19% for the first five years, followed by a variable rate. This gave a monthly 
payment of around £570. The loan balance was later increased to around £97,000 (including 
fees) when a more accurate picture of Mr Ss unsecured debts became available. And when 
the application was made to E instead, the interest rate increased to 8.75%. Mr Ss previous 
secured loan, which was being consolidated, was at less than 5%.
There were some difficulties with the application to W. It was initially deemed to be 
unaffordable. Following a series of discussions between Mortgageable and Mr S, it was 
agreed that he would cancel his contributions to his employers savings scheme to boost his 
income and that Mortgageable would reduce its broker fee to reduce the loan balance. This 
made the loan just about meet Ws affordability criteria.
There were very many calls between Mr S and Mortgageable  Ive listened to them all. Its 
clear Mr S was very keen for the loan to go ahead. And Mortgageables adviser repeatedly 
assured him that things were on track and that the loan would complete soon. Its also clear 
to me that Mortgageable wasnt aware of any mental health issues Mr S may have been 
experiencing at the time, and I dont think it could reasonably have been aware. So I dont 
think Mr Ss health is a factor in considering whether Mortgageable gave suitable advice.
Mr S didnt make payments on his credit cards in June 2021. This is because he was 
expecting the loan to complete and pay off the cards, so he didnt think he would need to. 
But in fact the loan hadnt been agreed by then and when W carried out a credit check in 
July 2021 the missed payments came to light. This resulted in W refusing Mr Ss loan 
application.
Mortgageable didnt advise Mr S not to make those payments. Theres no suggestion of that 
in any of the calls or emails Ive seen. However, I think it did give Mr S an unrealistic 
expectation of how quickly the loan would complete, which may have led him to believe it 
wouldnt matter if he didnt make them.
As a result, the loan with W was no longer available. Mortgageables adviser told Mr S shed 
try and source a new lender. She managed to do so and called Mr S a few days later to 
advise him of the new loan, with E. The balance was the same. But the interest rate was 
significantly higher  8.75% - which meant the monthly payments were now over £800. 
However, affordability wasnt an issue as E would take into account income Mr S received 
from taking in a lodger as well as his salary  which W hadnt agreed to do.
The phone call in which the adviser gave Mr S details of the loan with E lasted just over 
three minutes. She told Mr S the name of the lender, the loan balance, interest rate and 
term, and monthly payments. But no advice was given. Mr S agreed to go ahead, as he felt 
he had no option.
Mortgageable proceeded to arrange this loan. But at no stage did it actually give Mr S any 
formal advice. Theres no advice or suitability letter for the loan with E (unlike the earlier loan 
with W that didnt go ahead). Ive not seen anything that explains why the adviser considered 
this to be a suitable loan for Mr S, let alone anything in which that was communicated to him.
Mortgageable says that this was an oversight, because the adviser Mr S had been working 
with left the firm around this time. And that may have been the case  Mr S was told she had 
left on one of the phone calls. But she wasnt the only staff member Mr S was dealing with; 
he also spoke regularly to the advisers manager, who continued to be involved after she left 
and who also didnt ensure that the loan was suitable or that Mr S had been advised of that.  
Oversight or not, the mortgage rules require advice to be given  and that means advice on the specific loan being arranged. The previous advice given about the loan application to W 
is not enough; Mortgageable should have considered whether the loan with E was suitable 
for Mr Ss needs and circumstances, and should have ensured he was advised accordingly. 
But it didnt do that.
However, its not my role to deal with technical failings  in deciding individual complaints, 
Im required to consider whether the complainant has suffered any detriment as part of 
considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So Ive gone on to think 
about whether the loan Mortgageable arranged was in fact suitable for Mr S  regardless of 
whether or not he received advice to that effect.
Im not persuaded it was suitable, for reasons Ill explain. 
The sole purpose of this loan was for debt consolidation. One of the debts being 
consolidated was an existing secured loan, at a much lower interest rate, which had around 
20 years left to run. Consolidating that into a new loan over thirty years at a higher interest 
rate made it much more expensive overall. 
Mr S told Mortgageable that the existing secured loan  and a previous one hed taken out 
before that  were for home improvements. But it doesnt seem to me that this was in fact 
the case. Mortgageable has given us a copy of his credit file, and I can see that two personal 
loans and three credit cards all ended at the same time the existing secured loan was taken 
out. And three more credit card accounts ended at the same time as the first secured loan 
was taken out. So  notwithstanding what Mr S told Mortgageable  it seems that both his 
previous secured loans were, substantially if not entirely, for debt consolidation. 
Mortgageable was entitled to rely on what Mr S told it  unless there were common sense 
grounds for doubting what he had said. Information in its possession  his credit record  
suggested there were grounds for doubting it. Its likely this was the third time in four years 
Mr S had taken a secured loan to consolidate debt, increasing the balance substantially 
each time. But although it had that information, Mortgageable didnt follow up on it with Mr S 
to clarify his reasons for the previous loans. 
Thats a very relevant consideration in thinking about whether this loan was suitable for 
Mr S. In certain circumstances, further borrowing for debt consolidation might be the right 
thing to do. Although it can make the debt more expensive overall, it can also result in 
reduced monthly outgoings, enabling the borrower to get their finances back on track and 
draw a line under their debt. But there are downsides too  it is often more expensive over 
the long term, and there are extra risks associated with securing previously unsecured debt.
If this was the first time Mr S had taken out secured lending to consolidate unsecured debt, 
its more plausible that his intention was to reduce his outgoings, get things back on track 
and resolve his overall indebtedness. But its likely this was the third time within a few years 
not the first  suggesting that instead there was a pattern of running up debt, consolidating it, 
and running up further debt. And its noteworthy that much of the debt consolidated on this 
loan was credit cards. Those cards might well still be available to Mr S even if he cleared the 
balances on completion.
In those circumstances, I think its strongly arguable this loan wasnt suitable. It would allow 
Mr S to increase his secured debt to almost £100,000 (in addition to his main mortgage). 
And its likely the previous pattern of going on to take out further unsecured debt in a way he 
couldnt sustain into the long term would be repeated (had he not passed away). It risked 
making Mr Ss position worse. 
As I say, Ive listened to all the calls between Mr S and Mortgageable, as well as reviewing the written advice. None of this was discussed or considered.
Taking the calls as a whole, I think its clear that the advisers primary focus was on selling 
Mr S the loan, rather than thinking about what was suitable for him and advising accordingly. 
As one example of that, in her advice, the adviser recommended a five year fixed interest 
rate because you may be able to include this loan when your mortgage is up for 
remortgaging  in other words, that in five years time Mr S may be able to consolidate this 
loan into his main mortgage.
I think this was an optimistic view, given Mr Ss wider finances and given that further 
borrowing on his main mortgage was discounted as an option at this time. 
In a later call, Mr S  having received the loan paperwork about the initial loan with W  was 
concerned about the total amount he was borrowing, the length of the term and the overall 
amount that would need to be repaid. In this call, the adviser went further than in her written 
advice  she told Mr S not to worry about the overall cost of this loan because thats if you 
keep the loan for the full term, but were not going to be doing that. In effect, the adviser 
promised that Mr S would be able to consolidate this loan into his main mortgage in five 
years time, so he didnt need to worry about taking a thirty year term or the overall cost he 
would have to repay. This reassured Mr S, and he agreed to proceed.
I dont think this was fair and reasonable. The adviser could not have been sure that would 
happen  there was a substantial risk that it wouldnt  and this conversation gave Mr S a 
wholly unrealistic view of his position and the long term liability he was taking on. 
Or again, when the loan application to W initially appeared unaffordable, the adviser didnt 
reassess her advice or discuss with Mr S whether taking out this loan was really a good 
idea. Rather, she agreed with him that he would stop contributions to an employment saving 
scheme and to reduce the broker fee  this would increase Mr Ss income and reduce the 
loan amount to bring it within Ws criteria. I would have expected the adviser to consider 
whether a loan that was so clearly on the margins of what was acceptable was really 
appropriate, and discuss that with Mr S. But that didnt happen. 
Similarly, when W rejected the application, the adviser moved on to an application with E 
without a proper discussion of the difference between the two loans and without reassessing 
her advice  even though the two were substantially different in cost. In my view, Mr S was 
swept along without being given proper advice, or the chance to reflect on it, about the very 
different loan he was now taking. And at the same time, having previously agreed to 
discount the broker fee to meet Ws criteria, the adviser put it back up again as part of the 
application to E  but merely mentioned the fee in passing to Mr S, rather than stopping to 
explain that the fee she would be charging to arrange the loan with E was around double the 
final agreed fee for the application to W. 
When the adviser left Mortgageable, Mr Ss application was taken over by another staff 
member who told Mr S at one point that he was the advisers manager. But again 
Mortgageable did not pause to note that Mr S had not received fresh advice or to review 
whether the loan with E was suitable for him.
One of the considerations in the mortgage rules, when advising on debt consolidation, 
requires Mortgageable to consider whether borrowing to consolidate debt is appropriate, 
including securing previously unsecured debt, or whether it would be more appropriate for 
Mr S to reach an arrangement with his creditors.
In its advice to Mr S, Mortgageable did not consider this. The only other options it considered were consolidating the debt to his main mortgage, or to an unsecured loan  both were ruled 
out. The adviser did not take into account whether it would be more appropriate for Mr S to 
come to some form of arrangement with his creditors. Mortgageable says its not able to give 
debt advice  but its not required to do so. It is required to consider whether taking out a 
loan, rather than taking other steps to deal with debt, was suitable for Mr S. 
Given all the circumstances  that this was likely to have been Mr Ss third secured loan to 
consolidate debt, with the total increasing each time; that Mr S had run up further debts, 
including substantial 0% credit card balances after each previous consolidation; that the loan 
with W was only marginally affordable; that the loan with E was significantly more expensive 
than Mr Ss existing secured borrowing  I think Mortgageable should have given more 
thought to this. Im not persuaded that further debt consolidation was the most appropriate 
option for Mr S. It increased his indebtedness, increased the overall cost, secured more debt 
to his property and risked allowing a cycle of consolidation and further borrowing to continue. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think this loan was suitable for Mr S, and Im not persuaded 
that Mortgageable acted fairly in arranging it for him.
Putting things right
That being the case, I think the advice Mortgageable should have given was that there was 
no loan which was suitable for Mr S, and that he should instead have considered taking debt 
advice from an independent debt adviser.
The lender has already agreed to remove all interest, and all fees charged by the lender, so 
that Mr Ss estate will only be required to repay the capital he borrowed. That goes a long 
way to putting matters right. In addition, Mortgageable should refund the broker fee which 
was added to the loan balance. 
Our investigator also recommended that Mortgageable refund half the unsecured debt which 
was consolidated to the loan. Mortgageable did not agree with that, as it said that Mr S 
benefitted from the borrowing which cleared his unsecured debts and so his estate should 
repay that capital. But it did offer to contribute £5,000 towards that.
This is not straightforward. In putting matters right, the starting point is that I look to put a 
complainant back in the position they would have been in had nothing gone wrong.
But its not easy to determine what Mr S would have done instead. He has passed away, 
and it seems was unwell before he did so. 
Had he taken independent debt advice about his unsecured debt, on the basis that once the 
0% credit card offers ended he couldnt sustain the debt, its likely that advice would have 
involved one of three options. Those are bankruptcy, an individual voluntary arrangement 
(IVA), or an informal arrangement with his creditors. As his debts exceeded £30,000 a debt 
relief order would not have been possible.
If Mr S had gone bankrupt, he would no longer have been liable for his unsecured debts. If 
he had entered an IVA, they may have been substantially reduced as part of the 
arrangement. And if he had reached an informal agreement, again its possible some or all of 
the unsecured debts might have been written off in light of his health situation.
So its possible Mr Ss unsecured debt might have been reduced, or that his liability might 
have come to an end altogether. But its also possible that it might not. Its not clear which 
option, if any, he would have taken or what the outcome of that would have been. It seems 
clear that if he was unable to consolidate the debt through this loan his debts would have become unsustainable, so  if he was able to do so notwithstanding his health  he may well 
have sought and taken advice of some kind.
All of that is to say that its not possible to say for sure what position Mr S would have been 
in had Mortgageable advised him that there was no suitable secured loan available to him. 
But its likely he would have had to take action of some kind, and that any of the options 
open to him had at least the possibility of some or all of his unsecured debt either being 
written off or rescheduled in a more sustainable way  and that he would have needed to 
take that action around the same time as receiving that advice from Mortgageable, so before 
he passed away around a year later.
In all the circumstances, and recognising that its not an ideal solution, I agree that requiring 
Mortgageable to refund 50% of the consolidated unsecured debt is a fair way forward. That 
resolution takes into account that Mr Ss estate would be in a better position had Mr S 
received appropriate advice and sought to resolve his debts in a different way  but that 
short of declaring himself bankrupt (which he might or might not have been willing to do) its 
likely they would still exist at least in part.
Finally, I agree that Mortgageables advice caused Mr S distress and inconvenience which 
led him to start this complaint before he passed away. Mortgageable should pay his estate 
£500 compensation in recognition of the distress caused while he was alive.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Premier Mortgages (North West) Limited to:
Refund to Mr Ss estate the broker fee charged to arrange this loan:
Pay Mr Ss estate 50% of the value of the unsecured debt consolidated to the loan 
with E;
Pay Mr Ss estate £500 compensation for the distress caused to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman