DRN-4274365
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about the administration of a second charge secured loan they 
had with Lender A. They have said that delay by Target Servicing Limited in removing the 
charge on the property title when the loan was repaid, meant the interest rate product they 
were able to obtain on their new mortgage was higher than it otherwise would have been. In 
settlement of the complaint Mr and Mrs S want to be compensated for the increased interest 
they will have to pay over the 20-year term of their new mortgage. 
Target Servicing Limited administered the loan on behalf of lender A, which is not regulated 
to do so in its own right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out their secured loan with Lender G in 2007. It was arranged on a 
repayment basis with a variable interest rate, over a term of 15 years. The loan fell into 
arrears at the end of 2009. In 2014 Mr and Mrs S appear to have started making payments 
each month to reduce the arrears, but the arrears balance remained over £10,000 when the 
loan was transferred to lender A in 2016. Lender A appointed Target to administer the loan. 
Mr and Mrs S made higher payments at times to reduce the arrears thereafter.
Mr and Mrs S paid off their loan on 9 February 2022. Target instructed its solicitors to 
remove the charge at that time, but this was not done. 
Mr and Mrs S made Target aware the charge hadnt been removed early in September 
2022. In addition to the removal of the charge, to compensate for the delay, they asked 
Target to remove any adverse information it had recorded on their credit files. As 
Mr and Mrs S expressed dissatisfaction with the service they received from Target, it treated 
the matter as a complaint, as it is required to do by the Regulator.
Target responded to the complaint in a letter of 24 October 2022. It confirmed that a charge 
would usually be removed within 28 days of the account being closed and acknowledged the 
mistake it had made with Mr and Mrs S account. It offered them £80 compensation for the 
inconvenience and upset the delay may have caused them. It declined to remove the 
information it had reported to credit reference agencies as compensation, as it had correctly 
been reported. The legal charge was removed by the Land Registry on 18 October 2022.
Mr and Mrs S were not satisfied with Targets response and they referred the complaint to 
this service. 
When we informed Target that the complaint had been referred, it confirmed the offer it had 
made was still available to Mr and Mrs S. It also highlighted that they had not provided 
evidence that the delay in them being able to remortgage was due to the charge remaining 
on the property title. As such, it could not be held responsible for the cost of the mortgage 
Mr and Mrs S managed to obtain. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He asked Mr and Mrs S for additional 
evidence to support their claim for financial loss, but they didnt provide what had been 
asked for. As such, he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld, as he considered the 
offer for inconvenience was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They disputed that the charge 
didnt affect the mortgage application. In addition, they said the Investigators comments 
about the arrears on the account were wrong  the information reported had been incorrect 
as they had cleared the arrears in 2014. They said that their credit ratings were average, and 
the charge not being removed on time had an additional impact on their mortgage 
application.
In addition, Mr and Mrs S provided an email chain between them and their broker discussing 
the charges on their property  there were two further charges, as well as Lender As. The 
emails set out that the mortgage application could not progress until all of the charges were 
removed or Mr and Mrs S provided the new lender with evidence from their creditors that 
they were being removed. The broker highlighted to them that the Lender A charge was still 
on the property title on 14 July 2022. All three charges were removed from the property title 
on 18 October 2022.
Our Investigator considered the additional information provided, but he was not persuaded to 
change his conclusions. Given there were other charges on the property title, which werent 
removed until the same day as the Lender A one, he didnt think that Mr and Mrs S would 
have been in a different position had the Lender A one been removed when it should have 
been.
Mr and Mrs S continued to disagree with the Investigators conclusions. They indicated that 
the two additional charges didnt affect their application and it was just the charge from 
Lender A that had. They also said they felt the amount of the offer from Target for its 
administration of the matter was a further slap in the face and showed its contempt toward 
them.
Again, our Investigator was not persuaded to change his conclusions. As agreement could 
not be reached, it was decided the complaint should be referred to an Ombudsman for 
consideration. 
The complaint was passed to me, and having reviewed the file in full, I asked Mr and Mrs S 
for some additional information about the arrangement of their new mortgage and about the 
removal of the two further charges against the property title. The information request, and 
subsequent chaser, sent by our Investigator was addressed to an email account that 
Mr and Mrs S had corresponded with us from. No response was received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold a complaint we need to be satisfied that a financial business did 
something wrong. Then to be able to award redress, we would need evidence that the 
mistake made was the direct cause of a financial loss. Compensation for upset and 
inconvenience could be made without such evidence where a mistake has clearly been 
made, but again in order to decide the amount of any compensation, we would need 
evidence of the impact of the mistake. 
In this case I dont need to decide if Target made a mistake as it has already accepted that it 
did. Target has already corrected the mistake, in that it has had the charge removed. So I 
now need to decide if there is anything more it needs to do to ensure Mr and Mrs S havent been disadvantaged by the mistake it made.
Mr and Mrs S have told us that their mortgage application was delayed because of 
Lender As charge. Due to the delay, Mr and Mrs S have said the interest rate product 
attached to the new mortgage was for a higher rate than they otherwise would have been 
able to obtain. Mr and Mrs S were asked for, and declined to provide, information that would 
enable us to establish if there had been any delays in the mortgage application. Nor did they 
provide any evidence that the charge having not been removed before it was, had caused 
any problems with their mortgage application or caused them any financial loss. Nor has any 
evidence of any inconvenience beyond having to contact Target to ask for the charge to be 
removed been provided. In light of this, the offer of compensation made by Target would 
appear to be reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S also asked Target to remove adverse information about their mortgage with 
Lender A from their credit file. Where a lender or administrator reports to credit reference 
agencies they are required to report accurate information. It would only be in the 
circumstance that incorrect data had been reported to credit reference agencies that we 
would require a business to alter or remove that information. I have seen no evidence that is 
the situation in Mr and Mrs S case and so Target cant be required to alter what it has 
reported. That said, if Mr and Mrs S have evidence that Target has recorded incorrect 
information, they should provide that evidence to Target so that it can determine if it has 
made an error and if so, correct it.
My final decision
Target Servicing Limited has already made an offer to pay £80 to settle this complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. As such, my decision is that Target Servicing 
Limited should pay Mr and Mrs S £80.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman