DRN-3816523
The complaint
Mr Q has complained AIB Group (UK) plc wont refund him for cash withdrawals that he 
didnt make.
What happened
In 2019 AIB noticed consistent cash withdrawals of £100 being made from Mr Qs account. 
They queried these with Mr Q who confirmed these withdrawals werent being made by him. 
When his card was renewed in 2019, itd been sent to his old address. Hed not lived there 
consistently since 2012.
Mr Q asked AIB to refund him. AIB didnt believe Mr Q had met the terms and conditions of 
his account. Hed not updated AIB with information about his revised address nor did they 
think hed kept his card secure.
Mr Q was aware whod used his card without his authorisation and had tried to get that 
individual to repay him £5,500 that had been taken from July to September 2019. That 
individual had tried to repay £1,000 to Mr Qs account but AIB wouldnt accept the funds. As 
Mr Q was unable to get any further with the local police and AIB, he brought his complaint to 
the ombudsman service.
Initially our investigator felt that Mr Q had allowed someone else to use his card. However 
after further discussion with Mr Q who confirmed hed left his card and PIN in his former 
room, along with other legal papers, he thought Mr Q had acted with intent which meant he 
wouldnt be asking AIB to repay him.
Mr Q has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 16 November 2022. AIB promptly accepted the 
outcome. Mr Q did not. He wanted AIB to present CCTV about the attempted payment.
I now have all I need to complete a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion I made in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply. I mention 
below those aspects that have an impact on the decision Im making here. These refer to 
customers acting with intent (that is, deliberately) under Regulation 77 of the PSRs.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by AIB and Mr Q as 
well as the views completed by our investigator on 29 September and 14 October 2022.
Firstly Im in no doubt Mr Q didnt authorise these cash withdrawals made from July to 
September 2019. A replacement card for this account had been sent to Mr Qs former 
address in 2019. Mr Q didnt live where the transactions took place.
He was obviously shocked when AIB told him what was going on. He was upset theyd not 
noticed this earlier. I can see why he may think this as hed hardly used this account for 
three years.
Mr Q confirmed to our investigator that hed left his former card and PIN in an envelope in 
the room he used to rent. He stayed there on occasions when he went to visit family. I 
imagine he felt  as the card was with other personal papers hed left there  this was safe 
particularly as its already been there for a few years by this stage.
It seems clear to me that Mr Qs former landlord and friend had found the replacement card 
 which had been sent to this address in early 2019  and the PIN which Mr Q had left 
together. These were then used without Mr Qs authority to withdraw more than £5,000 from 
his account.
However the card and PIN were kept together. This is contrary to regulation 77 of the PSRs 
which means banks dont need to refund customers if they are found to have acted in a 
deliberate manner (referred in the PSRs as with intent). This must seem very harsh to Mr Q 
and I completely sympathise. But I have no option other than to say Mr Q has kept his card 
and PIN together as a deliberate act. That means there is no obligation on AIB to repay him 
despite these withdrawals not being authorised by him.
I have also noted that AIBs direct action  despite them being very aware of what had been 
going on  stopped Mr Q being refunded £1,000 by the person using his account without 
authority. Unfortunately the original error was Mr Qs. I have considered whether it would be 
fair and reasonable for AIB to refund this amount to Mr Q. I dont think so overall but I do 
think they should pay him for the additional distress caused to him.
Im aware Mr Q would like AIB to present CCTV so he can identify the individual trying to 
repay him. I can confirm as this happened some time ago, no CCTV will now exist.
Putting things right
After considering the impact on Mr Q, I believe it would be fair and reasonable for them to 
pay Mr Q £500 because of their actions in not allowing money to be refunded to his account.
I accept Mr Q believes this is inadequate and that hes been treated unfairly. However I hope 
Ive laid out here why I believe this outcome is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given here, my final decision is to instruct AIB Group (UK) plc to pay £500 to 
Mr Q.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman