DRN-3417905
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Financial Administration Services Limited trading as Fidelity 
International (Fidelity) improperly required her to provide an unnecessary and 
unreasonable amount of personal and financial information and incorrectly sought to rely on 
regulatory requirements as its justification for doing so. 
In brief summary, she said its insistence on the need for her compliance with anti-money 
laundering (AML) requirements was unexplained and inappropriate given her financial 
situation and her track record with Fidelity. Mrs M was very concerned by the threat that 
access to her savings would be restricted  and alarmed when Fidelity placed restrictions on 
her account when she had not provided the information it asked for.
When Mrs M brought her complaint to us, Mrs Ms account access was still restricted. 
To put things right, Mrs M said she wanted Fidelity to immediately release any and all 
restrictions on her account. That happened shortly afterwards in any event.
Mrs M told us she also wanted Fidelity to make good any and all losses incurred due to her 
inability to effectively manage her portfolio whilst blocked from her account and refund recent 
'service fee' transactions from 5 June 2021 (when she had first contacted Fidelity about this). 
Mrs M said that, more importantly, she wanted Fidelity to acknowledge that their actions 
cause alarm and distress to retail clients and they need to accept that using threats and non-
existent regulation and legislation to extract information is not OK.
What happened
I have set out a chronology of events which gives an overview of the way the main complaint 
issue developed.  
Fidelity sent Mrs M a letter dated 28 May 2021 asking her to complete and return its 
enclosed Additional Information Request and gave a warning that: If we dont receive your 
form within 30 days of this letter, we may have to place some restrictions on your account. 
This would mean youd be unable to make further investments or redeem your holdings until 
the completed form has been provided.
Mrs M felt Fidelity could not have had any reason to think that her financial activities 
presented any sort of regulatory risk. She was so alarmed and concerned about being asked 
to provide the level of detail Fidelity seemed to be requiring that she initially thought it was a 
scam communication and she contacted Fidelity about it via a secure message on 
5 June 2021.
Fidelity responded on 7 June 2021 and confirmed it required the information in order to 
satisfy regulatory requirements. 
This led to an exchange of messages between Mrs M and Fidelity. In brief summary, Mrs M 
wanted Fidelity to point to the specific legislative or regulatory requirement it was relying on 
as authority for requesting the information it required and said otherwise she was not going 
to submit to demands for information they were not entitled to receive. For its part, Fidelity 
sent Mrs M a link to the FCA handbook and re-stated its position. It re-affirmed that it would 
restrict account access if Mrs M didnt comply with the AML requirements. Fidelity proposed 
the suggestion that Mrs M could speak to her wealth relationship manager to discuss things 
in more detail. It also said that permission had been obtained for her to upload necessary 
information rather than having to send in all the documentation to minimise the risk of data 
being lost in the post and ending up in the wrong hands (which was something Mrs M had 
been worried about). 
At this point, Fidelity identified Mrs Ms concerns as a complaint and referred the matter to its 
complaints team who tried unsuccessfully to phone Mrs M direct.
On 15 July 2021, Fidelity applied restrictions to Mrs Ms account.
On 17 July 2021, Mrs M emailed Fidelity in the following terms There is NO regulatory or 
AML requirement that requires (Fidelity) to source this kind of intrusive enhanced source of 
wealth due diligence. Quite the contrary the regulations are clear. This kind of information is 
only required in specific situations where the transaction, jurisdiction or client are high 
risk........it is absolutely clear that (Fidelity) are not being truthful and are using non-existent 
regulations as a lever to force intrusive and highly personal information from clients to which 
you are not entitled.
On 20 July 2021, Mrs M raised a data subject access request (SAR) as she was concerned 
by now to find out what data Fidelity held on her.
On 23 July 2021, Fidelity sent a final response letter saying it was sorry that Mrs M had 
found the information request to be invasive and unnecessary and said it would take her 
comments into account as it developed its information gathering processes. It said it was 
required to ask for the requested information under UK Money Laundering Regulations 2017 
(from which it quoted). Fidelity explained the reasons for the restrictions placed on her 
account and invited Mrs M to complete a Source of Wealth (SOW) form and gave her 
options as to how this might be arranged. Fidelity explained it needed to understand Mrs Ms 
source of wealth before any account restrictions could be lifted. Fidelity went on to say that 
they could accept a copy of the form completed to an extent Mrs M was comfortable with, 
and in line with her agreement to reaffirm her source of funds information. Fidelity 
apologised for having failed to reply to Mrs Ms secure message of 7 June 2021.
Mrs M didn't feel this letter had resolved things and so she brought her complaint to us and 
one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Mrs M also raised a new complaint with Fidelity about data protection issues as she didnt 
feel the form it sent as part of the SOW request made clear enough how the information 
about her would be used. This isnt part of the complaint I am looking at, so I dont need to 
say more about this in my decision. I mention it here only to demonstrate the extent of 
Mrs Ms concerns about her privacy and the use of her data.   
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ms complaint. She mainly said that how a financial business 
chooses to implement its procedures to comply with AML requirements is a matter of 
commercial discretion and ultimately, it is up to each business to decide what information it 
requires. She felt however that Fidelity had missed several opportunities to try and move 
things forward and if Fidelity had handled things better, account restrictions probably 
wouldnt have been in place for as long as they were  or possibly wouldnt have been 
needed at all. Also, Fidelity had acknowledged failing to reply to Mrs Ms secure message of 
7 June 2021. It had since accepted that the Additional Information Request form wasnt clear as not all the information was mandatory. And straight after it had accessed publicly 
recorded information about a person linked with Mrs M, Fidelity lifted the account 
restrictions, suggesting that Fidelity had deemed this information sufficient to satisfy its 
requirements.
This led our investigator to recommend that Fidelity should pay Mrs M £400 compensation 
overall which she felt was in line with an amount this Service would consider fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs M disagreed with our investigator. She has sent detailed responses re-stating her 
position and re-iterating her concerns that the information being sought was vast in nature, 
deeply personal and highly sensitive and intrusive. She said she was surprised that our 
investigator thought it a matter of commercial discretion as to what information a financial 
services company is able to request from clients and that ultimately it is up to the business 
to decide when Fidelity has repeatedly and consistently claimed a regulatory and legislative 
mandate. 
Mrs M put things this way: No UK company has the commercial discretion to remove 
the right of access to the life savings of their clients simply because they will not supply, 
what is after all, exceptionally private and highly sensitive financial data. I could not move my 
account to another vendor, withdraw the funds, or manage the portfolio risk. further, it is 
far from clear that even in the event that Fidelity were acting fully within the regulatory and 
legislative guidelines in demanding the additional information, that the right to remove 
access to my life savings exists. 
Fidelity also didnt agree with the investigators suggested settlement. It said it didnt have 
any new information or comments but re-iterated that it had addressed Mrs Ms remarks 
about its source of wealth information request in correspondence with her and in its 
responses to this Service. It said its letter to Mrs M dated 28 May 2021 explained that it 
needed additional information and supporting documents, with examples of what might be 
supplied.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amongst other things, Mrs M would like me to instruct Fidelity to stop claiming that 
regulatory requirements are behind its information demands and instruct it to immediately 
amend its SOW form and carry out an internal audit to ensure it asks only for information it is 
lawful to obtain and retain. 
Theres information on our website which explains how the Financial Ombudsman Service 
can help settle a complaint. Briefly, I must look at all the available information and decide 
what I think is fair and reasonable. I can direct a financial business to put things right for a 
particular consumer if it has done something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards that consumer. But only the industry regulator can decide if Fidelity has failed to act 
properly in accordance with its own regulatory requirements and instruct Fidelity to take 
action that impacts on its business processes generally or require it to change its ways of 
working. 
Id like to reassure Mrs M that Ive considered everything both sides have provided. Ive 
focused on the core issues in deciding the complaint and no discourtesy is intended if I do not address every point raised. I will deal with all the main points that have an impact on the 
outcome of this complaint.
In response to our investigators view, Mrs M has said she did not complain in order to 
receive financial compensation but because she is genuinely concerned that Fidelity are 
routinely demanding vast swathes of highly personal information from vulnerable retail 
clients and using the threat of sweeping sanctions as a means of obtaining that information.
It is clear to me that whats happened has been deeply upsetting and frustrating for Mrs M. 
But having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the 
same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Mrs M told us she had been a longstanding Fidelity client for almost thirty years and over the 
previous ten years or so, she had held an ISA invested in UK-only regulated funds and a 
cash account for the purpose of allowing Fidelity to take monthly fees. She said she typically 
invested in the ISA up to the annual limit, making payment by debit card from a UK bank 
account and she couldnt recall making withdrawals for over a decade. She had lived at the 
same address for very many years and she had held her bank accounts for twenty years 
plus. 
Whilst I understand Mrs Ms strength of feeling about Fidelitys information request, I have to 
look at this complaint from both sides. And I must be impartial. 
Fidelity responded on 7 June 2021 to Mrs Ms secure message sent on 5 June 2021.I think 
it's fair to say that was a reasonable timescale. And it has consistently explained and 
maintained its view that its own compliance obligations mean it has no option but to comply 
with regulatory requirements which require it to record information about clients  specifically 
about the source of clients wealth. 
In communications that followed, this message was repeated and Mrs M was directed to 
some of that regulatory authority. 
I appreciate that Mrs M feels her overall circumstances suggested she didnt present a 
regulatory risk  she mentioned that all her payments into the ISA came from a high street 
bank so Fidelity didnt need to be concerned about the source of the funds. And as she 
wasnt routinely making withdrawals, there couldnt have been any real concern that she was 
funding terrorism. Fidelity explained to Mrs M why it was carrying out additional due 
diligence checks in its letter dated 10 August 2021. It mentioned that between 1993  2013, 
Mrs M had money in another account with Fidelity. This account had over £800,000 added 
and withdrawn during this period. When Mrs M paid a further four figure amount into her 
account on 18 December 2020, this took her total gross contributions across all of her 
Fidelity accounts above an internal threshold, which triggered a need for additional checks. 
Here's how I see things. Fidelity was required to have in place effective measures for 
ensuring compliance with its regulatory requirements and it was entitled to establish its own 
internal processes for that purpose. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs M didnt think Fidelity had any legitimate grounds for making its 
information request, I cant fairly say it wasnt entitled to ask her for information to satisfy 
itself that it had discharged its own regulatory obligations. It had in place a process to flag up 
the need for additional checks from time to time and this prompted the Additional 
Information Request to be sent. Overall, I havent seen enough here to persuade me that 
Fidelity operated its processes in a way that meant its information request sent to Mrs M on 
28 May 2021 was unfair or unreasonable.But I do think it failed to manage Mrs Ms concerns as well as it could have done. Fidelity 
acknowledged it failed to reply to her secure message sent on 7 June 2021  it has since 
said this isnt correct, and it did reply the same day. I think thats a fair point  there was an 
exchange of emails all dated 7 June 2021. But I can see that matters were left unresolved 
after Mrs Ms final email sent on 7 June 2021. And it looks like her next communication from 
Fidelity was a month or so later on 8 July 2021.
Unfortunately, this meant there was very little time left to sort things out before the 
restrictions were placed on her account  which happened on 15 July 2021. 
On 23 July 2021, Fidelity told Mrs M:
we do need to understand your source of wealth before the account restrictions can be 
lifted. The Form is the mechanism we use to make it easy for clients to provide information in 
a structured way. I can see that you have offered to renew your KYC (know your client) 
information and reaffirm your source of funds information and we appreciate that. To move 
forward, we can:
 Accept a copy of the Form completed to an extent you are comfortable with, and in line 
with your agreement to reaffirm your source of funds information; or
 Arrange a telephone call with you, a Relationship Manager, and a specialist to talk through 
each of the sections within the Form, with us capturing the information during the call.
Our specialists will then review the information and only revert to you for additional 
information if required.
As far as I can see, this was the first time Fidelity had given any intimation to Mrs M that it 
did not expect her to provide everything shown on the form  but by then, the account 
restrictions were already in place, which seems unfair to me.
Fidelity also wrote to Mrs M on 3 September 2021 and said We recognise that the form 
gives the appearance that all of the information asked for is mandatory, when in fact some of 
the things mentioned are examples. This means that not all of the information is required to 
be submitted.. 
As Mrs M had made it clear on 5 June 2021 that she was unhappy with the amount of 
information being asked for, I think this information could reasonably have been shared with 
Mrs M much sooner. 
If Mrs M had understood from the start that there was some flexibility in terms of what was 
required, I think its likely she might have felt able to reach a compromise around the level of 
information Fidelity would accept. And had Fidelity maintained communication with Mrs M 
and responded more promptly, whilst it seems unlikely its response would have satisfied all 
of Mrs Ms concerns, at the very least, the course of events that followed might have 
happened sooner and overall, things could have been brought to an earlier conclusion. This 
could have lessened the impact on Mrs M of the worry she had when she was blocked from 
using her account for two months between 15 July 2021  15 September 2021  a time 
when she became very anxious about being able to access money that she needed to move.
When it was clear that Fidelity mightve been interested in a person linked to Mrs M, who 
was also a Fidelity customer, I think the onus was on Fidelity, as the financial business 
seeking information it required, not to have missed opportunities to follow up avenues that 
could have resulted in the matter being resolved sooner. Fidelity said that, prior to data provided on 14 September 2021, it had limited access to 
some identification information but no confirmation as to either customers occupation or 
source of wealth (as it explained in its letter of 10 August). Once a link was provided to 
Fidelity (about the other person linked to Mrs M) this helped confirm that it was profiling the 
right individual. Fidelity was then in a position to obtain data elsewhere about career history 
(roles, length of service and financials) which led to it considering it had sufficient 
satisfactory information to remove the block on Mrs Ms account.
This suggests to me that the bulk of the information Fidelitys form seemed to suggest Mrs M 
had to provide was simply irrelevant in her particular circumstances because when Fidelity 
saw online information about the person she was linked to, it lifted her account restriction 
shortly afterwards. 
I think it is unfair that it wasnt made clear to Mrs M much sooner that this was an alternative 
way to sort things out without the need for Mrs M having to provide private information when 
she had made it very clear she did not want to disclose this to Fidelity.   
And had Fidelity been more proactive and taken reasonable steps to identify and check out 
what it needed to know about the person linked to Mrs M then it seems likely much of the 
time the account was blocked could have been avoided  and possibly, it might not have 
been blocked at all. Specifically, had Fidelity first picked up on this in July 2021 (when Mrs M 
mentioned but omitted to include the link) I think it could have found out the information 
before 14 September 2021 when the link was provided. 
I've taken into account that from as early as 7 June Fidelity was inviting Mrs M to engage 
and it made suggestions and provided her with contact phone numbers for its wealth team 
and her personal relationship manager. It tried phoning in an attempt to try and sort things 
out by speaking directly - and possibly, that might have been helpful in resolving things more 
quickly. 
But the emails Mrs M was sending also allowed for quick and direct communication and 
I dont think that respecting Mrs Ms wish to conduct all communication in writing added any 
significant delay to the overall length of time it took before the account was unblocked.
Fidelity has said it is not persuaded overall that there are sufficient grounds for it to be asked 
to pay for trouble and upset.
But I respectfully take a different view. I say this because I think £400 reflects the 
understandable degree of anxiety and stress it is evident that Mrs M experienced as a result 
of Fidelity restricting her access to her account for two months when I think that could have 
been at least partly avoided had Fidelity been more proactive about identifying and obtaining 
the information it relied on to unblock the account  which, notably, wasnt what it originally 
asked for. Mrs M hasnt shown me that she suffered any specific financial loss as a result of being 
denied access to her account. And I am aware that before lifting the block completely in 
September 2021, a week or so earlier Fidelity removed restrictions temporarily a couple of 
times to allow stock transfers to proceed.  
But given what was at stake so far as Mrs M was concerned, bearing in mind she needed 
access to money for a significant property purchase and to provide financial support to a 
close family member in difficult circumstances, I think £400 reflects that this was a 
particularly stressful situation that Fidelity should have handled better and more quickly.
I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mrs M hoped for, she will at least feel that her complaint 
has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Putting things right
Fidelity should pay an amount of £400 compensation to Mrs M to reflect the impact its 
actions and delays it was responsible for had on Mrs M when she was caused significant 
distress and upset as a result of its information demands and whilst her account was 
blocked.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part and direct Financial Administration Services Limited to 
pay Mrs M £400 as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman