DRN-3325874
The complaint
Miss B complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) unfairly added a 
late payment marker to her credit file with regard to her buy to let mortgage. She also said a 
Bank of Scotland (BoS) employee was rude to her and hung up the phone when she was 
trying to resolve the matter.
What happened
Miss B is a professional landlord and derives her income from her portfolio of let properties. 
Miss B took a buy to let mortgage with BoS in 2019 for approximately £312,000, over 
approximately 22 years.
In a telephone conversation with BoS on 23 October 2020, Miss B asked whether shed 
taken the full six months covid related payment holiday and was told she had. She then 
asked about moving her payment back as she has no tenants in her property. During the call 
she also asked about making a partial payment in November.
Miss B called BoS again on 11 November 2020 and said shed agreed an arrangement to 
pay £100 in November, but the full contractual monthly payment (CMP) was taken. BoS 
explained that a payment arrangement was discussed on 23 October 2021, but not agreed. 
Miss B was adamant that an arrangement had been made so BoS logged a complaint about 
that.
BoS called Miss B on 12 November 2020 to confirm that having listened to the call 
recording, no arrangement was made on 23 October 2020. Miss B then arranged for BoS to 
take only £100 for the December payment and £100 for the January 2021 payment.
On 8 February 2021 Miss B made payments to her mortgage to bring the account up to date. 
But she subsequently found that an arrears marker had been added to her credit file for 
January 2021. Miss B complained to BoS.
In its final response letter dated 2 March 2021, BoS explained that it had a duty to post the 
correct information to credit reference agencies about Miss Bs payments. It also said Miss B 
could add a notice of correction to her credit file explaining the arrears marker.
Miss B called BoS to discuss the issue on 3 March 2021. BoS explained that it had made no 
error in its reporting to the credit reference agencies  so it wouldnt amend the information it 
had reported. Miss B explained that shed received a medical diagnosis around the time of 
the reduced payments and asked if BoS could remove the marker as a gesture of goodwill. 
BoS said it couldnt do that. The call was ended by BoS after the conversation became 
repetitive. 
Dissatisfied with BoSs response to her complaint, Miss B asked us to consider it. Our 
investigator found that BoS had not made an error in the reporting of Miss Bs payment 
history and it told her in advance that a reduced payment arrangement would affect her 
credit file. She also found that BoSs agent wasnt rude or unhelpful during Miss Bs call of 3 
March 2021. So, she didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B didnt accept our investigators findings. She said shed like her complaint referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision and shed like the following taken into account:
This complaint shouldnt be considered in isolation as the actions of another lender  
about which we are also considering in a separate complaint  caused her financial 
difficulty and led to her needing the reduced payment arrangement.
Miss Bs health condition was sensitive information and she didnt want to disclose 
that until late into the complaint process.
Miss B had a disability which is a protected characteristic under the Equality Act 
2010. BoS didnt make a reasonable adjustment for that and so shouldnt have added 
the arrears marker to her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Miss Bs complaint Ive considered whether BoS told her that the reduced 
payment arrangement would affect her credit file; whether BoS accurately reported her 
payment history to the credit reference agencies; and whether her personal, financial or 
health circumstances at the time should have had an influence on that. Ive also considered 
whether BoSs agent handled the telephone call of 3 March 2021 reasonably.
From all that Ive read, I understand that the time leading up to Miss Bs payment 
arrangement was a particularly challenging one for her. Shes disclosed the nature of her 
health condition and its clear that she would have experienced a substantial amount of 
worry and distress at that time. In addition, I can see that the covid pandemic was 
particularly damaging to her financial stability due to her reliance on her rental portfolio for 
income. And because of that reliance, I understand that this complaint is very important to 
her.
However, lenders are required to report the payment history of their borrowers accurately to 
credit reference agencies, irrespective of the wider circumstances. So, unless the lender was 
the cause of the late or missed payments, I wouldnt direct it to alter the payment history it 
reported  as long as that was accurate.
It isnt disputed that Miss B only paid  by prior arrangement  £100 in December 2020 and 
£100 in January 2021. Miss Bs contractual monthly payment was approximately £750. So, 
after January 2021s payment was due, Miss Bs mortgage account was more than one 
month in arrears. Having carefully looked at the copies of Miss Bs credit file provided, Im 
satisfied BoS reported Miss Bs mortgage account was one month in arrears in          
January 2021. So, I think it did report Miss Bs payment history accurately.
I understand Miss B did make payments so that her account was brought up to date in 
February 2021. But I wouldnt expect that to have altered the status of the account for 
January 2021, even though I understand the marker for January 2021 didnt appear on her 
credit file until after she made Februarys payments. It is my understanding that there is 
ordinarily a delay of approximately one month before reported information will show on credit 
files.
I would expect a lender to inform a borrower if actions they were about to take would affect 
their credit file. So, I listened to Miss Bs call with BoS on 12 November 2020 when the 
reduced payment arrangement was made. There was a discussion about reporting to credit 
reference agencies. BoS said any arrears will be reported. Miss B disagreed with that saying that shouldnt be the case if an arrangement was in place. But BoS was adamant that it had 
a legal obligation to report the account status accurately. That issue was left with Miss B 
saying if a marker was added shed call back to get it removed.
I think BoS did all it could during that conversation to inform Miss B that it would report the 
status of her mortgage account accurately, even if arrears were the result of an 
arrangement. It was clear Miss B didnt agree, but it was her decision to proceed with the 
reduced payment arrangement, albeit that I understand, from an affordability point of view, 
she may have had little choice.
Ive also listened to a recording of Miss Bs conversation with BoS on 3 March 2021. During 
the call BoS reiterated what it had said in its final response letter  that it had reported 
information correctly and that Miss B could add a letter of correction to the credit file. Miss B 
said she wanted to escalate the complaint and BoS said she could refer the matter to this 
Service. The conversation did become unproductive and repetitive, so BoS eventually ended 
the call, having warned Miss B that it would.
While Miss B did become frustrated during the call, I didnt think BoS handled it 
unreasonably. I didnt hear that it was rude and I think it did offer helpful information, though 
that was limited due to the lack of options open to Miss B. While I understand that having 
BoS end the call against Miss Bs wishes would have been frustrating, I dont think it was an 
unreasonable action as the conversation had become unproductive and BoS did warn her 
beforehand.
I would also like to comment on the points Miss B has asked us to take into consideration. 
As Ive explained, a lender is required to report account history to credit reference agencies 
accurately. The cause of the payment history isnt usually relevant unless the lender itself 
has made an error leading to the negative marker. So, where Miss B says she was 
experiencing financial difficulty as a result of another lender, that has no bearing on what 
BoS was required to report.
Miss B has also said she believes her health condition was a disability that is a protected 
characteristic under the Equality Act 2010. Irrespective of whether shes correct in that belief, 
I havent seen that BoS has discriminated against her. And I know of no rule that suggests 
any protected characteristic means the person it applies to is exempt from accurate reporting 
to their credit file. At the time the arrangements were made that led to the arrears, the 
business wasnt aware of Miss Bs health condition. But in any event, Im satisfied it took her 
circumstances into account and was acting fairly by agreeing to the payment arrangements 
in December and January. Where a borrower is in difficulty, Id expect the lender to take 
account of the individual circumstances and demonstrate appropriate forbearance. But that 
doesnt mean that lender is not still obliged to report accurately to credit reference agencies. 
So, I dont think BoS has acted unfairly un that regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman