DRN-2851683
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc withdrew his credit card shortly after it had opened 
the account for him. He says its made a mistake in linking him to some adverse credit 
information, and he wants it to put that right.
What happened
Mr A said that he applied for a credit card with Santander, and was approved. He tried to use 
the card in a store, but it was declined. Santander had decided to withdraw the card, 
because of adverse information found on his credit file. 
Mr A said Santander was linking him with someone else, who had a similar name but a 
different date of birth. He wanted Santander to acknowledge it had made a mistake and 
clear his record.
Santander said that it had found some adverse data on Mr As credit file. The file said he had 
another name, and had been living at a different address. Santander said it had shared this 
name and address with Mr A, so he could also see the adverse information it had based its 
decision on. And Santander said Mr A had confirmed to it that hed been living temporarily at 
this address. 
Santander said it had acted in line with the terms of Mr As card, and it had decided to 
withdraw his card. Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Santanders terms 
set out that it will do a credit search when someone applies for a form of credit, like this. And 
it can withdraw the card for a number of reasons set out in its terms, including if it thinks that 
theres a significantly increased risk that it wont get its money back. So our investigator said 
that Santander can review who it gives a card to, and it can change its mind.
Our investigator understood that Mr A thought Santander has confused him with someone 
else. Santander has set out the alias and the address that Mr A is linked to, so he can find 
this entry. Our investigator said Santander didnt report this information to credit reference 
agencies in the first place, so it wouldnt be responsible for removing it. Our investigator 
thought that Santander had tried to help Mr A find this information for himself, and thats all 
Santander could do.
Mr As representative had already explained that Mr A didnt agree, so our investigator said 
that this case would be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. It then came to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr A has been very clear that the name linked to his credit file, at one of his old addresses, 
wasnt him, and the adverse data that Santander can see there isnt anything to do with him. 
He wants Santander to clear his name.
I dont know if the adverse information linked to Mr A is right. I do understand just how 
important this is to Mr A, but I think its important to remember that Im only dealing here with 
a complaint about what Santander has done. And we do know that Santander didnt record 
that information on Mr As credit file. So it isnt responsible for that adverse data being there. 
As our investigator said, because Santander didnt put that there, Santander cant have that 
removed. 
I do think Santander is allowed to take account of what it can see on Mr As credit file when it 
makes decisions about whether or not to lend to him. If hes concerned about whats on that 
file, then he needs to discuss this with the relevant credit reference agency.
I can see that Santander decided it would lend to Mr A, then changed its mind very quickly. 
But Santander is allowed to review its own lending decisions, and to change its mind. I can 
quite understand that this would be difficult and upsetting for Mr A, because he found out 
about this when he tried to use the card. But I dont think that makes what Santander has 
done unreasonable or unfair. 
I can see that Santander has given Mr A the information he needs so he can locate the 
adverse data which caused Santander to change its mind about lending to him. Ive 
explained that if Mr A wants to make sure that his credit file doesnt carry any incorrect 
information, he needs to discuss that with the credit reference agency that Santander told 
him about. But this complaint is against Santander, and as Ive said, Santander cant fix this 
for him.
For those reasons, I dont think that Santander needs to do anything more here. So, 
although I know Mr A will be disappointed, I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman