DRN-3761134
The complaint
Ms B complains about the service provided by Foundation for Credit Counselling trading as 
Stepchange Debt Charity (Stepchange) when she called for debt advice. 
What happened
Last year, Ms B spoke with Stepchange. During the call, Stepchanges agent asked Ms B if 
she needed debt advice. Ms B responded, saying I dont know. But instead of discussing 
Ms Bs finances, the agent went on to update Stepchanges records so no further contact 
would be made with her. Ms B went on to raise a complaint with Stepchange. Ms B said she 
thought the agent had been rude and discriminated against her. 
Stepchange listened to Ms Bs call with its agent but didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Ms B 
went on to refer her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator to look at. 
The investigator thought Stepchanges agent had misheard Ms Bs answer when they spoke 
which led to them ending the call early. The investigator didnt think Stepchange had 
discriminated against Ms B. 
Ms B didnt agree with the investigators view so her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms B felt the call with Stepchange ended too soon and was 
unsatisfactory. Ms B called for debt advice but the call ended early, without any help being 
offered. Ms Bs told us she thinks Stepchanges agent discriminated against her during the 
call. Ive listened to Ms Bs call, but I think there was a genuine misunderstanding. 
During the call, the agent asked Ms B if she needed debt advice. Ms B responded by saying 
I dont know but the agent appears to have heard this as no instead. The agent said they 
would amend the systems so Ms B wouldnt be contacted again in future. The agent 
confirmed what they were doing and asked Ms B if that was ok. Ms B didnt ask the agent to 
do anything else and the call ended after information about how to complain was provided.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms B as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter. And I dont 
seek to minimise how the situation made Ms B feel. But, having listened to the call, I think 
there was a misunderstanding and that the agent misheard Ms B. Whilst I agree this was 
unfortunate, my view is it was most likely a genuine mistake. I know Ms B found the agent to 
be rude, but I felt they remained professional and courteous. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms B as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter. But as Im 
satisfied Stepchange dealt with Ms Bs complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman