DRN-2848012
The complaint
Mr L, Miss L1 and Miss L2 complain that Chubb European Group SE unfairly declined their 
travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr L, and his daughters Miss L1 and Miss L2, have the benefit of an annual personal 
accident and travel insurance policy through Mr Ls employer. This policy is underwritten by 
Chubb.  
Mr Ls daughters were attending a school abroad on a 9-month long study programme. Due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic their school was required to close on 15 March 2020. Mr Ls 
daughters had to leave the country and return home. 
Mr L submitted a claim to Chubb for the costs of their flights (and luggage) home. But Chubb 
declined the claim. It said that the policy provided cover for business and holiday trips, but 
Mr Ls daughters were not on a trip of this nature as they were residing abroad during school 
term time.
Mr L wasnt happy with this response, so he brought this complaint to our service. He argues 
that the policy includes cover for reasonable costs necessarily incurred in repatriating an 
insured person to their normal residence in their country of domicile. He says that his 
daughters do not ordinarily reside in the country their study programme was based in. And 
that the policy defines a journey as being any trip of less than 12 months duration. So he 
feels Chubb should meet this claim.
Our investigator considered his complaint but didnt feel Chubb had unfairly or unreasonably 
declined this claim. The investigator said that the policy schedule made it clear travel 
insurance cover only applied to business and holiday travel. And didnt think Miss L1 and 
Miss L2s trip fell into either of these categories.
Mr L disagrees. He feels that the phrase business or holiday means the policy covers 
business travel as well as non-business travel. And thinks a travel abroad school programme 
of limited duration would therefore be included in cover. He also said that Chubbs travel 
insurance policy with repatriation is advertised to students studying abroad and provided us 
with a link to its website.
The case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr L and his daughters will likely be disappointed, but Ive reached the same 
conclusions our investigator did here. I dont think Chubb has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in declining this claim. Ill explain why.
When reaching my decision, Ive given regard to industry rules set out by the regulator which 
say that an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly, and shouldnt unreasonably reject 
a claim.
Mr L says that when Chubb declined this claim they referred to the fact his daughters 
appeared to be residing abroad whilst attending school. Mr L doesnt agree with this 
statement, he argues they were only abroad to attend their 9-month study programme, and 
their normal place of residence is their home country. 
I dont think I need to decide whether or not I consider Mr Ls daughters were residing 
abroad at the time the events leading to this claim occurred in order to make a decision on 
this case. I say this because its also clear Chubb doesnt believe the purpose for which they 
were abroad is, in any event, covered by its policy. 
Mr L has said that he feels the policy covers journey as any trip that does not exceed 12 
months duration. And hes pointed out that his daughters had only been abroad for 6 months 
when they had to return home.
The policy defines Journey as:
Any trip, other than a period of Secondment over 12 months, described in the Schedule of 
Benefits and including a Charity Trip or Incentive Trip, which:
a. commences during the Period of Insurance; and
b. is not intended, without the prior written agreement of the Insurer, to exceed 12 months 
duration.
This definition limits a journey to being a trip as described in the Schedule of Benefits.
The Schedule of Benefits states that Mr L and his daughters have cover for Business and/or 
holiday travel (Any Business and/or holiday trip).  
To be covered by this policy a journey must therefore be a business or holiday trip not 
intended to exceed 12 months duration. 
Mr L has told us he believes that the reference to business or holiday trips means the policy 
covers both business and non-business travel and should therefore extend to cover this 
claim. But Chubb doesnt agree.
Business is defined in the policy as The Business of the Policyholder as defined in the 
Schedule. The Policyholder being Mr Ls employer. Its clear Mr Ls daughters were not on a 
business trip and the parties havent suggested otherwise. 
The term holiday isnt defined in the policy. So Ive considered what I think is the ordinary 
and natural meaning of this phrase. Whilst I appreciate Mr L may disagree, I think that a 
holiday is generally associated with leisure. And the Cambridge English dictionary defines a 
holiday as being a time when someone does not go to work or school but is free to do what 
they want, such as travel or relax. 
Mr Ls daughters had travelled abroad to attend school. So I dont think its unreasonable for 
Chubb to say that the purpose of their stay wasnt linked to business or holiday travel as is 
covered by the policy. Mr L has pointed out that Chubb advertises travel insurance cover for students studying 
abroad, and hes directed us to a link on its website. However, Chubb has explained that this 
link relates to a different policy, not the policy Mr L and his daughters had cover under here. 
So the fact that Chubb provides cover for students on international study programmes under 
other policies isnt relevant to the circumstances of this individual case.
I do empathise with Mr L and his daughters. I appreciate they incurred unexpected costs 
through no fault of their own as a result of Miss L1 and Miss L2s school being closed due to 
the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. But that doesnt automatically mean Chubb should 
cover this claim. 
For the reasons outlined above, Ive concluded that Chubb acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of its policy when it declined this claim. And I dont think there are any fair and 
reasonable grounds for me to ask it to depart from these terms and conditions. So I wont be 
asking it to reconsider its decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L1, Miss L2 
and Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman