DRN-4452340
The complaint
Miss D complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Amazon Card has unfairly applied a default to 
her account. 
What happened
Miss D contacted her bank to claim back payments made to a subscription service that she 
said she hadnt agreed to. She says the subscription charges were added to her NewDay 
credit card even though she had closed the account. She says that she paid her credit card 
by direct debit but wasnt aware of the ongoing charges and her account went into arrears.
NewDay issued a final response to Miss D dated 25 June 2023 not upholding her complaint. 
It said that due to arrears on Miss Ds account it sent her a default noticed dated 17 
December 2022 which set out the payment that needed to be made by 7 January 2023 to 
prevent further action being taken. It said it withdrew the credit facilities to prevent further 
purchases being made and on 7 January 2023 it informed Miss D that her account had been 
passed to a debt collection agency. On 10 January 2023 it sent Miss D a letter telling her of 
its intention to register a default with the credit reference agencies. On 31 January 2023, 
NewDay says Miss Ds account was sold to a third party. 
Miss D wasnt satisfied with NewDays response and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted that Miss D was sent letters before 
action was taken and that it was her responsibility to check her statements and pay any 
amounts owing. 
Miss D responded to our investigators view saying that she wasnt aware that NewDay 
administered her credit card, and she thought her credit card was administered by the 
retailer to which the subscription was being paid.
Our investigator issued a second view addressing the issue Miss D had raised. He said that 
on a call on 10 December 2022, it was made clear to Miss D that she was talking to NewDay 
and that it provided the credit card. It was suggested she contact the retailer about the 
subscription payments as NewDay couldnt raise a dispute until she had tried to cancel the 
subscription. He also noted that the credit agreement Miss D signed set out this was with 
NewDay. Therefore, he didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Miss D didnt accept our investigators view and so her case has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss D is upset that her credit file has been affected by the issue of 
the subscription payments. But this complaint is against NewDay and for me to uphold this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that NewDay had done something wrong or treated 
Miss D unfairly.
Miss D has said that she wasnt aware that the credit card on which the subscription 
payments were added was provided by NewDay. I have looked at the credit agreement and 
this is clearly set out as being with NewDay with the retailer acting as the credit intermediary. 
Therefore, I accept that Mrs D should have been reasonably aware that she had entered into 
a credit agreement with NewDay. 
NewDay has said that when Miss D was accepted for the credit card, she would have been 
sent an email and text advising her to register her account online. I understand that Miss D 
didnt do this and so she may not have been aware of the transactions on her credit card. 
However, Miss D set up the account and it was her responsibility to ensure she checked her 
statements and made the required payments (or raised any disputes in regard to the 
transactions).
I have listened to the call on 10 December 2022, and Miss D says she shouldnt have been 
charged for the subscription as she never agreed to it. She is told that she will need to try to 
cancel the subscription with the retailer and that NewDay cant do this and that it cant do 
anything further until Miss D has attempted to cancel the subscription. Miss D says that she 
hadnt looked at her statements and wasnt aware of the subscription charges and that she 
thought her account was closed. It was explained that the subscription charges have been 
applied for an extended period and she was then provided with the retailers number so 
Miss D could contact it to cancel the subscription. Miss D queries which company she is 
talking to, and it is explained that she is talking to NewDay and that it is the provider of the 
credit card on behalf of the retailer. I can hear from the call that Miss D is confused by this, 
but I find that the credit agreement was clear in who the credit provider was and that the 
adviser also explained this to her.
Miss D was sent notification by NewDay that her account would close in October 2022 and 
after this date she would not be able to make transactions on her card but that she will still 
be responsible for making the repayments. The letter explained that the account was being 
replaced by a new brand and that direct debit payments would continue as set up. 
Miss D was then sent a letter dated 13 December 2022 confirming that her direct debit had 
been cancelled. At that point the outstanding balance on her account was zero. However, 
following her discussion with NewDay in December 2022, she raised a direct debit indemnity 
claim through her bank and so payments that had been made to her credit card were 
reversed resulting in an outstanding balance on her account. I appreciate that Miss D may 
not have realised this would be the result of her indemnity claim but I do not find I can say 
that NewDay did anything wrong in regard to this.
NewDay sent Miss D a notice of default dated 17 December 2022 explaining the amount she 
needed to pay by 7 January to prevent further action being taken. It then explained what 
could happen if payment wasnt made. As payment wasnt received NewDay sent Miss D a 
letter dated 7 January 2023, saying it had terminated her account and the full balance was 
now due. A further letter was sent dated 10 January saying that a default would be 
registered if Miss D didnt make the required payment within 28 days. I note Miss Ds 
comment that she didnt receive letters from NewDay as she was away for a period of time. 
But as NewDay sent letters about the status of Miss Ds account and provided her with 
information about what was needed to prevent further action being taken, I do not find I can 
say that NewDay did anything wrong by taking the action it did. 
I know my decision will be disappointing for Miss D and I can see that this issue has caused 
confusion in regard to the transactions on her account. But having looked through the evidence I do not find I can say that NewDay was wrong to take the action it did and 
therefore I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman