DRN-3400808
The complaint
Mr J complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan in 2017.
Pensionhelp Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to Pensionhelp.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Js employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr J was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security of 
his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to 
Pensionhelp which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as 
follows:
Mr J was 58 years old, married and with no dependent children. He was described as 
being in good health and at the time of the advice he had accrued over 11 years of 
pension benefits with the BSPS.
Mr J lived in a home valued at around £250,000 with no mortgage outstanding. 
Mr and Mrs J earned around £38,000 and £25,000 per year respectively. After 
expenses they had some disposable income left over. Mr J had easy access savings 
of £5,000 and no other assets or liabilities.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Js BSPS was approximately 
£150,899. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Pensionhelp set out its advice in a suitability report on 17 November 2017. In this it advised 
Mr J to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. 
Pensionhelp said this would allow Mr J to achieve his objectives. Mr J accepted this advice 
and so transferred out. In 2021 Mr J complained to Pensionhelp about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr J referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, Pensionhelp said it hadnt done anything wrong 
and was acting on the financial objectives Mr J had at the time. Pensionhelp later also 
implied there had been no loss incurred by Mr J.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pensionhelp's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Pensionhelp should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Js best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
Pensionhelp referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, Pensionhelp used the existing scheme (BSPS) for 
the critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. This doesnt fundamentally affect the outcome, but  I think its important to point out that 
Pensionhelp could have taken time to compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with transferring 
out, rather than just using the current BSPS for comparisons. 
I say this because many weeks before this advice, which was dated 17 November 2017, 
BSPS members had been told that if the RAA was approved, they would have a choice  to 
move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF with the old scheme. A newsletter had 
also been put on a microsite that had been set up to support BSPS members and more 
details of the BSPS2 had emerged by the time Pensionhelp produced its suitability report. 
Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were being proposed at that very point, 
but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar complaints to 
this one. And as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer an option, using the 
existing scheme rather than the new one, to make comparisons with, wasnt giving Mr J the 
best opportunity to make an informed decision about what to do. I think its also fair to say 
that despite some uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be between 
the BSPS and PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme (BSPS).
Having said all that, Pensionhelp said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at 
the age of 65 in the BSPS, was 15.7% if Mr J took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If 
taking a tax-free lump sum, the critical yield was 12.48%. In my view, it should have been 
obvious to Pensionhelp that these critical yield figures were high and probably not 
achievable.
Indeed, our investigator pointed out that in its suitability report, Pensionhelp implied it 
wouldnt recommend transferring away on the basis of the critical yields alone. He also said 
this somewhat understated the issue  and I agree. In my view, it was very clear that 
growing a personal pension in excess of these critical yield rates was most unlikely - and 
there would be little point in Mr J transferring out to a personal pension plan only to receive 
lower overall benefits at retirement. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 3.3% per year for 6 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below the critical yield 
figures Ive referred to above. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate 
was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. 
At the time, Pensionhelp assessed Mr Js attitude to risk (ATR) as adventurous (or level 7 
out of 10). But everything Ive seen shows Mr J had absolutely no experience of these types 
of investments. In fact, I think any reasonable assessment of Mr Js circumstances would 
have placed him in a much lower ATR category, especially as he had only around six more 
years to retirement left and that this fairly moderate pension represented the majority of his 
retirement savings. In a whole host of ways, Mr J couldnt afford to take risks. 
Pensionhelp says the ATR of 7/10 was arrived at by using a matrix created by a large fund 
provider. But Pensionhelps role here was to interpret the written answers Mr J gave to 
certain hypothetical investment questions on the form and to realistically use these alongside his actual circumstances, experience and knowledge. Pensionhelp should have factored in 
that when answering questions about investments, he had no experience to draw upon. In 
short, I think he was placed in an ATR category which was far too high.
So, I think a growth assumption at the lower end of the regulators projections and also close 
to the discount rate was most relevant here. This was substantially below the critical yield 
figures for the BSPS, so I think this too showed that achieving the critical yield(s), year-on-
year, upon transferring out just wasnt likely. 
In addition to all these things, Ive also noted that Pensionhelp said that in order to purchase 
an annuity to provide all the benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at 
age 65, the funds required would be around £362,000 if taking a full pension and £299,000 if 
taking a pension and lump sum. These sums were much higher than Mr Js CETV, so I think 
they provide a revealing window into the value of the benefits Mr J was being advised to give 
up by transferring away.
Although Pensionhelp wasnt as clear as it should have been about this when advising Mr J, 
it did tell him it wouldnt recommend a transfer on the basis of the critical yield figures alone. 
And clearly, having said this in 2017, it would be very hard for it now to argue these growth 
rates were achievable.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, Pensionhelp also made mention of the PPF, which it 
described as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when 
the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. Pensionhelp said the critical yields to match 
the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But they were still around 10%. 
These yields also related to the reduced benefits available with the PPF and Pensionhelp 
itself says Mr J wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to 
remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension such 
as the one being recommended to Mr J, would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Pensionhelps 
own figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr J would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, Pensionhelp 
should have waited and recalculated the comparisons for Mr J when the situation with 
BSPS2 became clear  we know this was imminent. 
Ive also considered some projections Pensionhelp used to help show that if he transferred 
out to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr J well into retirement. Again, I think most of 
these were based on growth projections which were unrealistic given his actual ATR. Its 
also fair to say these were certainly not comparing like-with-like. What Pensionhelp was 
showing Mr J were comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a 
DB scheme. 
Of course, according to Pensionhelp, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, Pensionhelp said Mr J also had other reasons to transfer away, so 
Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectivesPensionhelp recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr 
Js wider objectives. I have summarised the following themes as supporting the 
recommendation to transfer away:
Pensionhelp said Mr J wanted flexibility to take however much he wanted to from his 
pension, and in ad-hoc amounts.
Pensionhelp said he could have control over the shape of your funds if transferring 
out, and that his current scheme wasnt flexible enough.
It said he wanted to grow his pension, so the recommendation to invest in certain 
money market funds could achieve this.
It said the death benefits were more suited to Mr Js circumstances.
Reference was also made to Mr J maximising the tax-free lump sum he could take in a 
personal pension plan. So, it seems the supporting reasons that Pensionhelp recommended 
the transfer out to a personal pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr J. I 
have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Flexibility and control
I cant see that Mr J required flexibility in retirement in the way suggested, but in any event, 
flexibility was poorly defined by Pensionhelp. I therefore think this was no more than a 
stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan.
Mr J had already told Pensionhelp that his expectation was that hed work on until the age of 
65 before retiring. He was 58 years old at the time and Ive seen nothing that shows he had 
made concrete retirement plans. However, in my view Pensionhelp hadnt comprehensively 
assessed Mr Js retirement needs. 
As Ive said, the details of the BSPS2 scheme had emerged by the time this advice was 
given and we know anyway that early retirement under the BSPS and the PPF were 
possibilities under their respective rules. So I dont think portraying his existing scheme as 
being so inflexible as to warrant an irreversible transfer-out to a personal plan, was fair. In 
fact, in my view Mr Js circumstances showed his best interests were served by him 
accessing a DB-type pension, such as the BSPS2, in exactly the way it was originally 
designed. 
I say this because Pensionhelp itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS, 
which showed a reasonable, but certainly not a high, retirement income. If retiring at 65, for 
instance, Pensionhelp said Mr J could expect an annual pension of around £8,311. If taking 
a lump-sum of £36,723 his reduced annual pension would be around £5,508. 
These were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because current members were 
being given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) at around the very time this 
advice was being sought. Also in this case, we know Mrs J had very little personal pension 
provision of her own, so the evidence here seems clear to me that a guaranteed DB pension 
for Mr J, eventually complemented by Mr and Mrs Js respective state pensions, would 
represent no more than an adequate retirement income in their case. However, if Mr J s 
aspirations or circumstances changed as he neared the age of 65, and he decided he could 
retire a little earlier, this would have been possible under the BSPS2 (or indeed the PPF). So 
I think it was wrong to imply there were no flexibilities under these other schemes.I dont think Pensionhelp adequately explained these things to Mr J as its advice simply 
discounted him transferring to the new scheme to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined 
and which he didnt need.
I also dont think Pensionhelp took enough account of Mr Js second pension  his 
employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme which he had joined. Mr J and his 
employer were making significant contributions to this of 6% and 10% respectively. So, even 
a few more years worth of being in this pension would have mattered - there could have 
been a reasonable amount in this DC pension to complement his deferred DB scheme (in 
BSPS2). Ive noted he also had another DC pension with a modest sum invested. 
The point Im making here is that Ive seen nothing that shows Mr J had a need for so called 
flexibility in his income going forward. I think the opposite was true and under the auspices of 
a DB scheme and Mr Js other financial resources, I think he could probably hope to enjoy a 
satisfactory retirement from a financial perspective. Whenever he chose to draw his pension 
benefits, on one hand Mr J would have had a long-standing DB pension in the BSPS2 with 
all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brings. And on the other hand, as he 
was intending to work for over six more years hed have built up a reasonable DC pension 
pot, which, if he later found he did require any greater flexibility, this could have helped 
provide this. Ive calculated the contributions paid in six years would have exceeded 
£30,000.
As far as desiring control over his funds, again I think this was poorly defined and no more 
than a stock objective used to help justify the transfer-out advice. Pensionhelp provides no 
evidence whatsoever that Mr J had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control 
over his pension. The evidence here is that Mr Js previous exposure to investing was non-
existent and he could ill afford risk. So, I think hed have been likely to need help with 
exercising any control over these funds. As a consequence of this, hed incur fees and 
charges in the years ahead. And advising Mr J to invest in higher risk funds such as 
commodities and property funds when his retirement horizon was relatively short, just wasnt 
suitable for someone like him. Alternatively, remaining in a DB scheme  such as the BSPS2 
- run by trustees, was the much more suitable option for Mr J. 
I therefore think Mr Js circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. Because he also had a 
smaller second DC pension, this supported that strategy in my view. 
More tax-free cash
In the course of recommending that Mr J should transfer to a personal pension, Pensionhelp 
promoted that Mr J could access more tax-free cash. Its usually the case that more tax-free 
cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this 
is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But 
Pensionhelp should have been telling Mr J at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being 
removed from a personal pension, also came with consequences in that the amount left for 
his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
Theres simply no evidence that Mr J needed to access higher amounts of cash. He had no 
mortgage, for example, nor any debts to pay. And Pensionhelp didnt record any other viable 
reason for Mr J needing large amounts of cash in what at the time was a low interest rate 
environment. Of course, the BSPS2 or PPF would have facilitated a modest tax-free lump 
sum too and a corresponding annual pension. Theres nothing showing this wasnt suitable 
for Mr J.
Death benefits Pensionhelp says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension 
would better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr J died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr J. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have thought it 
was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority here 
was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Pensionhelp explored to what 
extent Mr J was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Mr J was only 58 and in good health and was married. So, I think the likely death benefits 
attached to the DB scheme were substantially underplayed. The spouses pension provided 
by the BSPS2 would have been very useful to Mrs J if Mr J predeceased her. I dont think 
Pensionhelp made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. 
I also cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. 
But at 58 years old, a modest and short term life insurance policy may have still been a 
reasonably affordable product if Mr J really did want to leave a legacy for Mrs J or someone 
else such as a close relative over a shorter period. But more so, it doesnt appear that 
Pensionhelp took into account the fact that Mr J could have nominated a beneficiary of any 
funds remaining in his other DC schemes. So, to this end, Mr J already had some options 
ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
However, a more obvious drawback with a personal plan death benefits is that the amount 
left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to 
withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr J had lived a long life there could be 
nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. I think this 
objective, listed briefly as it was in the suitability letter, was no more than a generic comment 
and not meaningful to Mr Js situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr J, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
Pensionhelp said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and Pensionhelp said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr J was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Pensionhelps obligation to give Mr J an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Pensionhelp 
should have reassured Mr J that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr J through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to Pensionhelps recommendation to Mr J to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
Pensionhelp recommended that Mr J invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr J and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear 
advice had been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the 
DB scheme and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice 
had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr J was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think Pensionhelp ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr J still had a 
few more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr J would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think Pensionhelp should have advised Mr J to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr J would have transferred 
to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Pensionhelp disclosed some of the risks of 
transferring to Mr J, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it 
advised Mr J to transfer out, and I think Mr J relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr J would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Pensionhelps advice. I say this because Mr J was an inexperienced investor and 
this pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Pensionhelp 
had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining 
why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Js concerns about the PPF were so great that he would have 
insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
So if Pensionhelp had explained Mr J was also unlikely to exceed the benefits available to 
him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in 
retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried significant 
weight.
In light of the above, I think Pensionhelp should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Pensionhelps unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice. So, Pensionhelp should use the benefits offered by 
BSPS2 for comparison purposes and compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr J whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He would like 
the complaint to be settled in line with the new guidance / rules. I therefore consider its fair 
that Pensionhelp calculates Mr Js redress in line with new guidance and rules when they 
come into effect. 
Pensionhelp must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as 
soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay 
any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Pensionhelp 
has received notification of Mr Js acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any 
changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Pensionhelp to pay Mr J.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pensionhelp deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. Pensionhelp should give Mr J a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr J asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I have also considered the impact on Mr J of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £250 should be paid to Mr J by Pensionhelp for 
what he referred to as the distress and inconvenience caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive 
taken into consideration Mr Js age and circumstances and also that by retirement this DB 
pension would still have been a significant part of his overall pension entitlement, So I think 
the thought of losing benefits would have negatively impacted Mr J. I therefore agree that 
Pensionhelp should also pay Mr J £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
unsuitable advice which has likely had an impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct 
Pensionhelp Limited to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Pensionhelp Limited to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where 
the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Pensionhelp 
Limited to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Pensionhelp Limited pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Pensionhelp 
Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman