DRN-2265832
The complaint
Mrs B says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a store card in 1999. The 
policy was added to Mrs Bs store card account when she applied for the card. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA didnt respond to the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint because I dont think AXA gave her clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because the policy wouldnt pay disability benefit in 
connection with pre-existing medical conditions that the customer had when they bought the 
policy.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs B because she had a number of medical conditions 
when she bought the policy which wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt have 
claimed on the policy for everything she expected to be covered. But I think its unlikely that 
AXA pointed this out to Mrs B when she bought the policy.
I dont think Mrs B would have bought the policy if shed had enough information about the 
exclusion that affected her. So, I think Mrs B has lost out because of what the business did 
wrong. 
 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs B owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs B would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs B 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs B 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Mrs B in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman