DRN-4020480
The complaint
Mr M says the advice given and the arrangements made by Tavistock Financial Limited, now 
registered as Sanlam Partnerships Limited (SPL), to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
pension into a flexible retirement plan with Prudential was unsuitable.
What happened
Mr M says that he was introduced to SPLs services by a former colleague. Hed received a 
transfer value for his DB scheme and wanted advice about whether to move his benefits.
SPL gathered information from Mr M about his circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk. 
It issued a suitability report dated 29 September 2015. His priorities and objectives were to:
- Review his accrued benefits under his final salary pension scheme.
- Review his personal pension arrangements.
- To obtain a higher tax-free cash (TFC) lump sum at retirement.
- Allow him access to the flexibility offered by the new pension freedom rules.
- Improve the Lump Sum payable on his death before retirement.
- To have total control.
- To make investments for the long-term (10 years plus).
At this point I should note Mr M hasnt raised any concerns about the switch of his personal 
pensions, so the focus of this decision is what happened to his DB pension.
At the time of SPLs advice Mr M was 48 years old. He was married and had one financially 
dependent daughter. He was in full time employment as a sales manager at an estate agent. 
His basic salary was £40,000, with bonuses and commission taking his income to over 
£70,000 a year. His household had a healthy net disposable monthly income.
Mr M and his wife owned their home, which was worth around £120,000, with an outstanding 
mortgage of that amount. They also had two rental properties, both also with mortgages. No 
other savings or investments were recorded. Mr and Mrs M had whole of life and term life 
assurance policies in place providing several hundred thousands of pounds death benefits 
cover.
Mr M was a member of a DB scheme with deferred benefits. He had two paid-up personal 
pensions. And he was contributing to a third policy. In total his pension benefits were 
estimated to be worth around £470,000. By far the most significant element related to his 
final salary scheme.
Mr M had been a member of a former employers DB scheme between 1993 and 2007. Hed 
accrued around 14 years of service. The estimated value of his annual pension at his normal 
retirement age of 60 was said to be £16,000 per year. His benefits enjoyed guarantees such 
as annual indexation and the scheme also provided death benefits including a spouses 
pension. The quoted cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ms benefits was about 
£434,000.
SPLs recommendations were recorded in the following terms:
After consideration of your aims and objectives and attitude to risk, I would make the 
following recommendation: transfer your total pension fund of £473,425.22 from your Final 
Salary and [personal pensions] because: the critical yield of 3.4% shown by the TVAS report 
is achievable by transferring to a personal pension plan and this in turn could produce a 
higher Tax Free Lump Sum on retirement as well as a higher annual pension. The lump sum 
death benefit to your dependent will be paid as a return of fund and will be tax free as 
opposed to a spouse Pension of 66.67% from the [DB] scheme. The transfer will also allow 
you access to the new pension freedom rules without the need to transfer to a new 
contract...
Mr M accepted SPLs recommendations and the transfer of his DB funds took place in 
November 2015, with a slightly reduced CETV of £423,000.
In May 2021 Mr M approached SPL with concerns about what had happened in 2015. These 
included that:
- The advice to transfer from his DB scheme to Prudential in 2015 was unsuitable.
- He shouldve been advised to wait until he was 55 before considering any decision to 
transfer.
- He couldve been advised to take additional life cover as death benefits was cited as 
one of the main reasons for transferring.
- His risk profile was manipulated to a higher level than was appropriate for him.
- The product recommended was not as flexible as hed been advised.
SPL sent Mr M its final response on 18 August 2021. It didnt uphold his complaint. It said 
the advice he had been given met his objectives and priorities. And it said he wouldve 
transferred irrespective of its recommendations because hed made his mind up it was what 
he wanted to do.
Mr M disagreed and brought his case to this Service. An Investigator upheld his complaint. 
He concluded there hadnt been compelling reasons for him to have transferred from his DB 
scheme. He thought SPL shouldve recommended he remain in the scheme. SPL disagreed, 
although it didnt submit any new evidence or arguments.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Ms case 
was passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in February. As neither 
party provided any new evidence or arguments, I see no reason to depart from my initial 
findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ms case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by SPL for Mr M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like SPL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
At the time of the advice SPL gave Mr M, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from DB schemes:
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewhether to transfera firm should start by assuming that a transferwill not be 
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, SPL was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr M to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr M a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr M understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, SPL had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available under 
the DB scheme and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr M on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
Did SPL adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think SPL met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
There are a number of documents relating to SPLs transaction with Mr M that are important 
to my consideration, these include the fact-find, the attitude to risk questionnaire, the 
pension transfer analysis report and the suitability report.
Ill start with Mr Ms recorded top three priorities for retirement planning: tax-free cash (TFC) 
lump sums at retirement; lump sum benefits upon death before retirement; and the ability to 
retire early (from the age of 55).
Its a reasonable assumption Mr M couldve secured a higher level of TFC and more 
flexibility in how he took such benefit if he transferred away from his DB scheme into a 
personal pension. And similarly, in the event of his death prior to retirement, its possible his 
dependants wouldve been in a stronger position financially than if hed remained in the 
scheme. He could also have started to take benefits from the arrangement proposed by SPL 
as soon as he reached 55.
So, on the face of it, a transfer of Mr Ms DB pension appeared a good match with his 
priorities. But the regulators position was clear - the starting point was for SPL to have 
presumed that such a transaction wouldnt be suitable.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think SPL reached a threshold that made its 
recommendation to Mr M to transfer away from his DB scheme safe. I say this because 
while his objectives were reasonable, they didnt need to be realised in 2015.
At the time of the advice Mr M was 48, so it was seven years before he could take any TFC 
from a pension and several years before he needed to take the decision. By transferring 
early he was leaving a situation where the scheme bore most of the risk to one where his 
retirement income was being exposed to investment risk.
Further, there were other options to meet some of his objectives. For example, in terms of 
providing for his family in the unfortunate circumstance of his passing, he couldve increased 
his life cover. Although, I note that he had over £400,000 in protection policies and so 
arguably this was well provided for already. And the transfer of his DB funds had the 
potential to expose his estate to increased inheritance tax had he died within two years of 
the transaction. And in terms of retiring early, Mr Ms DB scheme provided for taking his 
benefits prior to the normal retirement age of 60, albeit with an actuarially reduced pension.
I dont think the timing of Mr Ms decision making, nor the other options for achieving his 
objectives were effectively explored.
SPL needed to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr M about what was in his 
best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to 
provide for an income in retirement. And when a transfer is recommended, there need to be compelling reasons. In terms of Mr Ms stated objectives, I find these didnt provide a 
sufficiently strong rationale for SPL recommending he transfer from his DB scheme.
It was SPLs role to discern what Mr Ms wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. I dont think it 
demonstrably met these obligations because it ended up recommending the transfer to him.
Leaving Mr Ms objectives to one side, Ive thought about whether there were any other 
strong reasons for Mr M to proceed with the transfer. The CETV of £434,000 he was offered 
appeared attractive. It represented around 44 times the annual pension hed accrued up until 
2015. But such values can fluctuate significantly, it wasnt possible to know whether the 
equivalent offer he might receive in a year, five years or seven years would be more or less.
The broader financial case does help understand better what was on the table for Mr M to 
consider. The critical yield is the level of return his new pension plan wouldve needed to 
have achieved in order for the transfer to match his OPS pension benefits at retirement 
(aged 60). The pension transfer report indicated that an annual return of not less than 3.4% 
would be required.
SPLs advice was given during the period when this Service published 'discount rates' on our 
website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was 
being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in Mr Ms case.
So, the critical yield required to match Mr Ms OPS benefits was 3.4%. When the advice was 
given, the relevant discount rate was 4.4% for someone with 11 years to retirement. The 
comparable growth rates this Service used were based on a typical investment spread 
across shares and bonds. So, its arguable, depending on Mr Ms assessed attitude to risk, 
reaching the critical yield couldve been achievable.
Unhelpfully, SPLs suitability report for Mr M faces in different directions in terms of its 
assessment of his attitude to risk. It summarised his outlook in the following terms: 
Your risk is highest medium. Your priority is likely to be making higher returns on your 
investments but you are still probably concerned about losing money due to rises and falls. 
Your preferred investments are likely to contain mainly higher-risk investments such as 
shares with a few lower- and medium-risk investments such as bonds and property.
We established that the attitude to risk for this particular investment could realistically be 
described as Highest Medium Risk (Profile 7 out of 10). After discussion we have therefore 
agreed I would use this risk level when making my recommendation.
And yet later in the suitability report when recommending how Mr Ms funds should be 
invested SPL said:
Based on current market conditions, I recommend the following fund for your Prudential 
pension. The Prufund Growth Fund matches your attitude to risk as it is classed as cautious 
which was highlighted when we discussed your attitude to risk. This provides a mix of funds 
which will give the potential for growth and also match your capacity for loss which we 
agreed was that small medium losses could be tolerated.
To choose the Prufund Growth we used a mapping tool which was produced by Distribution 
Technology and links the Prudentials fund range and products to the risk profiles used on 
the Dynamic Planner platform. The fund is designed for someone who has a cautious or 
moderately cautious attitude to risk like you.Im giving SPL the benefit of the doubt here. I think that while the questionnaire Mr M 
completed returned a result which suggested he had a significant appetite for risk. It didnt 
take matters at face value. It did the right thing by exploring his wider circumstances and 
what laid behind his responses.
So, rather than being someone open to taking a high level of risk, actually Mr M was quite 
cautious. This is important to bear in mind for several reasons. The level of risk he wanted to 
take would determine the investment returns he would make from the new arrangement. So, 
this begins to undermine the financial case for the transfer.
Further, we also need to think about Mr Ms capacity for loss. His DB pension benefits were 
his main provision for an income in retirement. While he had three personal pensions, by 
comparison these were small. Im mindful he also had rental properties, but these appear to 
have been significantly encumbered at the time. Theres nothing recorded in the fact-find 
about significant savings or other investments. So, Mr Ms capacity for loss was actually low. 
This undermines the financial case for transfer again.
And finally, as Ive already mentioned, Mr M was moving from a position where his DB 
scheme bore the risks of providing his income in retirement to a situation where he was 
taking on that risk by exposing his fund to the market. And he was doing so several years 
before he even needed to take such a decision.
Mr M had been offered a good CETV and the initial financial analysis mightve suggested 
there was a good chance hed be better off in the long-run by transferring his funds. But 
given what we know about his cautious attitude to risk and his limited capacity for loss, it 
seems the financial case for transfer was finely balanced. And that was a precarious basis 
on which to recommend a transfer in the circumstances.
Other reasons have been advanced to support the transfer of Mr Ms pension away from his 
DB scheme. For example, to take advantage of new pension flexibilities and to have control 
over his benefits. But as Ive already set out, he was several years away from being able to 
take benefits from his pension. And his attitude to risk was cautious, so why would he want 
to wrest control over his funds away from the scheme?
These supplementary reasons are flimsy. None of them are sufficiently compelling for me to 
think that on balance the transaction was to his advantage.
SPL set out its main argument for rejecting Mr Ms complaint in the following terms:
Having reviewed the documentation available to me it is evident that as an ex-adviser you 
were more knowledgeable regarding pensions, investing and the guarantees within a final 
salary pension scheme than most clients. It also seems clear that you were determined to 
transfer away from the pension scheme and only sought advice because you were required 
to do so and that you wanted to transfer to the Prufund Growth Fund. As a result, I would 
conclude that you would have transferred regardless of the advice you were given and had 
already signed the forms to allow the transfer to take place even before you received the 
advice.
I understand the points being made here by SPL. Elements of its argument are plausible. 
But ultimately I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr M wouldve ignored 
advice not to proceed.
Id observe SPL didnt recommend that Mr M shouldnt transfer his pension. So its on the 
backfoot here. He followed its advice. However strong his motivation was to move his pension provision, that was certainly reinforced by its actions, which wouldve also given him 
reassurance it was the right thing to do.
I think SPL shouldve provided Mr M with fully formed and unequivocal advice not to proceed 
with the transfer from his DB scheme to a personal pension. I say this because it failed to 
reach the required threshold to demonstrate based on contemporary evidence that such a 
transaction was clearly in his best interests. Instead, it recommended that his benefits be 
transferred to a personal pension where he was exposed to unnecessary risk.
SPL couldve advised Mr M against the transfer and then if hed still wanted to proceed it 
couldve transacted with him on an insistent client basis. To do this it wouldve needed to 
communicate with him:
- In terms that were clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for his information needs such that he was able to understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
its personal recommendation.
- The reasons why it wasnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction.
If it had done this Mr M couldve set out in his own words why he still wanted to proceed with 
the transfer, acknowledging also it was against advice. But no such insistent client process 
was followed.
Instead, SPL is asking me to accept arguments it makes about Mr Ms experience of the 
financial services sector and the strength of his motivation and conclude irrespective of what 
it did, hed have proceeded with the transaction anyway.
Considering Mr Ms experience as a financial adviser. I think SPL makes a reasonable point 
when it says that he was likely to be more knowledgeable about pension and investment 
matters than the average person. However, I think its a leap too far to say he understood 
what there was to know about pension transfers at the time of the advice.
I say this because Mr M joined the firm where he built up his DB pension in 1993. At the time 
he was able to give advice on basic pension products. Around 1995 he moved into 
management and wasnt involved in giving advice. And he says from 1998 his employer 
moved out of giving pension advice and focussed on mortgage and protection products. He 
was made redundant in 2007 and by 2011 he says he did explore becoming a financial 
adviser again, but found a role with financial protection products and then moved into 
management. His financial services qualifications related to mortgage products. He had no 
qualifications related to DB transfers.
SPL hasnt done enough to demonstrate that Mr M had the relevant and up to date 
knowledge and experience in 2015 to fully appreciate the complexities of a DB transfer. He 
sought out professional expertise and I think he was entitled to rely on that.
Mr M told this Service hed obtained CETVs for his DB pension in the years prior to the 
disputed recommendation from SPL. He explained hed discussed transferring from the 
scheme with advisers before 2015 but was advised at those points not to transfer, and 
listened to that advice.SPL says it gave Mr M all the necessary risk warnings indicating he was required to take 
responsibility for the decision to transfer. As the Investigator noted, while Mr M wouldve 
understood those warnings, disclosure of risks doesnt of itself make the advice suitable.
SPL has given other examples it says shows Mr M wouldve proceeded with the transfer 
irrespective of its advice. It points to him signing transfer documentation before hed received 
the finalised suitability report. And it says that even though the CETV value reduced by 
around £11,000 towards the end of the advice process and that he sought a kick-back from 
it to offset this effect which it rejected, he still went ahead.
I dont think these are telling points from SPL sufficient to disturb my overall conclusion. I say 
this because Mr M was given the transfer forms in advance and likely had positive 
conversations with the adviser about the transfer. If after signing the forms, hed received 
advice not to transfer, I think hed have followed that recommendation.
Further, I dont find the reduction in CETV to have been material to his consideration. And 
while Mr M mayve sought to use the reduced value as leverage to negotiate a reduced fee, 
even if hed been successful this again wouldve been at the margins of any decision making 
about the significant transaction he was undertaking.
Ive concluded its more likely than not, had SPL given Mr M appropriate advice, he wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the transfer from his DB scheme to a personal pension plan. Its 
unusual for someone to seek professional advice and then go against the recommendations 
received.
To conclude I dont think the recommendation by SPL to transfer Mr Ms occupational 
pension scheme benefits could sensibly be regarded as fair to him. As such I think it failed to 
meet the regulatory requirements placed on it when providing him with such advice and 
making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its fair and reasonable to uphold 
this complaint against SPL and for it to put things right. 
Putting things right
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. Sanlam Partnerships Limited should pay Mr M the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Sanlam Partnerships Limited pays Mr M the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. SPL doesnt have to do what 
I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance-https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He would like 
his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance /rules. I consider its fair that Sanlam 
Partnerships Limited calculates Mr Ms redress in line with new guidance and rules when 
they come into effect.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the DB scheme.
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr M.
Sanlam Partnerships Limited must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated 
methodology as soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to 
calculate and pay any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
Sanlam Partnerships Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr 
Ms SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss would be tax- 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
Sanlam Partnerships Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes SPL to pay Mr M (excepting that arising from delays with DWP SERPS 
adjustment data or related to his choice to wait for updated FCA redress guidance  see 
below).
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sanlam Partnerships Limited deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. It should give 
Mr M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. I now require Sanlam 
Partnerships Limited to put things right as directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman