DRN-3097716
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has settled his
claim for malicious damage.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint last month. This is a summary of those 
findings:
Mr S has a property he rents out. His tenants said they wanted to stay on in the property on 
a monthly rolling basis once their 12 month assured shorthold tenancy expired. They didnt 
sign any paperwork to confirm this.
The tenants didnt pay the first months rent following the end of the shorthold tenancy  and 
when Mr S went to the property, he found it had been damaged and set up as a cannabis 
farm.
Fairmead accepted Mr Ss claim and paid him the maximum available under the policy for 
this sort of damage - £5,000. Mr S thought Fairmead should also pay him lost rental income 
for the period of time that the property was uninhabitable  four months. He said also that 
Fairmead unfairly delayed paying the claim.
Fairmead didnt agree, because it didnt think there was a valid tenancy agreement in place 
when the property became uninhabitable. Mr S asked us to look at the complaint. Our 
investigator thought Mr S should be compensated for four months lost rent. When Fairmead 
still didnt agree I was asked to decide the complaint.
I didnt think dealing with the claim took a particularly long time  it was about nine weeks, 
including the Christmas and New Year breaks.
I thought Mr S should get some compensation for lost rent  but not the equivalent of four 
months. By the time the damage was discovered, the tenants only had to give one months 
notice  and I thought that was effectively served when Mr S discovered they had 
disappeared. I thought Fairmead should pay Mr S the equivalent of one months rent - £775.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead hasnt responded to my provisional decision so I must assume its content with the 
proposal I made.
Mr S did respond. Hes made several points.
He says Fairmead did delay the claim by asking him to provide quotes several times. He 
says he could have got on with things much sooner if it had responded more quickly.  
I can understand Mr Ss frustration  but I still dont think Fairmead added a substantial delay 
to the time it took to settle the claim. As I said, these things can take several weeks. Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
Turning to the claim for rent, Mr S says the damage to his property was done whilst the 
assured shorthold tenancy was running  and the tenants had verbally said they wanted to 
stay on. He says that means there was a valid tenancy in place and he should receive the 
rent he should have got up to the point he completed repairs.
Im afraid that doesnt persuade me to ask Fairmead to pay more than one months rent. The 
policy Mr S has talks about rent due  and I asked Fairmead to pay for the notice period I 
thought was in place once Mr S discovered the damage. That was one month.
I havent seen any new evidence that persuades me the notice period could have been 
interpreted any differently. Thats because  whatever a tenants intentions  once on a 
monthly rolling contract, only one months notice need be given. That means Mr S cant have 
had a legal entitlement to get rent for the four months before repairs were completed, 
whatever the reason for the tenancy coming to an end.
I accept Mr Ss statement that the damage likely took place early in the term of the assured 
shorthold tenancy. But he didnt lose any rent because of that  he told us the tenants paid 
up to the end of the initial tenancy agreement. 
Im afraid that, although I think Fairmead should pay Mr S for the rent he lost in the notice 
period, Im not going to ask it to do more.
Putting things right
 Fairmead should pay Mr S £775 to make up for one months lost rent. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
S £775. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman