DRN-4448093
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund all the money it 
lost when it was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In October 2022, Bs director had been discussing possible investments with Bs accountant, 
and the accountant had suggested investing in a pension scheme. Bs director and the 
accountant exchanged a number of emails before the accountant sent over bank details for 
the investment and B started making payments towards it. B then made a number of 
payments from its Barclays account over the following weeks, totalling £200,000.
Unfortunately we now know that, at some point, scammers had intercepted the emails 
between Bs director and the accountant and had sent B incorrect payments details for the 
investment. So the payments had gone to the scammers, and not to any investment.
After the scam was uncovered, B reported it to Barclays and asked it to refund the money it 
had lost. Barclays investigated and accepted that the payments were out of character for B 
so it should have carried out further checks before allowing them to go through. But it also 
held B partly liable as it didnt think B had done enough to check who it was paying before 
making the payments. So Barclays offered to refund 50% of the money B lost. B wasnt 
satisfied with Barclays response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought B should have had some 
concerns about what was going on, so didnt think they had a reasonable basis for belief that 
the payments were genuine. So they agreed Barclays offer to refund 50% of the money B 
had lost was fair. They also recommended Barclays pay B £100 compensation for the delays 
in responding to its claim, which Barclays agreed to. But B disagreed with our investigator, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one B fell victim to, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Was B vulnerable, under the CRM code?
The CRM code says that, where a customer is vulnerable, the bank should refund them in 
full  regardless of whether any of the exceptions to reimbursement apply. And it defines a 
customer as vulnerable if it would not be reasonable to expect them to have protected 
themselves from the particular scam they fell victim to.
B has argued that its director was suffering with a contagious disease when some of the 
payments were made, and so their judgment was impaired. It has also said the director had 
another physical condition at the time which was causing a lot of pain, and that the director 
was under significant stress as well. Any my intention isnt to diminish the difficulties these 
things can cause, and I dont underestimate the impact they had.
But, based on what Ive seen of its communication with the scammer at the time, it appears 
B was able to carry out at least some independent checks into the investment and ask a 
number of questions about what was going on. So I dont think its circumstances were such 
that it was unable to protect itself from this particular scam.
And so I dont think B meets the definition of vulnerable from the CRM code, and I think the 
exclusions to reimbursement could still apply.
Did B have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Barclays has argued B didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, 
because it didnt do enough to check who it was paying before making them. And while I 
appreciate that B has been the victim of a cruel and sophisticated scam, I do think there 
were a number of things about what was happening and what it was told that should have 
caused it significant concern.
From looking at the emails between B and its accountant and then the scammer, it doesnt 
appear that B was sent many details about the pension scheme it thought it was investing in. 
Despite asking for the terms of the pension scheme, the emails only give generic information 
about pensions and a link to a website before then asking B to make payments to the bank 
details provided. B also doesnt appear to have been sent any documents or paperwork 
relating to the investment or pension scheme, or anything confirming any agreement or 
contract it had entered into. And given the amount of money it was sending, I think its 
reasonable to have expected B to get more detail and confirmation about what it was 
investing in before sending the money.
The emails also show B asked a number of questions about what was going on, and so it 
clearly had some concerns. But I dont think the answers B received should have been 
enough to satisfy the concerns it appears to have had. B said it couldnt find any details 
online about the company it was being asked to pay. But the emails just reply that it is safe 
and not to worry, which I dont think should have been a very reassuring response. B asks how it is able to join a pension scheme for civil servants when it is not part of the civil 
service. But the emails reply that the scheme also manages investment pensions without 
provided any detail or evidence of this, so I dont think this should have been a reassuring 
response either.
B asks for an update after the first few payments have been made and is told it will receive a 
statement once all the payments have been made. But at this point it doesnt appear to have 
any confirmation from the pension scheme of what it is paying the money into or that any of 
it has been received. And this isnt how I would expect an investment of this size to work, so 
I think this should have caused B significant concern.
B is also asked to change the bank details it is sending the payments to at one point, but it 
isnt given a clear explanation of why the details need to change. It also then queries the 
details as it says they are not recognised by its bank, even after trying different versions of 
the account name, but is told to just continue anyway even though they are not recognised. 
And I think this should have caused it significant concern about where it was sending the 
money.
I sympathise with the position B has found itself in. And I appreciate that it thought it was 
speaking to its accountant and trusted they knew what they were doing. But I think there 
were a number of things here which should have caused it significant concern. And I dont 
think it did enough, or that the seemingly genuine information it was given should have been 
enough, to satisfy those concerns. So I think Barclays has established that B made the 
payments without a reasonable basis for belief that they were genuine.
Barclays has therefore established that one of the exceptions to reimbursement under the 
CRM code applies here, and it does not have to refund B all the money it lost.
Did Barclays meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think B had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, it 
may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money it lost if Barclays didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings when it 
identifies a scam risk.
Barclays has accepted that it should have identified a risk here and didnt do enough before 
allowing the payments to go through. So it has accepted that it didnt meet its obligations 
under the CRM code.
Where one of the exceptions to reimbursement applies, but a firm also didnt meet its 
obligations, the CRM code sets out that the customer is then entitled to a refund of 50% of 
the money they lost.
As Barclays has already offered to refund 50% of the money B lost, I think this is a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I also think these payments were unusual and out of character enough that, in addition to its 
responsibilities under the CRM code, Barclays should have identified B was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of them, and so intervened to carry out additional checks before 
allowing them to go through. And that, if it had done so, the scam would likely have been 
uncovered and the loss prevented at that point. So I think Barclays should pay interest on 
this refund from the date of the payments, until the date of settlement.
Did Barclays do enough to recover the money B lost?We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
Barclayss evidence shows it contacted the bank the payments were sent to within a 
reasonable amount of time, to ask for the money to be returned. So while unfortunately the 
bank the money was sent to wasnt able to return any of the money, Barclays has done all I 
would expect it to have done.
Customer Service
B initially reported the scam to Barclays in November 2022, but didnt receive Barclays full 
response to its claim until February 2023  which I think is a significant delay and will have 
caused B inconvenience.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think an award of £100 would be fair and reasonable 
compensation for the inconvenience B was caused as a result of this delay. And so I think it 
would be fair for Barclays to pay this amount of compensation to B.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to:
Refund B 50% of the money it lost as a result of this scam, if it has not already done 
so
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date of the payments until the date of 
settlement
Pay B £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman