DRN-2706037
complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to 
a scam.
background
In May 2019, Mr S made a credit card payment of £950 to an individual purporting to be from 
a holiday company. The payment wasnt made directly but was handled by an international 
payment service which was responsible for transferring the payment to the eventual 
recipient.
Mr S was looking for flights online and made an enquiry through a website. Mr S received a 
call back and provided his card details in order to make the payment. He received an 
itinerary and e-ticket but became suspicious from their appearance, so contacted the airline 
directly. The airline advised him that there was no booking in his name.
Once Mr S realised hed been the victim of a scam, he contacted Lloyds. This happened on 
26 May 2019.
Mr S says at this point, the transaction to the scammers was still pending. He says Lloyds 
told him there was nothing it could do until the payment completed. When Mr S called back 
several days later, Lloyds told him it was unable to return his funds.
Mr S complained to Lloyds. He said he was unhappy that Lloyds wouldnt refund the money 
lost to a scam. 
Lloyds said that it sent Mr S a text message prior to processing the payment, to check he 
wanted to proceed, which he confirmed he did. It also said that, as the payment was made 
via a money transfer company, it was unable to refund Mr S by alternative avenues (such as 
a chargeback, or a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974). Unhappy with 
the response from Lloyds, Mr S contacted this service.
An investigator looked into things but didnt think Lloyds could have done anything to prevent 
the scam  he didnt consider the payment Mr S made was so unusual that it shouldve 
raised Lloyds suspicions. And he didnt think that there were any other options available to 
Lloyds to recover the funds.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was an authorised payment even though Mr S was the victim of a sophisticated scam. 
He requested for the payment to be made so, although he did not intend the money to go to 
the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions 
of his account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr S when he carried out this payment to a fraudster, or whether it should have done more 
than it did.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr S, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Lloyds actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the payment to be made 
from Mr Ss credit card, so I cant fairly say Lloyds should reimburse Mr S the money he lost 
to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
Mr S has accepted that he authorised the payment of £950 himself. Because of this, Lloyds 
had an obligation to follow his instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the payment  as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds shouldve been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having said that, Ive also considered that this payment was made on Mr Ss credit card.
Its not uncommon for credit cards to be used for larger value purchases and Mr S was still 
within his agreed spending limit following the scam. Taking everything into account, I dont 
think that the transaction was so unusual that I can say Lloyds acted unreasonably by not 
making enquiries about the payment before processing it.
I understand Mr S thinks Lloyds could have done more to stop the payment going through 
while it was still pending  and hes said he called Lloyds a number of times while the 
payment was pending. Lloyds has also confirmed Mr S first contacted it about this fraudulent 
payment on 26 May 2019. Ive not been able to listen to the call Mr S had with Lloyds  but 
Ive thought about what Lloyds couldve done at this time, having been made aware that    
Mr S had been the victim of a scam. While I appreciate this would have felt frustrating for   
Mr S to see the money still pending, having considered everything, I dont think Lloyds could reasonably have done anything more, even at this point. A card payment is a guaranteed 
form of transaction so, once made, there isnt anything a bank can do to intervene and stop 
the payment, even at the pending stage. 
Ive considered whether there were any other avenues available to Lloyds to recover Mr Ss 
funds, such as a Section 75 claim, or a chargeback. In this case, as the payment went via an 
international payment service provider, I think this breaks the direct link between Mr S, 
Lloyds and the scammer required for Section 75 to be applicable. Similarly, a chargeback 
can only be raised against the merchant that funds are directly paid to. In this case, as       
Mr Ss funds went to an international payment service first before the scammer, and they 
completed their obligations in receiving and remitting the funds, I cant fairly say that Lloyds 
should have raised a chargeback, as I dont think it would have had any prospects of 
success.
I do feel considerable sympathy for what Mr S has been through here. But unfortunately, Im 
not persuaded that this was a consequence of any specific failing on the part of Lloyds  so 
whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint him, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Lloyds to 
refund the loss.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman