DRN-2637013
The complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to cover some of the costs hes 
entitled to as part of a claim he made on his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. In short, Mr P needed medical assistance while travelling abroad and then required 
repatriation back to the UK. As his insurer, UKI accepted the claim for the consequential 
costs and paid for his return by means of a flight home. 
UKI arranged a separate flight to that of the one that Mr P had already paid for and planned 
to use to return home. Mr P argues that UKI ought to have just used his original ticket, 
instead of paying for an alternative  but he accepts that the policy does not cover the cost 
he paid for this flight.  
Whats left in dispute is Mr P would like UKI to cover the cost he will incur for rebooking this 
unused flight to the UK, on the basis that the airline has agreed to postpone the date in 
which he can fly  but he will incur a cost/fee in order to rearrange the flight.  
Where these facts are not in dispute, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 Its common ground that the costs Mr P is claiming for (although not yet proven) will 
be incurred in order to rebook what was originally planned to be his flight back to the 
UK. In other words, theyll come as a result of his unused return travel tickets. 
 With this in mind, theres a relevant exclusion in the policy. This states that, amongst 
other things, UKI will not pay for claims which are a result of: Your unused return 
travel tickets as a result of cutting short your journey if we have paid to get you 
home. 
 Evidently, Mr Ps journey was sadly cut short, with UKI paying for him to get home. 
And as Ive already explained, the costs he seeks to claim for are/will be a 
consequence of his unused flight. Put simply, if he doesnt rebook, he will not incur 
the expense. 
 Therefore, in the circumstances of this claim, I find that UKI can reasonably rely on 
this exclusion to decline to cover the remaining costs Mr P is claiming for.  
 Its a general principle of insurance that the cover in place should put the policyholder 
back in the same position they were in before the loss occurred. Mr P still has the 
benefit of using this flight which he has paid for  ultimately, hes not lost out in this 
sense. So, in any event, Im not persuaded that Mr P has been left in an unfair 
position.
 In keeping with the policy terms, UKI agreed to repatriate Mr P back to the UK. Its 
not in question that it did this appropriately; he was returned home safely, in 
accordance with the medical advice given. Although this was not using the flight 
ticket that Mr P wouldve preferred, UKI nevertheless fulfilled its obligations.
 The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. In conclusion, Im satisfied that UKI did handle this claim 
fairly, on the grounds of safely repatriating Mr P home and duly covering the costs 
that it should have. 
 On account of this, I do not require UKI to do anything differently for this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman