DRN-4184302
The complaint
Mrs R has complained to Stephen McDine IFA Limited (Stephen McDine) about the assets 
she thought were held in trust set up for the benefit of her daughter. Mrs R doesnt 
understand why her previous solicitor is a trustee and the first life assured of the investments 
held within the trust. Mrs R isnt happy about the adviser fees that have been taken directly 
out of the bond.
What happened
The trust was set up in 2010 and Mrs R invested £30,000 into a bond held within the trust via 
policy number ending 931 with a product provider I shall refer to as Company A in my 
decision. 
Mrs R invested a further £30,000 into the trust in 2016 via further policy number ending 527 
with Company A. Mrs R thought this had been added to the original policy and not a new 
one.
Mrs R couldnt understand why her previous solicitor was trustee for the trust. Mrs R had her 
nephew replaced as trustee at a cost of £1,500.
In 2017 and 2018 Mrs R invested further funds which she thought were again written in trust, 
but the bonds were in her sole name. The funds were invested with a different product 
provider I shall refer to as Company B in my decision. 
Mrs R also wasnt happy with the charges she had incurred so she complained to         
Stephen McDine who issued its response on 27 January 2023. It said;
The terms of the policy Mrs R set up in 2010 With Company A meant the bond 
invested into couldnt be added to and the only option was to invest in a new bond 
with Company A  that was still held within the family trust and which benefited from 
a lower charging structure. 
It provided details of the advice given in January 2017 and February 2018 to invest 
£20,000 and £10,000 respectively into a bond with Company B.
The adviser didnt choose Mrs Rs solicitor as trustee. 
Mrs R and her daughter signed an agreement in November 2016 to opt for an annual 
fee of 0.05% to be deducted from the bond. Mrs R could cancel this agreement at 
any time. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
Stephen McDine wasnt involved with the setting up of the trust so couldnt comment 
on Mrs Rs solicitor being the trustee. 
Both Mrs R and her daughter signed their agreement to the annual 0.05% fee to be 
taken out of the bond in November 2016.  
A second bond with Company A and held within the trust was necessary as the terms 
of the first bond invest into in 2010 meant it couldnt be added to. 
The bond with Company B was set up in 2017 as Mrs R didnt want that bond to be in 
trust for the time being and was in her name only. 
The suitability letter at the time confirmed that two bonds were already held with 
Company A and written in trust. This new bond was to be with Company B.
She couldnt see that Stephen McDine had acted unfairly. 
Stephen McDine confirmed that the fee taken was actually 0.5% but he hoped the complaint 
had now been resolved for Mrs R. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She said the for the investments with Company B she had asked for 
them to be in trust and had been assured that it was. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Rs solicitor appointed as trustee
Mrs R doesnt understand why her previous solicitor was appointed trustee of the trust rather 
than his business. 
I agree with the investigator that this isnt something that can be considered under a 
complaint made about Stephen McDine. The trust was set up by Mrs Rs solicitor and 
without any involvement with Stephen McDine. 
This complaint it is only about the actions of Stephen McDine. So, Im satisfied it doesnt 
have anything to answer for about this part of the complaint.
The fees
In its final response to Mrs Rs complaint, Stephen McDine said that Mrs R and her daughter 
opted for the annual fee to be deducted from the bond. It has provided me with a copy of the 
2016 application to invest with Company A. I can see that the first life assured is Mrs Rs 
solicitor and the second life is Mrs Rs daughter acting as trustees for the trust already in 
existence. Mrs Rs details are given separately as settlor of the trust. This section is signed 
by both lives assured  Mrs Rs solicitor and her daughter.
Further on in the document there is a Section 6  Instructions for Ongoing Adviser Charges 
and I can see that the ongoing adviser charges are written by hand as 0.5% of the original 
investment and was to be deducted monthly. The overall document is also signed and dated 
by Mrs Rs solicitor and Mrs Rs daughter. 
So, I dont agree with Mrs R that Stephen McDine has done anything wrong by receiving the 
annual fees as these were identified and agreed at the point of application. 
The investment with Company A
Stephen McDine has confirmed that after an initial investment into the bond which was 
written in trust that no further funds can be added. Ive been given a copy of the bonds key 
feature documents and see that under the How flexible is it? section it says, You cant invest any more money into your bond. So, its clear why a second bond was invested into 
with Company A when additional funds were available and to be added to the trust. 
I dont think Stephen McDine did anything wrong when the second bond was invested into 
for the trust. Quite simply further investment couldnt be made into the original bond. 
Advice given in 2017 and 2018
I have been given a copy of Stephen McDines suitability letter dated 12 January 2017.    
Mrs Rs objectives were to invest £20,000 which she didnt need to have access to. She 
wanted an investment with potentially better returns than savings and decided that planning 
your estate for your daughter would be assisted if you invested money into an investment 
bond.
An investment bond with Company B is proposed and the letter continues;
You have 2 bonds written in trust already with [Company A] for estate planning 
purposes, and you may instruct me to write this new bond under trust for [Mrs Rs 
daughter]. However at present you want to retain control of the funds and a bond 
allows you that control.
Under the Trust Arrangements section of that letter it says in emboldened writing You do 
not want to write under the trust at this time. Mrs R was recorded as the Owner/lives 
assured of the bond. 
In 2018 Mrs R had built up surplus funds of £10,000 and wanted to invest more money into 
one of her existing bonds. Growth was more important than income. Mrs R was advised to 
invest the further funds with Company B and Mrs R was again recorded as being the 
Owner/lives assured. 
Ive seen copies of the key investor information documents that were provided, application 
forms and cheques Mrs R made payable to Company B and can see that Company B wrote 
to Mrs R confirming the investment in February 2018. Again, Mrs R is confirmed as the 
owner of the bond and also the life insured.
Mrs R has said that she asked for the additional funds to be added to the trust. But I think 
the above correspondence I have referred to doesnt indicate that was the case. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mrs R did want the funds invested within the trust. It was made clear 
that Mrs R was the owner and the life assured for both bond investments in 2017 and 2018. 
And while Mrs R has said she was directed by the adviser, I dont think its unreasonable to 
have expected her to have read those suitability letters prior to agreeing to the investments 
themselves. I also understand that Mrs Rs daughter was present at meetings and helped 
her mother, so I dont think that Mrs R was in a vulnerable position or without any alternative 
support. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think that Stephen McDine has done anything 
wrong. It follows that I dont uphold the complaint. 
I know Mrs R feels very strongly about her complaint and I thank her for her efforts in 
bringing it. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached the decision 
that I have. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint and wont be asking                  
Stephen McDine IFA Limited to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman