DRN-3648450
The complaint
Mr K complains Nationwide Building Society discriminated against him when he visited a 
branch to provide identification details.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr K visited a branch of Nationwide to provide identification details in 
order to open an account for his child. Mr K says he was told by branch staff that his child 
needed to be present with him for it to physically confirm identity. 
Mr K says he questioned this while in the branch and asked to speak to a manager; but was 
told it was Nationwides policy, in line with its regulatory obligations, and that a manager was 
unavailable. 
Mr K complained to Nationwide. He said he felt hed been discriminated against as he says 
the Nationwide representative only took this approach because of his accent; and in 
correspondence with our service suggested Nationwide wouldnt have taken this approach if 
he was British and wearing different clothes.
Nationwide upheld Mr Ks complaint and paid him £50. It considered Mr K had been given 
incorrect information about the identification process for his child; but it concluded this was a 
mistake rather than the branch staff being discriminatory towards Mr K. Unhappy with 
Nationwides response Mr K brough his complaint to our service for review. 
Our investigator agreed there had been failings in the level of service Nationwide had 
provided Mr K; but considered there was no evidence hed been discriminated against. He 
therefore felt Nationwides offer of £50 was fair in resolution of the complaint.
Mr K didnt agree. He said he felt dissatisfied because our investigators outcome was similar 
to Nationwides response; and he maintained his argument that he had been discriminated 
against. He also said there were questions that Nationwide  and our service  hadnt 
answered. These were:
Why certain terms were used by the Nationwide representative like fraud and tax 
evasion to support the argument that physical identification was needed; 
Why the request to speak with the branch manager was refused; and
Why the branch representative was unaware of the correct identification process.
Mr K asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be helpful for me to explain at this point that its not our services role to say 
whether Nationwide has acted unlawfully by breaching the Equality Act 2010  thats for the 
courts to decide. Our services role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, while taking into account a number of factors, including relevant law. So, my 
decision here is based on whats fair and reasonable.
Mr K has said Nationwide discriminated against him because of his accent; and in 
correspondence with our service has said he feels he would have been treated differently if 
he was British and wearing different clothes. Mr K also said he didnt feel all his questions 
were adequately answered by Nationwide  or our investigator  as Ive detailed above. 
I acknowledge Mr Ks strength of feeling on this matter. Its clear he is in no doubt that the 
Nationwide representatives actions were for no reason other than to be discriminatory. I can 
understand why Mr K felt this way, and dont distrust his testimony of how he experienced 
the situation, or discount how this made him feel and has left him feeling afterwards. 
Theres no longer a dispute that Mr K was provided with the incorrect information when he 
visited the branch; but what is in dispute is why this incorrect information was provided. 
Id like to assure Mr K that Ive carefully considered his testimony and the questions he feels 
remain unanswered, as well as all of the evidence on file when reaching my decision. 
Nationwide upheld Mr Ks complaint. In its final response it acknowledged failings in the level 
of service it provided in branch and has given an explanation as to why certain terms, like 
fraud and tax evasion, were used by the branch staff. Its said this was to provide context 
to Mr K for the physical identity requirements (although it acknowledges its approach was 
incorrect in Mr Ks individual circumstances). Based on the evidence I have I consider this 
explanation reasonable in the circumstances. 
Nationwide has also said that while Mr K did ask to speak to a manager while in the branch, 
he was told that the manager was unavailable at the time. Nationwide have told our service 
this was because the manager was already on a call at the time and so was unavailable to 
speak with Mr K. Unfortunately, its not always going to be possible for customers to speak 
to certain members of staff when requested, and I consider Nationwides explanation as to 
why the branch manager was unavailable reasonable here.
Nationwide has also said the branch representative gave incorrect information as they had 
confused its identification policy and process. Theyve said the confusion appears to come 
from them being new and not understanding the difference in policy when completing 
identification checks for children. I do consider that any newer employee will have had 
limited exposure to certain situations and therefore their knowledge may be limited in 
comparison to a colleague with greater experience. So, taking into account what both Mr K 
and Nationwide have said, I accept Nationwides explanation for the reason the wrong 
information was provided.  
Having carefully taken all of the evidence into account Ive seen nothing which leads me to 
conclude Mr K was treated unfairly or unreasonably in the individual circumstances of his 
complaint. I consider it more likely, on balance, that the Nationwide representative had a lack 
of knowledge and incorrectly interpreted its policy on the identification process for a child; 
leading to the incorrect requirements they explained to Mr K at the time. 
I say this because as detailed above, Nationwide has said the individual was a relatively new 
member of staff, still being trained in the role. While this isnt justification for not knowing the 
correct policy details, it does indicate that the individual would likely have been less 
experienced in this type of situation, rather than a more experienced staff member. 
Nationwide has also said the individual raised the matter with their manager soon 
afterwards, as they were concerned with how the interaction had gone; and that they have received no other complaints about the individual. I consider these points further support 
Nationwides position that this was a mistake by its representative.
So, as Ive found Nationwides representative didnt act in an unfair or unreasonable way, 
Ive gone on to consider if Nationwides offer of £50 for the incorrect information Mr K was 
provided is fair and reasonable in resolution of this complaint; and having done so I consider 
it is. 
I say this because I consider the only error the Nationwide representative made was to get 
the process wrong and give Mr K incorrect information. While this would have caused him 
some distress and inconvenience to resolve; Im satisfied Nationwide did a good job of 
investigating Mr Ks concerns and explaining to him why the error happened. 
Ive seen it took Mr Ks complaint seriously and completed a thorough review of his 
concerns, getting testimony from members of the branch in order to identify what had 
happened, which it has shared with this service. It provided Mr K with its response in a timely 
manner and took on board further points Mr K put to it during the complaint process. While 
its final response may not have been the answer Mr K wanted to hear, it acknowledged the 
error in the information he had been provided, gave him a timely explanation as to why this 
incorrect information had been given, and offered him £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Once Nationwide provided this response and confirmed the correct process, Mr K was 
aware he could return to a branch to complete the identification process without physically 
needing his child present. I note that Mr K works within a relatively close proximity of a 
Nationwide branch, so I consider the impact and inconvenience for Mr K of returning to 
complete the identification process to be mitigated. As such I consider £50 fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience of Mr Ks initial trip to the branch where he was provided 
incorrect information. 
Nationwide has confirmed it has already paid the £50 compensation to Mr K. Therefore, Im 
satisfied theres no further action Nationwide need to take in resolution of this complaint. 
I know this decision will be disappointing to Mr K as he is very clear about how he was 
treated and made to feel during and after the interaction. But I hope he feels listened to and 
that it helps him to know someone independent and impartial has looked into his concerns.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already offered and paid £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. As such Nationwide Building Society doesnt 
need to do anything further in resolution of Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman