DRN-3029219
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs W says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
Mrs W has said that the PPI policy was included as part of the store card package, but I 
think AXA made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. I say this because the PPI was sold to Mrs W over the phone many years after she 
had taken out the store card itself. And from what we know about AXAs sales processes 
and call scripts from around the time of the sale, I think it most likely that Mrs W was 
made aware the policy was optional and she chose to take it. And Mrs W had already 
had use of the store card for many years by this time, so I dont agree that it was 
included as part of the package and I think she knew she had a choice about taking it 
and decided to add it to the store card account after being offered it at a much later date. 
Mrs W didnt give us her recollections of whether she was advised to take the PPI, but 
AXA has told us it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W which I think is most likely. I say 
this because I havent seen any evidence to show AXA gathering information about    
Mrs Ws circumstances in order to make a personalised recommendation, which is what I 
would expect to see for an advised sale. And from what we know about how AXA sold 
these policies from around the time of the sale, I think it unlikely it provided advice. This 
means it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to 
give Mrs W enough clear and timely information so she could decide for herself if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs W.  Although Mrs W 
says had two medical conditions when the PPI was taken out, I dont think better 
information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused her to 
change her mind about taking out the policy. 
I say this because the first condition occurred more than ten years before the policy was 
taken and while Mrs W had time off from work at the time, the condition was 
subsequently controlled with medication and Mrs W didnt tell us of the need for any 
further time off from work. The second condition was diagnosed the year before the 
policy was added to the account. Mrs W didnt need any time off from work at the time 
and was prescribed medication for it. So, I think it is unlikely that she would have thought 
she would have needed to make a claim on the policy because of either condition. 
Mrs W has said she was financially stretched at the time of the sale but hasnt given us 
anything to show that this was the case. And in the absence of such evidence, it is 
difficult for me to conclude that it was unaffordable for her. So, it seems like it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs W would 
have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs W would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman