DRN-2952628
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) declined their claim 
on their building warranty. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J bought a new home that came with a ten-year building warranty provided by 
NHBC. The warranty commenced in 2016. In October 2020 they made a claim after a 
service of their packaged pump station identified a problem with the sewage tank. 
NHBC asked for a copy of the report from the service and subsequently declined the claim. It 
said the report showed that the drainage system was in full working order, and there was no 
physical damage, so it didnt meet the requirements for cover under section three of the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs J didnt think this was fair. They said the report from the service showed the tank 
had imploded so wasnt functioning. So they felt it should be covered. They made a 
complaint. 
NHBC didnt uphold their complaint. It said section three of the policy provides cover to put 
things right where there is physical damage. But the report had shown that the system was 
working correctly, so there was no damage to put right. It maintained the claim should be 
declined. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that because the report confirmed the drainage system was working, the claim 
doesnt meet the criteria for a claim under section three of the policy. So she thought NHBC 
had acted fairly by declining it.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J arent happy with NHBCs decision to decline their claim. I need to decide if it 
has acted fairly and reasonably when reaching its decision.
The claim was made under section three of the policy, this provides cover in years three to 
ten of the warranty. The warranty document states under section three:
This section protects you if there is physical damage to your home because the builder 
failed to build the following parts of your home to meet the NHBC requirements. 
The section of the policy goes on to list the parts of the building this applies to, which 
includes:
Drainage below the ground, which you are responsible for.
So in order for a claim to be successful, there needs to be a defect that means NHBC 
building requirements werent met, and there needs to be physical damage caused due to 
this defect. 
In this case the report provided by Mr and Mrs J identifies that the sewage tank has 
imploded. However the report also confirms that all aspects of the drainage system were in 
full working order, with no faults identified.
One of the criteria of section three is that there needs to be physical damage to one of the 
parts listed as covered in that section. In this case, the relevant part is the underground 
drainage system. The report provided by Mr and Mrs J confirms that the drainage system is 
working without problem. So Im satisfied that at this point, there was no physical damage to 
the drainage system.
So based on this I dont think theres enough to show that the claim would meet the criteria 
under section three. As there isnt physical damage present in the below ground drainage. I 
therefore think NHBC has acted fairly by declining the claim. 
I note Mr and Mrs J have arranged another annual service for this year. But the results of 
this would have no bearing on the outcome of this complaint, as I am only considering 
matters up until NHBCs final response to this complaint. NHBC has said if problems develop 
with the drainage system then it would assess the claim again. So if the service identifies 
new problems then Mr and Mrs J should raise these directly with NHBC in the first instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman