DRN-3426586
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as W has complained that Travelers Insurance Company Limited 
(Travelers) applied an incorrect limit to its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr R, a director of W, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
W held a business protection insurance policy with Travelers. W claimed on the business 
interruption section of the policy after it was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. 
Travelers accepted Ws claim under the extension for prevention of access (including non-
damage) and applied a claim limit of £50,000. W didnt think Travelers interpretation of the 
limit was reasonable and complained as it thought the policy was unclear.
W said that the Schedule sets out that the overall business interruption cover is £3,400,000. 
It said Percentage/SI on the Schedule should be read as percentage of the sum insured 
rather than Travelers interpretation that it meant percentage or sum insured.  In summary, 
W said the reasonable construct of the Schedule is that the indemnity limit under the 
extension is the number of months loss (maximum 12) multiplied by the loss value 
(maximum £50,000 per month). Therefore, W thought the limit applied to its claim should be 
£600,000. 
Travelers said the Schedule was set out in line with industry standards and it was clear that 
a £50,000 limit applied for a period of 12 months.  
Unhappy with Travelers response, W brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he thought 
Travelers had fairly interpreted the indemnity limit for the extension on the schedule. 
W asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Covid-19 and the Governments actions have had an impact on Ws 
business however, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
W has provided a detailed explanation of its interpretation of the indemnity limit. While Ive 
carefully considered the points made, Im not going to address each point individually in this 
decision and will instead focus on what I see as the central issue. 
The relevant part of Ws Business Interruption Insurance Section Schedule says:
Section Extensions                        Applicable       Maximum Indemnity     Percentage/SI                                                                          
Period (Months)       
21. Theatre Prevention of Access     Y                          12                               £50,000 
(including non-damage)
The Schedule also says:
The following extensions are operative only where stated as 'applicable' in the 
Schedule and are subject otherwise to the terms of the Business Interruption 
Section and the General Definitions Conditions and Exclusions
Provided that the limit of the Company's liability under
(i) each extension except extension 10 in respect of any one Event
(ii) extension 10 in any one Period of Insurance 
shall not exceed
(a) the percentage of the total of the Sums Insured by each applicable insured 
item (or 133.33% of the Estimated Sums Insured if the basis of settlement is 
Declaration Linked)
or
(b) the amount as specified in the Schedule
Ive considered Ws comments, but Im not persuaded that the wording in the schedule is 
unclear. Ive thought about what an ordinary policyholder entering into the contract with all 
the facts would understand and I think that a natural reading of the Schedule indicates that 
there is a £50,000 sum insured limit and a 12 month maximum indemnity period. Thats 
because, rather than interpreting Percentage/SI as being a percentage of the sum insured, I 
think Travelers interpretation that it means percentage or sum insured is more natural. I 
also think its clear that the £50,000 limit applies to the claim as a whole and not each month 
of loss within that claim. 
Ive also looked at other parts of Ws policy and can see that / is used to signify or in other 
areas, for example and/or and debit/credit/charge card. So, I think the interpretation of / 
to mean or in the Schedule is consistent with other parts of the policy. 
I recognise this isnt the answer W was hoping for, given the considerable losses its incurred 
but, having considered the matter very carefully, Im satisfied Travelers have acted fairly and 
reasonably in applying a limit of £50,000 to Ws claim. Im, therefore, not going to require 
them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman