DRN-3849457
The complaint
Mrs A complains that ManyPets Ltd (ManyPets) hasnt paid her for multiple pet insurance 
claims, or for taxis arranged for the transportation of her pets. She also complains about its 
general communication with her, delays and the overall handling of matters relating to her 
pet insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons 
given below.
Before I go into this, however, I wanted to acknowledge that Mrs A has been through some 
incredibly challenging circumstances. I recognise how much this complaint means to her, 
and I know shes going to be very disappointed by this outcome. I want to be very clear here 
that Ive spent considerable time looking into this complaint, so while I havent included every 
detail, this isnt reflective of the efforts involved in reaching a fair outcome.
I also want to make it known that this is a particularly lengthy file  with a wealth of 
information provided by both sides. Its also linked to another complaint, which I wont be 
discussing as this has already been decided. While Ive tried to be factually accurate 
throughout this decision, its been difficult to determine the facts and the precise timeline 
given how much time this complaint spans, how many claims are involved and how much 
communication theres been between Mrs A, ManyPets and several third parties.
Pet insurance claims
In recent communication, Mrs A has suggested that she doesnt wish to pursue the claims 
aspect of the complaint anymore. But Ill touch on this for completeness. 
Mrs A doesnt think shes received full payment for all of her pet insurance claims. Shes 
provided bank statements in an attempt to evidence this. 
ManyPets has provided me with a spreadsheet of claims paid for a period spanning August 
2020 to June 2022. This suggests that ManyPets has made payments totalling more than 
£11,000.  And from this it appears that the majority of these payments wouldnt show on 
Mrs As bank statements because most were paid directly to four vets, a physiotherapist, a 
behavioural trainer and a day care/dog walking company. The only payments that were 
made to Mrs A seem to relate to pet taxis, which Ill come onto later, and medication. 
I do note that ManyPets has explained  and this is supported by policy documentation - that 
it doesnt cover routine or preventative treatment (such as teeth cleaning, spaying and post-
operative checks). And three claims are noted as having been declined on the basis of being 
elective or preventative treatments, or for non-prescription food. I can see that there was 
some confusion around whether a food recommendation was suggested or prescribed  but 
evidence says it was suggested and therefore wouldnt have been covered by the policy. 
Given the terms of the policy, and insurance as a whole being designed to cover 
unforeseeable events, I dont think it unreasonable that ManyPets declined to cover these. 
It also appears that there was an issue around medication being collected. As Mrs A didnt 
have the means of collecting it, it was posted on at least one occasion. ManyPets doesnt 
cover the cost of postage, but it appears to have covered it once. I cant see, from the policy 
terms, that it was required to do this so I dont think it would have been unreasonable for it to 
decline to pay out for this if the situation had arisen more than once. 
So the points above explain further costs Mrs A is likely to have incurred outside of her 
policy.
I would also draw attention to a specific matter in which one or more of Mrs As pets were 
accidentally poisoned. The policy terms suggest ManyPets may have been entitled to 
decline the claim surrounding this. But it appears ManyPets accepted the claim and paid out 
for it. I think this demonstrates that ManyPets has acted with leniency when dealing with 
Mrs As claims. 
In summary of the pet insurance claims, Mrs A has been asked to clearly explain which 
claims havent been paid. But she hasnt been able to do this. I havent seen sufficient 
evidence that there are outstanding claims or outstanding payments. And I cant fairly ask 
ManyPets to do any more as a result.
Pet taxis
Mrs A and ManyPets had an agreement in place, to reflect Mrs As circumstances, whereby 
Mrs A would be reimbursed for the cost of taxis for non-emergency house calls or 
transportation costs to the vets. Originally ManyPets had agreed to pay for medically 
necessary (non-routine) home visits due to Mrs As circumstances. But when it became 
aware that the vet no longer provided a home-visit service, it agreed to continue assisting 
her by covering the cost of pet transportation, as long as this was less than the cost of a 
house call. Any costs above this would need to be covered by Mrs A. 
What I have to bear in mind here is that none of ManyPets policies are designed to cover 
pet transportation costs. The policy terms and conditions state that if the illness is life-
threatening, or if moving the pet would endanger it, it will pay for house calls by the vet but 
we will not pay house calls by the vet if your pet can be treated at the surgery  and this 
can reasonably be interpreted that its the condition of the pet that dictates whether 
ManyPets will pay for house calls, rather than the condition of its owner. But ManyPets made 
a unique arrangement with Mrs A in recognition of her circumstances. So, in putting this in 
place, ManyPets has gone over and above its requirements as an insurer. And I note that 
Mrs A didnt have to pay any more for her policies to receive this additional benefit.
However, despite this not being part of the policy, ManyPets had said it would cover the pet 
taxis. So I think its fair that ManyPets paid this as agreed, up until it told her it was going to 
withdraw this. ManyPets hasnt disputed this  its made it clear that its happy to pay in line 
with the agreement, for the period this was in place for. 
I appreciate that Mrs A became reliant on the pet taxis for her pets veterinary needs, and 
that the withdrawal of this agreement placed her in a difficult position. But it would be unreasonable to expect ManyPets to continue paying for something it had offered as a 
gesture of goodwill. So what Im looking at here is whether ManyPets paid out in line with the 
agreement it made with Mrs A.
Mrs A believes that ManyPets has underpaid her for pet taxis  as, for some time, it was 
operating on the basis of payments of up to £12 each way, rather than paying out for the full 
cost of up to £185 (the cost of a house call). ManyPets admitted to this error and has told 
this Service that it rectified this and paid £40 to apologise, (and also for mistakenly using the 
wrong pets name on a text message and for the handling of a telephone call). So Ive had to 
decide whether Im persuaded the error was indeed rectified. 
Ive seen an invoice from the physiotherapist for pet taxis. This invoice equates to £780 for 
taking three dogs to the vets on four occasions, at £60 per hour plus £15 in mileage. And 
this seems to have been paid. I note that the physiotherapist has charged the physiotherapy 
rate, despite being needed for transportation  which would generally be cheaper. Shes 
explained her reasons for this, effectively acknowledging that shes charged more than she 
would for transportation generally  and that isnt for me to question. While this doesnt 
confirm the earlier payments that were incorrectly capped have been rectified, it does tell me 
that ManyPets made payments far exceeding the £12 cap. And that it incurred the additional 
cost (of physiotherapy rates) without question. I note there was a delay in payment, but it 
was ultimately paid. 
While Ive been provided with some evidence of invoices and payments made, its difficult to 
determine precisely how much the pet taxis have cost, and whats been paid out, in total, for 
the full duration of the agreement. Given that this arrangement was put in place as a gesture 
of goodwill, and therefore it wasnt a contractual requirement for ManyPets to pay, I cant see 
why it would underpay Mrs A intentionally. Its possible that ManyPets has unintentionally 
underpaid Mrs A. But theres been ample opportunity for Mrs A to provide further information 
to support the complaint around underpayment of taxis, and I simply dont have enough 
evidence to fairly say that ManyPets has failed to pay out as it said it would. 
I note that ManyPets has acknowledged occasions where it declined to pay for pet taxis. 
This has been in instances where its been unable to identify any consultation or treatments 
in the veterinary history for a given date. I dont think this is unreasonable as a claim does 
need to be proved. And I can see it notified Mrs A of this in its letters to her. And it made 
deductions for situations in which Mrs As uninsured pet was also transported to the vet. It 
feels fair, even where insured pets are being transported, to share the cost if Mrs A is 
benefiting from the taxi for her uninsured pet. So, based on what Ive seen, I think it more 
likely than not that ManyPets has rectified the underpayments of the pet taxis and I havent 
seen enough to say that its declined to pay, or made deduction, unfairly.
While I appreciate this was a gesture of goodwill that ManyPets arranged, and its through 
difficult circumstances that it was needed, it would be unreasonable to deny that it was a 
very generous arrangement from ManyPets that arguably goes beyond the scope of a 
reasonable adjustment. And without sufficient evidence to support a remaining amount owed 
 beyond that of Mrs As own bank statements  I dont think I could fairly ask it to do more. 
Customer service
Mrs A has referenced various occasions in which she felt let down by the service received 
from ManyPets. There are a number of customer service failure allegations by Mrs A, so I 
wont provide an exhaustive list but some of the key ones are as follows:Mrs A was given a dedicated team but feels they werent able to meet her needs, as 
they failed to respond to phone calls, there was a rota system which meant she 
wasnt able to speak to the individual she wanted when she called, and there were 
general issues with their overall performance and competence;
ManyPets failed to share a call it had with one of the vets;
ManyPets changed the insurance prices without appropriately notifying Mrs A;
ManyPets communicated inappropriately with Mrs A while she was in hospital.
It appears to me that ManyPets tried to make reasonable adjustments for Mrs A in setting up 
a dedicated team. But the general role of the dedicated team and the service provided by it 
has been considered in an earlier decision, so I wont address this further. 
Having said that, there was a specific instance in which Mrs A didnt receive a call back as 
expected, and a call was ended inappropriately. For this reason, our investigator 
recommended ManyPets pay £100. ManyPets agreed to this, and I think this is a fair 
reflection of the trouble and upset caused by this.
I do think its important to look at the whole matter of customer service holistically. It 
appears, to some degree, that ManyPets has tried to offer too much, with good intention, 
and has therefore made it difficult to live up to the expectations it has set. From the file, it 
would seem that its tried to communicate directly with various vets and dog services (such 
as dog boarding). I dont generally consider it the role of a pet insurer to manage 
relationships with vets or having any input in a pets treatment and welfare beyond assessing 
and paying insurance claims in line with the policy. So, in taking this on, ManyPets has 
created an opportunity to get things wrong. But, given the circumstances, and whats already 
been decided in the other complaint, I maintain the compensation of £100 is fair. 
Just to address the remaining points listed above:
I dont think it unreasonable that ManyPets hasnt provided a copy of a call recording 
that Mrs A wasnt party to  it didnt have permission from the third party to do so. 
I consider that Mrs A was made appropriately aware of the increase in the cost of her 
pets insurance before agreeing to it. And I also think ManyPets made it clear when 
excesses would be charged and how much these would be. 
In terms of the communication during the hospital visit, I havent seen anything that 
leads me to think the contact was inappropriate. And it appears to have been in 
relation to making medication available to Mrs As pets. I feel that this comes back to 
ManyPets acting beyond the role of an insurer and trying to manage relationships for 
Mrs A. I cant see that ManyPets caused any detriment here  and it appears to 
have acted within the boundaries of the relationship it had come to have with Mrs A. 
Summary
Its clear from whats been provided that ManyPets has tried to go above and beyond that 
which a pet insurer would usually do or would reasonably be expected to do  even when 
factoring in appropriate adjustments. And I think its main error here has been failing to 
manage Mrs As expectations earlier around this.
Ive thought carefully about the impact of any failings on ManyPets part. And, while I do 
empathise with Mrs A and the difficult circumstances in her past and present  including the loss of some of her beloved pets  I think it would be unfair to ask ManyPets to do anything 
further. 
Mrs A is hopeful that shell be awarded the outstanding sums due to her. But I havent seen 
sufficient evidence that ManyPets has failed to pay out for claims or pet taxis. And she feels 
that shes owed financial compensation for whats gone wrong here. However, I havent seen 
enough evidence of wrongdoing beyond what Ive already addressed. And Mrs A has 
financially benefitted  quite substantially  from the arrangement with ManyPets. Had 
ManyPets not created the pet taxi arrangement, Mrs A would likely have found it much more 
challenging to cater to her pets needs.
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mrs A. And Im sorry that my decision is likely 
to upset her  that really isnt my intention. But I dont think it would be fair to ask ManyPets 
to pay anything beyond the additional £100 that was previously recommended. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, ManyPets Ltd should pay Mrs A £100 within 28 days of 
receiving notice of her acceptance of my decision. 
Mrs A should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on both parties 
and she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between her and ManyPets as to whether the offer still remains 
open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after rejection of 
it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman