DRN-2194561
The complaint
Mrs H complains that FS247 Ltd (trading as Fingerprint Financial Planning) failed to act on 
her instruction to cancel her agreement and continued taking servicing fees for an additional 
period of two months.
What happened
Mrs H and her husband both used FS247 to advise on, and administer, their pension 
savings. Mr H has raised a separate complaint relating to his agreement with FS247 that 
I will also be considering. So this decision will only deal with Mrs Hs agreement with the 
firm. But naturally since the matter she is complaining about is identical to that of her 
husbands complaint, the decisions on the two complaints will be along similar lines. 
Mrs H had a relationship with FS247 for a number of years before she decided to change 
her servicing arrangements. Throughout that time Mrs H had been looked after by a specific 
advisor, although it is clear that advisor was supported more generally by other colleagues 
working at FS247. Mrs Hs named advisor left the employment of FS247 in the autumn of 
2019. At that time FS247 appointed a new advisor to work with Mrs H, and they had a 
telephone discussion with her and her husband, before agreeing to set up a face to face 
meeting in January 2020.
Around three weeks later, in October 2019, Mr H sent an email to FS247 on behalf of him 
and his wife. The content of that email forms much of the substance of this complaint so I will 
deal with it in more detail as part of my findings below. But Mrs H says that email was 
intended, and was sufficient, to give the necessary seven days notice of the termination of 
her agreement with FS247 in line with the agreement shed signed. So she considers FS247 
should have stopped collecting its servicing fees from her pension investments at that time.
Mr H sent a further email to FS247 on behalf of him and his wife in January 2020. In that 
email he made it clear that he considered his earlier email to have terminated their 
relationship and requested a refund of the fees that had been charged for the past two 
months. Around that time FS247 received notification from the product providers that a new 
advisor had been appointed by Mrs H and it ceased collecting any further fees.
One of our investigators has assessed Mrs Hs complaint. She didnt think that Mr Hs email 
to FS247 had been sufficiently clear to make the firm aware that she wanted to end her 
agreement with immediate effect. Instead she thought that it was reasonable for FS247 to 
await further instructions from Mrs Hs new advisor for the transfer of the servicing 
arrangements. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs H and by FS247. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
FS247 has provided us with a great amount of detail about the background to the advisor 
who looked after Mrs H leaving the company. I dont think much of that is relevant here. But 
what is important is that shortly after that advisor left the company Mrs H made the decision 
to transfer the servicing of her pension investments to the advisors new company. I am sure 
that decision was disappointing for FS247. But Mrs H was entirely at liberty to make that 
decision and give the requisite notice to FS247.
I have considered carefully what Mr H said in the email he sent to FS247 in October 2019 on 
behalf of him and his wife. For clarity I reproduce the full text below (save for some changes 
to protect the personal details of Mr and Mrs H, and the advisor.) The email read;
Thank you for your time a couple of weeks ago and for the update on the companys 
strategy  there is certainly a lot going on!
[Mrs H] and I have decided that we shall retain [advisor]s services going forward. He 
has delivered an excellent service thus far and as our requirements are relatively 
straight forward now, there is little reason for us to change.
Im sure that [advisor] will be in touch with you to arrange whatever needs to be 
done, but do let us know if you need anything from us in the interim.
Very best of luck going forward to you and the team.
I think by the content of the email Mr H made it clear that their intentions were not to take on 
the management of their pension investments themselves. His expectation was that they 
would be transferred to the new firm of the advisor so they could continue the relationship 
with the advisor that they had enjoyed for a number of years before. I have considered that 
at the time the providers who held Mrs Hs investments required her to use a financial 
advisor for some, or all, or the services they offered. Whilst I accept that Mrs H would 
potentially have been able to move those investments to a self-administered service, that 
wouldnt have been a seamless process.So I dont think it was unreasonable for FS247 to await further contact from Mrs Hs chosen 
advisor regarding the movement of her servicing arrangement. I dont think that the email 
suggested that Mrs H expected her arrangement to be terminated immediately  so I think it 
was reasonable for FS247 to continue its servicing activities on her pension investments 
whilst the transfer was being arranged by her new advisor.
I have considered that FS247 says that it didnt undertake any activity on the investments 
after the email had been sent. But I dont think that means FS247 failed to provide a normal 
level of service. In the background it would be monitoring market activities to enable it to 
react appropriately across all its clients portfolios. A lack of activity on Mrs Hs investments 
doesnt necessarily imply a lack of attention.
I understand that Mrs Hs advisor informed the product providers that he was taking over the 
servicing of the investments in early January 2020. At that point, when the providers notified 
FS247 of that transfer, the firm says it stopped collecting the fees it had been due. And I 
think that is a reasonable reflection of what should have happened.
On balance I dont think the email Mr H sent to FS247 in October 2019 was sufficiently clear 
to make the firm aware that the servicing relationship should be terminated immediately. 
Instead I think it was reasonable for FS247 to await a request from Mrs Hs new advisor to 
transfer that arrangement, and to collect the servicing fees it was due in the interim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
FS247 Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman