DRN-3351476
The complaint
Mr A complains about the charges hes been invoiced by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS) following the voluntary termination of his hire purchase agreement. 
He wants VWFS to agree he doesnt owe anything.
What happened
Mr A signed a four-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS in February 2017 to obtain a 
second-hand car. In or around June 2020 Mr A decided he didnt want the car anymore and 
called VWFS to discuss his options. He was disappointed that VWFS couldnt tell him how 
much he would need to pay following termination. He worked out his own value for the car, 
based on online valuations, estimates of required repairs, and current mileage. He thought 
VWFS would owe him around £1,600. He sent his valuation to VWFS and said he wanted to 
terminate the agreement on this basis.
VWFS terminated the agreement and arranged an inspection when the car was collected. It 
said Mr A owed £1,464.30, including VAT, for damage to the car. Mr A said he wouldnt have 
agreed to terminate the agreement if it wasnt based on the valuation hed set out.
Our investigator thought VWFS had followed the correct voluntary termination process and 
that it had made Mr A aware of that process. She didnt think VWFS had accepted Mr As 
valuation and that the agreement didnt allow for unused mileage to be refunded. But she 
thought some of the damage costs should be removed to reflect the age of the car and the 
likelihood that some damage, and missing items, would have occurred before Mr A obtained 
the car. She also thought VWFS should pay Mr A £75 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused in not responding to his emails about his own valuation of the car.
VWFS agreed with our investigators recommendations.
Mr A didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
He wasnt looking to profit from the agreement and would be happy to agree that nothing 
is owed to either party.
By responding to his emails about terminating the agreement, VWFS didnt question or 
reject his valuation. He doesnt understand how it is not deemed that VWFS didnt accept 
his valuation.
His valuation fairly used figures for repair from the manufacturer; he could have arranged 
the repairs at a local garage at a cheaper price.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion of the investigator for the following reasons:
The voluntary termination process is governed by the terms in the hire purchase agreement. 
Im satisfied that VWFS followed the agreed process.
When Mr A completed VWFSs request to terminate form, he confirmed he understood the 
process and that the termination couldnt be reversed. He wrote that he agreed this, subject 
to a fair and reasonable valuation. My assessment is attached. I dont find that, by agreeing 
to terminate the agreement, VWFS had accepted Mr As valuation. Rather, it agreed to 
terminate the agreement, subject to the fair and reasonable valuation Mr A had requested. It 
was fair to both parties, and in line with the agreed process, that the valuation should be 
carried out by an independent party.
Mr A thought he should be paid for unused mileage. In other words, hed driven the car 
less that the amount agreed at the outset of the agreement. But this does not form part of 
the agreement, or the voluntary termination process, and I dont agree that VWFS needs to 
compensate Mr A for not driving the full agreed mileage.
Mr A says he couldnt decide whether to terminate the agreement unless he knew how 
much, if anything, would be payable. I fully understand this. But he had an indication of the 
likely costs because hed carried out his own assessment of the repairs that would be 
needed.
From his own assessment, Mr A had accepted that repairs of £1,052 would be payable. 
VWFS originally invoiced Mr A for £1464.30. It agreed to remove some charges following his 
complaint, and its agreed to remove the charges recommended by our investigator. This 
leaves charges of £732.41. This is less than Mr As estimate  and the amount he accepted 
he needed to pay. And I find the amount that remains is fairly owed, based on the evidence 
provided in the independent inspection report.
Whilst Im satisfied that the voluntary termination process was explained to Mr A, he clearly 
misunderstood and thought his own assessment should be used; and that it had been 
accepted by VWFS. Whilst VWFS gave no indication that it agreed with Mr As figures, I 
agree with the investigator that it would have been helpful had VWFS contacted Mr A and 
explained why it couldnt accept his assessment. But I dont think this would have made a 
difference to the overall outcome, because Mr A had given instructions to terminate the 
agreement; and this instruction couldnt be reversed. In the circumstances, I think £75 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
Mr A has told us he cant afford to pay the amount VWFS says he owes. I would remind 
VWFS of its obligations to treat Mr A positively and sympathetically if he is experiencing 
financial difficulties. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should:
1. Remove the charges for bumper moulding LHF, the bumper rear scratch and the tyre 
inflation kit, leaving Mr A £732.41 to pay.
2. Pay Mr A £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. This should be 
paid directly to him, rather than used to reduce the debt he owes..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman