DRN-1800675
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc has reported their information 
to credit reference agencies. To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs M want HSBC to report 
their information correctly and to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mr M 
has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have two mortgage accounts with HSBC. Several years ago the accounts fell 
into arrears. Mr and Mrs M arranged a payment plan for the arrears with HSBC, which they 
have kept to without fail for the last six years. HSBC has reviewed the arrangement every 
three months, and has renewed it. Despite making all required payments on time and in full, 
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that their credit reports show that their monthly mortgage 
payments for the last six years have been late.
Mr and Mrs M complained to HSBC. They raised a number of issues, not just the way the 
arrears were being reported, but about a county court judgement (CCJ) from February 2014 
which was still on their credit file, even though it had arisen due to an error by HSBC. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs M queried how their overpayments were being applied to the arrears. 
Mr and Mrs M were also unhappy in January 2020 that they had to complete an Income and 
Expenditure (I&E) form on two separate occasions, so the option of capitalisation of the 
arrears could be considered. Mr and Mrs M had also wanted to raise a complaint at that 
point, but it hadnt been escalated.
In its final response letter dated 11 January 2020 HSBC explained that the arrears (at that 
time) were the equivalent of 5 monthly payments, and that this is what showed on the credit 
file. As the arrears are repaid, this figure will reduce to reflect the total monthly aggregate of 
the arrears.
HSBC confirmed that the overpayments were being allocated directly to the arrears. The 
bank also apologised that Mr and Mrs M had been put to the inconvenience of having to go 
through the I&E twice, but ultimately capitalisation wasnt an option for Mr and Mrs M, 
because their disposable income was sufficient to clear the arrears, which would ultimately 
save them interest. HSBC apologised for not escalating the complaint. The bank offered £25 
compensation for the inconvenience in relation to the I&E, and £50 for not escalating the 
complaint.
In another final response dated 27 January 2020, HSBC explained that it hadnt registered a 
CCJ and that Mr and Mrs M should contact the court about this.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this and brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Their main concern is the way arrears are reported on the account, with Experian 
showing the account as being 5 months late.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that HSBC 
was reporting the arrears correctly. The investigator was also satisfied that HSBC had done 
nothing wrong in renewing the payment arrangement every three months; it was up to 
Mr and Mrs M if they wanted to increase their overpayments. The investigator noted Mr and 
Mrs M had been inconvenienced by completing the I&Es, but agreed with HSBC that 
capitalisation of arrears wasnt the best option. The investigator also noted that HSBC had 
clarified that it hadnt registered a CCJ against Mr and Mrs M.
Overall, the investigator thought the £75 offered by HSBC was fair and reasonable.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings, and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. Hes provided copies of his credit report and information from Experian in 
support of his contention that HSBC is reporting his payment arrangement as late 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
The main issue in this complaint is that Mr and Mrs M say that HSBC is reporting late 
payments on their mortgage accounts, despite them paying their monthly repayments and 
overpayments on time. As a result, they say this has had an impact on their ability to raise 
credit elsewhere.
Ive looked at the credit reports provided, and I agree that Experian shows the mortgages as 
being 5 months late. This does not mean that payments are not being made on time. What 
it means is that the account is 5 months in arrears. Its unfortunate Experian uses the word 
late for this. I can see that this in turn has caused confusion when Mr M tried to sort this out 
with Experian.  I believe Experian misunderstood  because Mr M was told by Experian that 
HSBC can remove late payment markers if payments are being made on time. Im satisfied 
HSBC has not recorded late payment markers, but it appears this is what Experian thought 
was being referred to, rather than an accumulation of arrears that remains outstanding.
As an example, if a mortgage repayment is £500 per month and the account is 6 months in 
arrears, the arrears will be £3,000. If those arrears are cleared at £100 per month, it will take 
five months  so 5 x £100  to reduce the arrears so that after five months the account is 
only 5 months in arrears on the credit report, and another 5 months of payments at £100 to 
show the account as being 4 months in arrears, and so on. I do not know why Experian 
describes this as late but Im satisfied that its not something HSBC has any control over.As far as the other complaint points are concerned, Im satisfied with HSBCs explanation 
that it has not registered a CCJ against Mr and Mrs M. If this is showing on their credit 
reports, they will need to contact the court about this.
HSBC has renewed the payment arrangement every three months, as it has been conducted 
satisfactorily. Its always open to Mr and Mrs M to increase the amount theyre overpaying if 
they want to pay off the arrears more quickly. If they want to do this, theyll need to contact 
HSBC, because if they just begin making additional overpayments, these may be applied to 
the account in a different way, rather than to the arrears. 
I agree that capitalisation of the arrears isnt the most suitable option for Mr and Mrs M, if 
they are able to maintain overpayments. Capitalisation increases the amount of interest over 
the term of the mortgage and so will cost more in the long run. If Mr and Mrs M are able to 
maintain (or increase) their overpayments, this is the better option.
Its unfortunate there was a customer service failing in early January 2020 when two I&Es 
needed to be completed. HSBC has offered £25 for this, which I think is fair. The bank has 
offered a further £50 for not escalating a complaint. The way HSBC handles complaints 
doesnt fall within the scope of a regulated activity, and so isnt something I can consider, as 
its outside our remit. This means I cant comment on this aspect of Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC is reporting the arrears correctly and it is Experians unfortunate 
use of the word late to describe the arrears which has led Mr and Mrs M (mistakenly) to 
believe HSBC is reporting late payments. Im satisfied this is not the case, and so I dont 
require HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs M to 
decide if they want to accept the £75 offered by HSBC UK Bank Plc in full and final 
settlement of their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman