DRN-3248945
The complaint
Ms B has complained about Lowell Financial Ltd recording a default on her credit file for an 
account which she says was not hers.
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account which opened in 2014, received 
payments until 2016, defaulted in 2017, and then was sold to Lowell that same year. 
In early 2021, Ms B complained. She said shed recently had an application turned down due 
to the default. She said the account was not hers, and noted that the last name on the 
account was different to the one she went by. She said shed never used that name. She 
also asked for a copy of certain documents like the credit agreement and statements.
Lowell explained that theyd run a trace and found that the account was set up in a name 
registered as an alias of Ms Bs. It used her correct date of birth and was registered to her 
address at the time. So they thought that it was her account and that they were correct to 
report the default. They had asked the original creditor for the required documents but had 
not heard back, and so in view of this they decided to close the account and to no longer 
pursue the debt. But they maintained that it was Ms Bs debt.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
noted that items had been delivered to Ms Bs address at the time and there were payments 
made to the account. They also thought it was Ms Bs account.
Ms B didnt agree. She maintained shed never used that last name. She suggested a former 
housemate may have opened the account in her name. The complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Ms B and Lowell a provisional decision on 14 December 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Lowell are not required to prove beyond all reasonable doubt that this is Ms Bs account. But 
I have looked carefully at all the evidence involved, and thought about the balance of 
probabilities, in order to determine whether its most likely that this is Ms Bs account or not. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think it is  Ill explain why.
The name on this account was Ms Bs first name, and the last name of a person who 
appears to have been her partner at the time. I can see that she and this person lived 
together at various addresses over the years and are financially associated together. They 
have been consistently linked together by the credit reference agency through the years, 
with Ms B sometimes being referred to as Mrs. I dont find it unusual for someone to take 
their partners last name, and that explains rather neatly why the last name on this account 
may differ from Ms Bs birth name.
Further, the name on this account  including the last name  is registered as a known alias 
of Ms Bs by the credit reference agency. To clarify, this alias was already registered before 
Lowell traced Ms B to her current address. Lowell did not register the alias themselves.
I think its most likely that the name on the account is a genuine alias of Ms Bs.
So I think this account was opened in Ms Bs name. It was also opened with her correct date 
of birth, and it was registered to her address at the time. Ms B had other genuine accounts at 
that address and its in her credit history, so Im satisfied it was her genuine address.
The account was active for over two years, and in that period Ms B would have received 
quite a large amount of goods and correspondence at her address. Ms B suggested that a 
housemate may have done this, but it is very unlikely indeed that a housemate would have 
managed to intercept every single delivery or letter for over two years without Ms B or her 
partner ever noticing all the things arriving in her name. Further, this account received 
frequent payments up to mid-2016. And it would be highly unusual for a fraudster to pay 
towards their fraudulent activity. Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence which substantiates that 
this account was opened by anyone other than Ms B.
So taking everything into consideration, I think this was most likely Ms Bs account. And so 
I think its fair that its default is showing on her credit file.
Ms B pointed out that she has another account with the same original creditor. But theres 
nothing unusual about that. Its under a different trading name, and she can open different 
accounts with different trading names. It was also opened quite some time after this one 
closed.
I also understand that Ms B is unhappy about Lowell tracing her address. But Lowell were 
entitled to trace her address as part of collecting the debt.
Lastly, I understand that Ms B is unhappy with the way that Lowell handled her complaint  
for example, I understand there were issues in getting a copy of their final response. Thats 
not something I could normally consider, as we can only consider complaints about 
regulated activities  such as collecting a debt. But handling complaints is not a regulated 
activity in and of itself. So strictly speaking, those points are not within our jurisdiction.
But even if I set that aside, it appears that the issues in communication arose mainly 
because Lowell were trying to make sure they were talking to the right person, which does 
not seem unreasonable. And even if I had found Lowell to have done something wrong 
there, theyve already written off over £1,200 of debt  which is worth far more than any 
compensation I would have awarded for this issue. So I dont make any award there.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
11 January 2022. But neither Ms B nor Lowell sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
the provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman