DRN-3641530
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about poor mortgage advice from First Complete Ltd (trading as 
PRIMIS Mortgage Network). They ask that it refunds the brokers fee and valuation fee. Mr 
and Mrs N are represented by a solicitor in bringing this complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N asked First Complete for mortgage advice. They wanted to refinance two 
existing mortgages and take out further borrowing. Mr and Mrs N say they told First 
Complete this might be difficult due to the construction of their property.
First Complete recommended a mortgage and made an application on behalf of Mr and 
Mrs N. A valuation was carried out on behalf of the lender. The valuer said the property was 
outside the lenders criteria due to its construction. Mr and Mrs N say First Complete should 
have checked the lenders policy before making the application. 
Our investigator said First Complete needed to gather information about the property as part 
of its fact finding. It should have checked whether the property was outside the lenders 
criteria. The investigator said First Complete should refund the brokers fee and valuation fee 
and pay compensation. 
First Complete didnt agree and set out a number of reasons for this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
First Complete carried out a fact find with Mr and Mrs N. In its fact find the property is 
described as detached, with walls constructed of timber and a slate roof. It says the property 
is a barn conversion with a clay roof. 
The lenders published criteria say it may consider on an individual referral basis timber 
framed properties. Its published criteria lists unacceptable property types, including timber 
framed properties with no brick skin. 
The valuer said the property was outside the lenders policy because it has historic timber 
frame construction and is not clad externally with masonry.
Mr and Mrs N say they told First Complete about the property construction. They say they 
told the adviser they anticipated difficulty re-mortgaging because the property is fully timber 
framed and timber clad. I think its likely they did. Otherwise, I dont know why First Complete 
would have recorded that the walls were made of timber in the fact find. Mr and Mrs N say 
they were assured that the broker had expertise in securing loans for properties of this kind 
and would consider this when selecting a lender.
First Complete gave a number of reasons why it didnt think it made an error.
First, it said the fact find doesnt state the property had no bricks on the outside. It said Mr N 
gave a vague answer about having done the build himself and that bricks had been used 
and that was all the information he provided. I dont think thats consistent with the fact find 
which says the walls are made of timber. But if the broker found the answer vague, they 
could have asked for a clearer response. If First Complete thought the walls were made of 
brick I dont know why it recorded in the fact find that they were made of timber.
First Complete also said the lenders brick skin requirement relates to modern construction 
methods and not a period property. Thats not how the published criteria read to me. And 
this isnt consistent with the valuers comments that the property was outside policy because 
it had historic timber frame construction and is not clad externally with masonry. 
First Complete provided a recording of a recent call with the lenders call centre. Its staff 
member said his understanding was that a period timber framed property would be 
considered. He said his understanding was that the brick skin requirement relates to modern 
methods of construction. But the discussion and confirmation was whether the lender would 
consider a period timber framed property, subject to valuation. This isnt in dispute. The 
issue is that the walls were also timber (i.e. not brick), and this was outside the lenders 
criteria. 
First Complete said the lender confirmed it would consider Mr and Mrs Ns application, 
subject to the valuation. It cant provide evidence of this, or that it gave the lender correct 
and complete information about the property before receiving any such assurance. Given the 
potential issues with the propertys construction and the lenders published criteria, Id expect 
First Complete to have checked carefully whether the lender would consider the application. 
Id expect it have some record of this, and to ensure the description of the property in the 
application was clear and accurate. The mortgage application completed by First Complete 
didnt mention the property construction or that it was listed. It says the property was built in 
1980, when the fact find says it was built some 200 years earlier and converted into a house 
in 2006. 
First Complete said its unfair to expect its brokers to be qualified property surveyors. I dont 
think thats the expectation. I think the expectation is that, having been told the property has 
a timber frame and timber walls, it would check this was within the lenders criteria. 
Lastly, First Complete said there were no other lenders on its panel that would have offered 
Mr and Mrs N a mortgage (they wanted an interest only mortgage which further narrowed 
their options). It said Mr and Mrs N were initially delighted the lender it recommended would 
consider their application, and there was nothing more it could do without the valuation being 
carried out. 
I understand the point First Complete makes here, about the limited available options. But 
that doesnt make it fair to allow Mr and Mrs N to incur costs when it should have known that 
the property was outside the lenders criteria and the application was unlikely to be 
successful. Having consider the points made by First Complete, I think this is something it 
knew or ought to have known. The lenders published criteria say timber framed properties 
with no brick skin are unacceptable. The fact find says Mr and Mrs Ns property had walls 
constructed of timber. And the reason given by the surveyor for the property being outside 
the lenders criteria was that it has historic timber frame construction and wasnt clad 
externally with masonry.I dont think First Complete should have recommended that Mr and Mrs N apply for a 
mortgage and incur costs when they didnt meet the lenders criteria. 
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs Ns representative says they were assured the lender would offer a mortgage. I 
think thats unlikely as their application would always be subject to the lenders checks. 
There could have been other issues raised in the application process, with affordability or in 
the valuation. 
But it seems unlikely Mr and Mrs N would have chosen to incur the brokers fee and the 
valuation fee knowing the application was likely to be declined. I think First Complete should 
return Mr and Mrs N to the position they were in before they made an application to this 
lender. It should:
Pay £200 to Mr and Mrs N for the trouble and upset caused by its errors
Refund or compensate Mr and Mrs N for the brokers/application fee of £399 
Refund or compensate Mr and Mrs N for the valuation fee of £1,090.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order First Complete Ltd (trading as PRIMIS 
Mortgage Network) to pay the compensation set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman