DRN-3110008
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a life and critical illness assurance 
policy.
In raising this complaint Ms S has been helped by a third party(s). But, for ease of refence, 
Ill only refer to Ms S. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In January 2002, Ms S was sold a life and critical illness assurance policy by a firm that 
Barclays has since acquired liability for. It provided just over £63,000 of cover over a 15-year 
term for premiums of about £39 per month. 
Ms S tried to claim under the policy in 2016. The insurer considered the claim under the 
following critical illness definitions: stroke, kidney failure and permanent and total disability. 
The claim was declined by the insurer as they didnt think Ms Ss medical records showed 
that shed met the required definitions. The insurer also added that her records showed 
several medical conditions may not have been correctly disclosed to them when the policy 
application was completed. But, as they were unable to consider a claim for Ms S, they 
wouldnt be investigating it any further at that time  although they reserved the right to do 
so.
The policy expired at the end of its term in January 2017. 
Ms S complained to Barclays about the sale of the policy in 2021. Ms S thought the adviser 
failed to complete the application form correctly by not disclosing her full medical issues or 
obtaining her medical records. She said the adviser was focussed on completing the 
application form as quickly as possible for commission reasons. And she explained that she 
didnt speak or understand English well at the time. Ms S wanted a refund of the premiums 
she paid. 
Barclays rejected the complaint. They said the policy was suitable for Ms Ss circumstances 
at the time as it met her family protection need. And they didnt agree the policy was 
recommended by the adviser for commission reasons. Barclays did acknowledge Ms Ss 
concerns about the potential language barrier when it was sold. But they explained the policy 
didnt commence at the time of the meeting but twelve days later following correspondence 
between Ms S and the insurer. This included the insurer writing to Ms S to request further 
medical information needed for their underwriting, as well as them subsequently asking her 
to confirm acceptance of the policy terms. So, the policy couldnt have been set up without 
this and Ms S had time to check and translate the information before it started.
As Ms S remained dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think the policy was mis-sold. In short, she said:
Asthma and minor depression were disclosed in the application form. So, its 
reasonable to assume that if Ms S told the adviser of other medical conditions then 
they wouldve been included too. 
The decision to request medical records lied with the insurer, not Barclays.
She considered Ms Ss concerns about not fully understanding English at the time. 
But she noted that, after the application took place, Ms S completed and returned the 
questionnaire about depression to the insurer. And that Ms S also sent the insurer 
signed confirmation of her acceptance of the policy terms. While Ms S disputes it 
being her handwriting in the signed confirmation letter, they were sent to her directly. 
And so, if she had any concerns about the policy application then she had the 
opportunity to seek assistance at that time. 
She noted Ms S had also raised concerns about struggling to pay the premiums. But 
there wasnt anything to show Ms S had informed the insurer about any financial 
difficulties or that she was struggling to pay the premiums. If this was the case, she 
wouldve considered it reasonable for Ms S to have let the insurer know.  
Ms S disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
Before I go on to explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to clarify that Im 
only looking at the sale of the policy here. So, I wont be commenting on the insurers 
decision to decline Ms Ss 2016 claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Ms S is unwell and that this matter is causing her distress. I appreciate 
the importance of this matter to Ms S and so I want to reassure her that Ive given everything 
shes said careful consideration. But, while I know this isnt the outcome Ms S is hoping for, I 
dont think I can fairly conclude the policy was mis-sold. Let me explain why. 
Ive firstly considered the suitability of life and critical illness cover for Ms S. And, given 
Ms S had children and wanted to take out cover to financially protect them in the event 
something happened to her, I think the policy recommended was appropriate. Ms S has also 
stressed to our service the importance of this cover to her. So much so that, when she was 
struggling financially, she had to cut back on food and other expenses to ensure the 
premiums were paid. This was because she says she had no choice as she needed to 
ensure something was in place to protect her children. Its therefore clear that this cover is 
something Ms S wanted and Im satisfied it met her family protection need. 
Ive thought about affordability too. But I dont think theres enough evidence to show the 
premiums were unaffordable when Ms S applied for cover. This is because, while the 
premium cost dropped after the insurers underwriting process, the initial premium quoted 
was for £40 per month. So, although there isnt anything to show Ms Ss disposable income 
was assessed, it seems most probable given the rounded premium figure - that 
Ms S applied for cover based on what was affordable to her at the time, instead of a specific 
sum assured. 
On a further note, Im aware Ms S has said that she was going through a divorce at that time 
and so she was in a vulnerable position emotionally. Although Im sympathetic to the situation Ms S was in, I dont think it means life and critical illness cover wasnt appropriate 
for her. It follows that I think it was reasonable for the adviser to recommend life and critical 
illness cover to Ms S.
Ms S has however argued that the adviser failed to disclose her full medical history in the 
application form. And that he was more focussed on setting up the policy for commission 
reasons. So, he got her to apply for cover and sign the application form even though he was 
fully aware she didnt fully understand English. 
At this point Id like to explain that its unclear what medical conditions the insurer referred to 
as possibly not being correctly disclosed when the policy application was completed. Their 
response to Ms Ss claim doesnt specifically detail these and the insurer said they wouldnt 
be investigating it any further at that time. Nevertheless, Ive considered whether I feel the 
adviser is responsible for any potential non-disclosure or mis-representation of Ms Ss 
health. 
I cant be sure what level of understanding Ms S had of the English language at the point of 
application. And, as I wasnt present at the meeting, I likewise cant be sure what was 
discussed between Ms S and the adviser  or how much of the application process she 
understood. However, I think it is particularly relevant that asthma and minor depression 
were disclosed within the application form (which I understand the adviser completed for 
Ms S). I believe this is important because if Ms S was able to convey these conditions to the 
adviser, then I think its reasonable to assume that she wouldve likewise been able to 
explain other conditions too. And I consider it most likely that, had this happened, the adviser 
wouldve included these in the application form.
Further to this, I understand the insurer subsequently wrote to Ms S directly and asked her to 
complete a questionnaire about her depression  which she did. And that she also sent the 
insurer confirmation of acceptance of the policy terms offered to her. Im aware that she 
disputes the handwriting on this confirmation letter as being hers. But, given it was sent 
directly to Ms S, I see no reason to think it wouldnt have been received and so she may 
have sought assistance to help her complete it. I therefore think Ms S had the opportunity to 
review the policy application and terms offered to her before deciding to proceed. And, if she 
had any concerns about the suitability of cover or what medical conditions/information had 
been disclosed, then she couldve likewise raised these with the insurer or sought further 
assistance if required. I cant see that this happened. 
In any event, even if a medical condition wasnt accurately disclosed, Im not persuaded 
Ms S has suffered as a result. This is because the claim declined in 2016 wasnt due to a 
mis-representation of health. But rather, the insurer declined the claim as Ms S hadnt 
suffered a critical illness as defined under the policy. So, the issue of a possible 
misrepresentation didnt impact Ms Ss claim. It follows that I dont think a loss has been 
suffered as a result of a medical condition potentially not being correctly disclosed, or that 
theres enough evidence to show Barclays would be responsible for it if there was. 
On a final note, Id also like to reiterate  as our investigator explained  that it is for the 
insurer to decide whether medical records are obtained or not. Barclays role was to 
recommend suitable cover for Ms S and assist in applying for the policy. So, if medical 
records werent obtained by the insurer then Barclays cannot be held responsible for that. 
I realise Ms S will be disappointed by this outcome but, for the above reasons, I dont think 
Barclays mis-sold her the policy.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman