DRN-2446513
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned down their business 
interruption insurance claim after their business was forced to close due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L hold a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. Mr and Mrs L 
claimed on their policy after their business was required to close due to the Governments 
actions in response to Covid-19. 
Allianz said that the policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs Ls claim because while the policy 
covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable disease at the premises, Mr and   
Mrs Ls business had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the national 
pandemic. 
 
As Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with Allianzs response, they brought their complaint to our 
service. They felt their business had been required to close through no fault of their own and 
explained the financial impact the closure had on their business. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought Allianz had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
He thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at 
the premises. And Mr and Mrs L had confirmed the closure was due to the Government Act 
in response to the national pandemic.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators view. They referred to the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) test case and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr and Mrs Ls business. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be 
upholding their complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if Allianz has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mr and Mrs Ls claim. 
The most relevant part of the policy covers Mr and Mrs Ls business for: 
a  closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable Human 
Disease occurring at the Premises
Notifiable Human Disease is defined in the policy as: 
An illness sustained by any person caused by 
a  food or drink poisoning
b  any human infectious or contagious disease an outbreak of which the competent local 
authority has stipulated shall be notified to them
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, as defined by the policy, but I dont think this term covers Mr 
and Mrs Ls claim. I say that because the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
Mr and Mrs Ls premises to have been the result of a case of the notifiable human disease 
occurring at the premises. Mr and Mrs L have confirmed that they closed the premises as a 
result of the Government-imposed lockdown, rather than because there was a case of 
Covid-19 at their premises. 
Mr and Mrs L have referred to the FCAs test case. But the policy terms considered in the 
test case were different to those in Mr and Mrs Ls policy. So, I dont believe that the 
outcome of the case impacts on their claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs L were hoping for, but having considered this 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask Allianz to pay the claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman