DRN-1724282
The complaint
Mr D complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Mercedes-Benz Financial services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
In November 2017 Mr D was supplied with a new car and entered into a contract purchase 
agreement with MBFS.
In or around January 2019, some 14 months after the point of supply, the car started going 
into limp mode intermittently. Mr D also experienced other issues. Repairs were carried out 
including repairs to the collision prevention assist, the parking sensor, replacement of a 
pressure sensor and an engine update.
In March 2019 further repairs were carried out to the collision prevention assist and the 
parking sensor loom. Mr D reported that he was experiencing a loss in power, but the 
dealership wasnt able to replicate this or find a fault.
In August 2019 the car was returned to the dealership with loss of power, but no fault was 
found.
Mr D complained to MBFS and asked to reject the car. In its final response MBFS 
acknowledged that Mr D had reported a loss of power but said the dealership had been 
unable to replicate this or find any faults. MBFS said that because the issues experienced by 
Mr D arose after 12 months from the start of the agreement it didnt agree that the issues 
were present or developing at the point of supply. It said there were no grounds to reject the 
car.
Mr D wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He provided video 
evidence showing the loss of power issue which he said hed previously sent to the 
dealership. MBFS said it hadnt seen the video evidence before. It reviewed it and said Mr D 
should book the car in with the dealership for a diagnostic test.
Mr D returned the car to the dealership and further repairs were carried out. There was a 
delay of several weeks whilst the car went backwards and forward for repairs several times.
In January 2020 Mr D contacted this service again and said the car had gone into limp mode 
again. He provide further video evidence and said the start/stop wasnt functioning as well.
Mr D agreed to return the car to the dealership again but the dealership wasnt able to 
provide a suitable courtesy car for Mr D. As a result, Mr D didnt return the car to the 
dealership. MBFS said it hadnt been given the opportunity to investigate the issues.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that based on the repair history and the video 
evidence he didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality. He thought that MBFS should 
allow Mr D to reject the car.
MBFS didnt agree. It said Mr D didnt report the issues until 14 months into the agreement 
and that there wasnt any evidence to show that the faults were present at the point of 
supply. It said it had reviewed the video evidence but it didnt agree that this proved that 
there was a fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MBFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. In this 
case the car supplied to Mr D was brand new. Satisfactory quality also includes durability, 
which means that the components in the car should be durable and last a reasonable period. 
Id expect a brand-new car to be of a very high standard and remain fault free for a 
reasonable period, taking other relevant circumstances such as mileage into account.
Mr D and MBFS disagree about whether the car has an inherent fault. In order to reach a 
decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, faults which occur in the first 6 months are presumed 
to have been present at the point of supply unless the busies can show otherwise. The 
business is allowed done opportunity to repair the car. After 6 months its up to the consumer 
to show that the car had a fault which was present or developing at the point of supply. 
Because Mr D had the car for more than 6 months before the fault arose, its up to him to 
show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. Mr D first experienced 
the fault 14 months into the agreement. Since then, there have been several repair attempts 
and the car wasnt available for Mr D to drive for a total of around 3 months. Mr D relies on 
the video evidence hes provided and on the fact that attempts to repair the fault have failed.
Ive reviewed the video evidence and although Ive taken account of what MBFS has said 
about it, on balance Im persuaded that the evidence supports the fault reported by Mr D. 
Ive had regard to the age and mileage of the car when the fault was first reported. It was 
around 14 months old and had covered approximately 20,000 miles. I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect a car of this age and mileage to develop a fault of this 
nature so early on in the agreement. I think its reasonable to expect a brand new car to 
remain fault free for longer than 14 months. So, although the fault was identified after 1 year 
doesnt matter in these circumstances, because the car in my opinion wasnt durable. Im 
satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
Although MBFS has said the car benefits from a warranty, I think the business has already 
had reasonable opportunity to repair the fault because the car has been returned to the 
dealership several times. Based on what Ive seen, the repairs havent been successful. So I 
think its fair to ask MBFS to allow Mr D to reject the car.
Its clear that Mr D has been impacted by matters. Hes explained that he uses the car to 
transport his children and that it was stressful not knowing if and when the car would go into 
limp mode. Hes also said he was particularly concerned when travelling at speed. Ive taken into account the number of times Mr D has had to return the car to the dealership. Taking all 
of this into account, I think MBFS should compensate Mr D for distress and inconvenience.
Mr D was left without use of the car for a  total of approximately 3 months whilst it was with 
the dealership. However, he was provided with a courtesy car throughout, so I wont be 
asking MBFs to refund any monthly payments.
MBFS has referred to other decisions by this service in relation to refunding the deposit. 
Each case which this service investigates is considered on its own merits. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think its reasonable to ask MBFS to refund the deposit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr D
Refund the deposit minus any dealership contribution and pay simple interest at 8% 
on this from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file
Pay compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman