DRN-3250767
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs M are unhappy Principality Building Society (PBS) declined their mortgage 
application.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs M were applying for a mortgage via a broker. The broker obtained an 
illustration from PBS on 19 October 2020. Based on this illustration, an application was 
submitted by the broker on Mr C and Mrs Ms behalf.
Mr C and Mrs M paid PBS £380 for a valuation of the property, when the application was 
submitted. The illustration had set out that this fee was payable on application, and non-
refundable.
PBS asked for information to support the application and check that it met its lending criteria. 
Ive seen evidence that, on 27 October 2020, it asked for information including bank 
statements for Mr Cs current account.
Some of the information requested was submitted over the following weeks but PBS notes 
indicate it didnt receive the bank statements it had asked for until 25 November 2020. These 
were then reviewed by an underwriter. The underwriter felt that the expenditure figure 
provided as part of the application wasnt accurate. This was because the bank statements 
showed outgoings that hadnt been accounted for. The application was reviewed taking into 
account the increased expenditure shown in the bank statements. But PBS was unable to 
provide the borrowing that Mr C and Mrs M wanted.
Mr C and Mrs M complained to PBS. They said they felt it had handled their application 
poorly and hadnt requested everything it ought to have in one go. Instead it had asked for 
information gradually, which meant the application went on longer than it needed to. They 
said they felt PBS had never intended to approve their application and was looking for an 
excuse. And they felt the application had been declined due to their ethnicity. They were also 
unhappy that theyd had to pay for a valuation  which hadnt been necessary.
PBS said it didnt think it had done anything wrong and the application had been correctly 
declined in line with its lending criteria. Unhappy with this response Mr C and Mrs M asked 
our service to investigate the complaint.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. She was satisfied that PBS had asked for 
relevant information shortly after the application had started and that it wasnt responsible for 
this not being provided immediately. She also thought PBS decision to decline the 
application was fair. And she said there was nothing to suggest this was discriminatory. She 
also didnt think the valuation fee needed to be refunded as the mortgage illustration had 
explained this was payable on application and not refundable.
Mr C and Mrs M didnt agree with the Investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Mrs M are unhappy as they say that PBS has asked for different information at 
different times and feel it shouldve requested all of the relevant information at once, as it 
was aware of its general requirements.
Before agreeing to lend, PBS needed to be satisfied that this application met its lending 
criteria. This involved asking for additional information. Which I dont think is unreasonable. I 
also think it is reasonable that, during the course of assessing an application, PBS might 
receive information which means it has to ask additional questions. From the information Ive 
seen here though, it appears that PBS requested information from the broker on 27 October 
2020. There dont appear to have been further information requests  rather some of the 
information asked for wasnt immediately provided and this was chased. I cant speak for the 
communication between the broker and Mr C and Mrs M, but Im satisfied that PBS acted 
fairly when requesting additional information.
On receipt of bank statements, PBS underwriter noted that there was regular expenditure, 
from Mr Cs account that hadnt been accounted for in the application. These were regular 
gambling transactions over a couple of months. Mr C and Mrs M have said that they dont 
think that these are relevant as they wouldnt have continued after the mortgage. But I think 
PBS has acted fairly by making its lending decision on the information available to it.
Ive seen a copy of PBS lending criteria and Im satisfied it has acted in line with this when 
assessing the application following the receipt of bank statements  with the underwriter 
using their discretion when assessing these transactions. Ultimately the underwriter felt 
these should be considered regular expenditure and that meant the application wasnt 
deemed affordable under PBS lending criteria.
Lenders are entitled to set their own lending criteria, and this is not something our service 
can interfere with. Here Im satisfied that the application was fairly considered in line with 
PBS lending criteria. So, I dont think PBS has acted incorrectly, when declining the 
mortgage application.
Mr C and Mrs M have said they think that PBS has discriminated against them. But as Ive 
said, Im satisfied that the application was fairly and correctly assessed, in line with PBS 
criteria, and was declined on the basis of affordability  which PBS was entitled to decide. 
And Ive seen nothing to suggest there was any other reason for the application being 
declined. 
Mr C and Mrs M are unhappy that theyve had to pay a £380 valuation fee, which has not 
been refunded. They believe theyve paid this fee unnecessarily, given PBS declined their 
application based on affordability.
The mortgage illustration confirms that the valuation fee is payable on application and is 
non-refundable. So, I think Mr C and Mrs M were aware, before they decided to apply for this 
mortgage, that theyd need to pay this fee and that it wouldnt be refunded in the event the 
application was not successful.
PBS has explained its process is to arrange a valuation, while assessing an application in 
order to avoid delays. I cant require a business to change its processes. And I dont think 
there was anything in the initial information submitted by the broker that wouldve reasonably 
led PBS to think there would be a problem with Mr C and Mrs Ms application. It was only on receipt of additional information, that this came to light. So, I dont think PBS was wrong to 
follow its usual process here and instruct a valuation. PBS has also provided evidence that 
the valuation was carried out. So, I think the fee for this has been charged fairly, and I cant 
reasonably require PBS to refund it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman