DRN-3336656
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Studio Retail Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs W opened a shopping account with Studio Retail in 2011. Due to the time that has 
passed since then there isnt a record of what her initial account limit was, although we know 
that by July 2013 it was £500. Over a period of years her credit limit was increased many 
times until, in December 2015, it was £1,950.
Mrs W says that she couldnt afford the credit and that she ended up in serious debt as a 
result.  Mrs W says that Studio Retail shouldnt have lent to her because she was 
unemployed. She says when she asked for help Studio Retail continued to keep adding 
interest and late payment fees.
Studio Retail didnt agree to us looking at anything that happened in relation to Mrs Ws 
account before 5 February 2015. This is because Mrs W had six years to complain about 
things that went wrong, and she didnt complain until 4 February 2021. Mrs W has agreed to 
this.
Studio Retail says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mrs W  and when it 
increased her credit limit. Studio Retail says that it acted appropriately and fairly when it 
knew Mrs W had got into difficulty and that it didnt need to have done anything more.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Ws complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
when Studio Retail increased Mrs Ws credit limit in February 2015 and beyond that it should 
have found out more about Mrs Ws financial circumstances and that if it had, it would have 
seen the credit was unmanageable for Mrs W.
Studio Retail disagreed. It said it had done proportionate checks throughout the life of Mrs 
Ws account and there was no evidence of financial difficulty.
As Studio Retail disagrees the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Ws complaint.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, how quickly the debt was being paid off and Mrs Ws income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
I can only make findings on the lending from 5 February 2015. But Ive looked at the pattern 
of lending prior to this so I can understand what happened later on. I can see that between 
July 2013 and December 2014 Mrs Ws outstanding balance had been low  under £150. 
But she hadnt been able to clear it, even though she was making regular payments and she 
remained indebted over a long period. 
Mrs Ws credit limit was increased in January 2015 and I agree with our adjudicator that 
when Studio Retail increased Mrs Ws limit further in February 2015 to £1,300, Mrs W hadnt 
been able to demonstrate  that she could manage the higher level of credit. 
I think it would have been reasonable for Studio Retail to have found out more about Mrs 
Ws income, costs and expenditure at this point, to make sure she could afford the repay the 
additional credit in an affordable and sustainable way. 
We asked Mrs W to provide copies of her bank statements from 2015. Mrs W told us her 
only income was about £600 per month from benefits and she wasnt working. Taking into 
account her likely living costs and outgoings I dont think she had enough spare to repay a 
balance of £1,300 in a sustainable way and within a reasonable period of time. And I dont 
think the later increases were suitable for her either. 
Mrs W didnt always fully utilise her credit and her highest balance was £1,668. However, 
although it seems she was able to manage when the balance was low, it seems she would 
have struggled as it began to increase. 
Mrs W missed payments in February, March and April 2016 and incurred administration fees 
as a result. And while the balance remained under £550 until October 2016, by December 
2016 it had increased substantially to over £1, 500. 
Although Mrs W was making repayments after this it doesnt necessarily mean she was 
doing this in a sustainable way or that the credit was affordable for her. I think better checks 
at the time of the credit increases would have revealed they werent suitable for her. 
Mrs W got in touch with Studio Retail in August 2019 to make it aware of her financial 
situation. Ive seen notes that indicate once Mrs W provided Studio Retail of evidence of her 
difficulties that a payment plan was set up and she didnt incur any more interest or charges. 
So I think Studio Retail acted fairly once it had been told Mrs W had financial difficulties.
Putting things right
I am partially upholding Mrs Ws complaint. To put things right Studio Retail should:
Remove all interest and charges incurred on the account after 26 February 2015. 
Specifically, it can only add interest accrued on the balance up to the credit limit of 
£1,050 which was the credit limit before February 2015. And I think it is fair that no 
interest and charges are added from October 2019 when the payment plan was set 
up. 
Work out how much Mrs W would have owed after the above adjustments. Any repayment made by Mrs W since February 2015 should be used to reduce the 
adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mrs
W along with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the date of overpayment to the
date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mrs W no longer owes any money then all
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file 
from February 2015 onwards.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Studio Retail should look to arrange an
affordable payment plan with Mrs W for the outstanding amount. If the debt was
sold to a third party (which I understand it was), Studio Retail are to either 
repurchase the debt or liaise with the third-party to ensure the above steps are 
undertaken. Once Mrs W has cleared the balance, any adverse information should 
be removed from the credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs W a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If Studio Retail intends to apply the refund to reduce an 
outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think Studio Retail Limited acted unfairly when it increased Mrs Ws credit limit in February 
2015 and on each time after that. To put this right I direct Studio Retail Limited to pay 
compensation as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman