DRN-3030831
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Miss M says American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ms 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AMEX made it clear that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because AMEX has provided a copy of Miss Ms postal application, 
which has a section about PPI on it. There is a tick in the box to say yes to PPI and 
Miss M has signed the form to confirm her selections.
AMEX didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss M enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AMEX gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss M. Although Miss M 
says she had a medical condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think 
better information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused her to 
change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this because the condition seems to 
have been one off injury and Miss M hasnt said that there were any ongoing problems 
by the time the policy was sold. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Miss M would have declined the cover had AMEX done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Miss M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AMEX should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AMEX doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman