DRN-3469489
Complaint
Mrs C has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mrs C with a loan for £3,000.00 in August 2020. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £190. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Cs complaint and she thought 118 118 Money 
shouldnt have provided Mrs C with this loan. So she thought that Mrs Cs complaint should 
be upheld. 118 118 Money didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Cs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mrs C could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Despite being provided with an extended period of time to do so, 118 118 Money hasnt 
explained why it disagrees with our investigators assessment. Nonetheless, Ive looked at 
the information 118 118 Money obtained when it provided this loan in an attempt to 
determine whether it made a fair lending decision. 
The information 118 118 Money has provided suggested that 118 118 Money carried out a 
credit check. The results of which clearly demonstrated that Mrs C was already significantly 
indebted, had a number of existing accounts which had defaulted and was in a position 
where she was taking out cash advances on credit cards. The credit search also shows a 
history of payday loans having been taken too. 
So Im persuaded by what Mrs C has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible her credit file reflected her choices rather than any 
financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, 
in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 118 118 Money, Ive been 
persuaded to accept Mrs Cs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs Cs difficulties managing her existing credit meant that 
she was unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into 
finding out about Mrs Cs income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like 
than not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mrs C. 
As 118 118 Money provided Mrs C with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs C has ended up paying (and is still being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on 
a loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs C lost out because of 
what 118 118 Money did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mrs C
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Mrs C by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mrs C made, to 118 118 Money (and any debt purchaser should the 
account have been sold), should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£3.000.00 originally lent. If Mrs C has already repaid more than £3,000.00 then      
118 118 Money should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments 
should be refunded to Mrs C;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mrs C to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information 118 118 Money recorded about this loan should be removed from       
Mrs Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
Id also remind 118 118 Money of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all 
adjustments have been made to the account (and it retains ownership of this), and its the 
case that Mrs C is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman