DRN-1580131
 
The complaint
Miss C says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Miss C bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as she took out a store card.
AXA didnt sell the PPI policy to Miss C, a third party did. But as the insurer, it has agreed to 
take responsibility for the sale. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Cs complaint because I dont think AXA gave her clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because the policy wouldnt pay disability 
benefit in connection with medical conditions that the customer knew about when they 
bought the policy. I think its unlikely that AXA pointed this out to Miss C when she bought 
the policy.
I think this would have mattered to Miss C because she had medical conditions which 
wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt have claimed on the policy for everything she 
expected to be covered.
I dont think Miss C would have bought the policy if shed had enough information about the 
policy. So, I think Miss C has lost out because of what the business did wrong.
Ive noted what AXA has said about the nature of Miss Cs conditions and the way in which 
they can be managed. Im mindful that the PPI sale took place many years ago, and I dont 
think its reasonable to expect Miss C to provide evidence of the severity of her conditions 
and how they affected her at the point of sale. Miss Cs testimony has been consistent 
throughout her complaint, and I dont think its unreasonable for me to accept what she says.
In conclusion, I dont think Miss C would have bought the PPI, for the reasons I have given, if 
shed had enough information about the policy. 
fair compensation
AXA should put Miss C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
AXA should find out how much Miss C would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums 
added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove 
any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest 
added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss C owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss C would have 
owed when she closed her account - from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
If  when AXA works out what Miss C would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss C paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss C wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
AXA should tell Miss C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Miss C in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman