DRN-3594714
The complaint
Mr H is a sole trader. He complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) twice 
cancelled and recalled funds it had provided him under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
What happened
Mr H banked with NatWest. He applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of £25,000 on 
6 May 2020. 
NatWest initially approved the application and the loan was drawn down into Mr Hs 
business account on 22 May. But on review, the bank reversed its decision. It terminated the 
agreement and removed the funds from Mr Hs account on 1 June. This ultimately left a debit 
balance of around £765 on the account.
When Mr H queried things with NatWest, the bank suggested that it had made an error in 
recalling the funds and invited him to reapply. So Mr H submitted a second application on 
4 August 2020, but this time he asked for £45,000.
NatWest again approved the application initially and on 8 September the loan was drawn 
down into a Bounce Back Loan feeder account, which had been set up for Mr H as he was in 
the process of switching his business account to another provider. However, after 
conducting a further review, the bank again decided not to provide the loan and terminated 
the agreement. It recalled the funds on 4 December 2020, with none having been utilised.
Mr H complained to NatWest about its actions. He thought he was eligible for the loan and 
didnt think the bank had acted fairly in recalling it, particularly after it had invited him to apply 
a second time. He said that hed placed a £20,000 order with a supplier in reliance on 
receiving the loan, which wouldve generated turnover of £200,000. He also said that the 
banks actions in recalling the first loan had left an overdrawn balance, to which interest was 
being added and that was now subject to recovery action. And he said the matter had 
severely impacted his business and personal life  causing significant stress, problems in his 
marriage and thoughts of suicide.
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that it had, ultimately, identified that it 
shouldnt have provided a loan to Mr H and so had correctly terminated the agreement. 
When Mr H subsequently referred the matter to us, NatWest said that it had made an error in 
how it handled the termination of the initial £25,000 loan. While maintaining that the loan was 
correctly defaulted, the bank offered £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
it had caused Mr H by using the funds held in his business account to settle the debt. It also 
offered to refund the interest that had accrued on the debit balance.
As Mr H didnt want to accept the banks offer, one of our investigators reviewed the 
complaint. He said that the Bounce Back Loan agreement allowed NatWest to terminate the 
loan in certain circumstances and that it had been reasonable for the bank to do so here. But 
he thought that NatWest should increase its offer of compensation to £300, to reflect the 
level of distress and inconvenience caused by the banks handling of the first loan and the 
subsequent debt recovery action that flowed from its termination.
NatWest accepted our investigators view, but Mr H didnt. So the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month, in which I explained that I didnt 
think NatWest had handled Mr Hs applications for a Bounce Back Loan as well as it should 
have but that it had been reasonable for the bank to decide not to provide him with a loan. I 
said:
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their turnover during the calendar year 2019. Mr H initially asked 
to borrow £25,000 and declared when making his application that his turnover during 
2019 was £100,000. In his second application, he asked to borrow £45,000 based on a 
declared turnover of £200,000. 
On review, NatWest wasnt satisfied that Mr H was eligible for the loans hed 
requested. And from the information Ive seen, I think that conclusion was reasonable. 
The turnover running through his business account with NatWest amounted to far less 
than either of the amounts declared in his applications. And he hasnt provided a copy 
of his tax returns, despite our requests, to confirm the position. 
I understand from what Mr H has said that he may have used an estimated turnover 
figure when applying. But only businesses established after 1 January 2019 could use 
an estimate. As Mr H had been trading prior to this date, he was required to use his 
actual turnover figure for the calendar year 2019.
So from what Ive seen, I dont think Mr H was eligible for either of the loans that he 
requested and obtained from NatWest. It is right, then, that NatWest declined to 
provide them in the end. 
There is, though, a legitimate question as to why NatWest approved each application 
and agreed to provide Mr H with a loan  only to then unwind things sometime later. 
Looking at the first application, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in initially 
approving the loan. In keeping with the rules of the Scheme, the bank relied on the 
information that Mr H had provided when considering whether he met the applicable 
eligibility criteria. Mr H had self-certified that he did and declared that the information 
hed provided was accurate. NatWest only had cause to question Mr Hs eligibility 
when subsequently conducting a review.
Once NatWest determined that Mr H was ineligible for the loan he had obtained, I think 
it was reasonable for the bank to take steps to recover it. Under the terms and 
conditions, the bank was entitled to terminate the loan and demand its immediate 
repayment in certain circumstances. This included where the bank deemed any 
material information given by Mr H to have been inaccurate. I think that was the case 
here, for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account and the loan agreement, NatWest 
also had the right of set off  meaning it was entitled to use any credit balance held in 
his current account with NatWest towards the repayment of amounts due under the loan agreement. So I dont think NatWest actually did anything wrong in removing the 
funds from Mr Hs account and using these to repay the first loan in the manner it did.
As I dont think NatWest was at fault for approving the loan in the first place or recalling 
it, it follows that I dont think it is responsible for any impact this had on Mr H or his 
business. So Im not intending to require the bank to compensate Mr H for any of the 
effects that these issues may have had. 
While I think NatWest was entitled to use the credit balance in the account to pay 
down the loan, I dont think it was wholly reasonable to take the account into an 
overdrawn position when doing so. As there werent sufficient funds in Mr Hs account 
to cover the £25,000 loan that needed to be repaid, the banks removal of this amount 
left a debit balance  on which interest was then charged. Instead, the bank couldve 
issued a demand for the relatively small amount left owing on the loan after the credit 
balance had been applied to it. 
To put this right, I think it is fair that NatWest writes off any interest that Mr H has 
incurred on the debit balance on the account  as it has agreed to do. This ensures 
that he wont have suffered any financial loss as a result of what I think the bank did 
wrong. 
Given the outstanding debit balance on the account, it was eventually defaulted and 
debt recovery agents were appointed by the bank. I appreciate that this will have been 
upsetting for Mr H. But even if NatWest had handled things as it shouldve done, there 
was always going to be an outstanding balance for him to pay one way or the other as 
there were insufficient funds in his account to fully repay the Bounce Back Loan. So I 
dont think his position was much different than it otherwise wouldve been in this 
respect.
NatWest did, though, make a further error when suggesting that Mr H make a second 
application. This seems to have been on the basis that the termination of the first loan 
was the result of an administrative error, which itself seems to have been a mistake. 
That error was then compounded by NatWests approval of the second loan 
application, when it ought reasonably to have declined this application given what it 
had found after its review of the previous one.
I dont think this caused Mr H any financial loss. The funds had remained suspended 
after they were drawn down and the transaction was reversed without any other 
charges or interest being applied. But it did put Mr H to some avoidable 
inconvenience  both in making the application itself, when it was doomed to fail, and 
then in following up on the matter when the funds werent released as he reasonably 
expected. 
Taking all of the above into account, I also think it would be fair for NatWest to pay 
Mr H £300 to compensate him for the inconvenience caused by the way it recovered 
the first loan and its instigation of the second application.
NatWest accepted my provisional decision. Mr H didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, and with no further information or evidence for me to take into account 
following my provisional decision, Ive not seen any reason to reach a different conclusion. 
So this final decision simply confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Write off the interest that the debit balance on Mr Hs account has incurred to the 
date of his acceptance of my final decision; and
Pay Mr H compensation of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman