DRN-3823557
The complaint
Miss K complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) carried 
out insufficient affordability checks before it gave her loans. Had it carried out better checks 
it ought to have discovered she was subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) 
and was a student at the time. 
 
What happened
Miss K was granted seven loans from Lending Stream between December 2017 and 
June 2022. A summary of her borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment 
per loan 
agreement
1 £300.00 09/12/2017 31/01/2018 6 £134.40
2 £200.00 21/02/2018 31/10/2019 6 £86.40
3 £50.00 25/02/2018 04/05/2018 6 £22.00
4 £230.00 07/03/2018 31/10/2019 6 £101.20
5 £50.00 10/05/2018 31/10/2019 6 £22.00
gap in lending
6 £500.00 08/07/2021 27/01/2022 6 £157.40
7 £300.00 05/06/2022 outstanding 6 £96.29
As of September 2022, Lending Stream has said an outstanding balance remains due for 
loan seven.
Lending Stream considered Miss Ks complaint and issued its final response letter (FRL) in 
August 2022. Lending Stream said looking at the information Miss K declared to it about her 
income and expenditure for loans 1  4 and loans 6 and 7 it concluded she had a sufficient 
amount of disposable income to afford the loan repayments. However, in relation to loan 5 it 
said:
 we have thought about the number of loans and the time between each loan 
being taken out. We can see that it might not have been a good idea for us to make 
these loans.
So, we are partially agreeing to your complaint.
Lending Stream then proposed to pay the following compensation  in total, it said Miss K 
was due a refund of £37.25 (after adding 8% simple interest and deducting tax) in relation to 
loan 5. However, as an outstanding balance remained due, this refund would be used to 
offset against it  leaving a new balance for Miss K to pay of £238.39. It also said it would 
remove loan 5 from her credit file. 
Miss K didnt accept the offer and instead referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. However, she made it clear that she only wished to complain about 
loans 1  6. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. The adjudicator didnt consider loan 7 as 
requested by Miss K. The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint because he 
considered Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks before it granted most of the 
loans. And the information contained within the income and expenditure as well as the credit 
search results showed it the loans were affordable. 
He also thought, it hadnt reached the stage for loans 1  4 where information needed to be 
verified or anything else that wouldve led Lending Stream to conclude these loans were 
unsustainable. 
But, due to the time in debt, the adjudicator did consider that by loan 5, further checks 
needed to have been carried out such as building a more detailed picture of Miss Ks 
finances. But as he didnt have any details of Miss Ks financial position at the time, for 
example, a copy of her bank statements, he couldnt say what further checks may have 
shown to Lending Stream. 
Lending Stream acknowledged the adjudicators assessment and explained it had nothing 
further to add. 
Miss K didnt agree with the outcome that was reached by the adjudicator about loans 1 - 6. 
In summary she said:
She cant provide copies of her bank accounts from the time the loans were 
approved as she no longer has the account in question. 
Miss K says the loans were provided irresponsibly. 
She was in an IVA and a credit check wouldve showed Lending Stream that. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
After the complaint was passed to me, I asked the adjudicator to check with Lending Stream 
whether the offer it had made in the FRL about loan 5 was still available to Miss K. 
Lending Stream confirmed it was still available, and Ive kept that in mind when thinking 
about the rest of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Miss K could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have taken into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ks income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss K. These factors 
include:
Miss K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss K.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss K could sustainably repay the loans 
 not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that 
Miss K was able to repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is 
the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ks complaint.
Loans 1  4
These were the first loans approved for Miss K, and at times a number of these overlapped. 
For example, at any one-time Miss K had three outstanding loans due to Lending Stream 
with the largest monthly repayment due of around £200. 
For all of these loans, Lending Stream carried out the same sort of checks. To begin with, it 
asked for information about Miss Ks income and expenditure. The summary spreadsheet 
provided by Lending Stream as well as the application data shows, Miss K told Lending 
Stream she received a monthly income of £1,000 for loans 1  3 and £1,200 for loan 4. 
Miss K has told us that at the time she was a student, but that was reflected in the 
information she gave to Lending Stream as part of her application, and it doesnt look like 
Lending Stream was aware of this. As this was the start of the lending relationship it was 
entirely reasonable for Lending Stream to have relied on the information Miss K provided as 
part of her employment. 
For loan 1 Miss K declared monthly outgoings of £502, £100 for loan 2, £175 for loan 3 and 
£125 for loan 4 respectively. There was more than sufficient disposable income for 
Lending Stream to believe that Miss K could afford the monthly repayments she was 
committed to making. I would add that Miss Ks monthly declared outgoings fluctuate quite a bit and its arguable, 
whether outgoings of £100 a month for example were reasonable. So, Miss Ks outgoings 
were more likely to be inline with what she declared for loan 1. But even if this was the case, 
then the loans wouldve looked affordable given her income remained similar. 
Or, it may have been that Lending Stream ought to have verified the information Miss K had 
provided about her outgoings. But, as Miss K isnt able to provide copies of her bank 
statement, then I can only conclude, using income and expenditure details, that these loans 
looked affordable. However, we have been sent a credit search Lending Stream carried out 
before approving the loans and it has provided a summary spreadsheet of the results. And I 
have reviewed those. 
It is worth saying here that although Lending Stream carried out a credit search with a 
particular credit reference agency, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely possible that the information 
Lending Stream received may not entirely reflect the information Miss K may be able to view 
in her credit report. There could be for a number of reasons for this, such as Lending Stream 
only asking for certain pieces of information or other credit companies not updating the credit 
file with up-to-date information.  
But what Lending Stream couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to 
the information it received  if necessary.  
Ive considered the summary of the results that it has provided. Having reviewed them, for 
each credit check Lending Stream was on notice that Miss K already had 9 active credit 
facilities  but it didnt know the details of what they were for example they couldve been 
bank accounts, loans, credit card and / or store cards. 
In addition, Lending Stream knew that Miss K had defaulted on six previous accounts  
which is a significant number. However, Lending Stream was on notice that the most recent 
of the defaults was added to her credit file nearly two years before loan 1 was granted. It 
was also the same amount of time since one of Miss Ks last credit accounts was marked as 
delinquent. 
Now, we know based on what Miss K has told us, that she went into an IVA in July 2015, so 
its likely the defaulted accounts were connected to that. Therefore, I think it was just about 
reasonable for Lending Stream to have approved these loans, because I think it wouldve 
been realistic for it to believe that any repayments problems Miss K had, were historic in 
nature, because there wasnt anything, as far as I can see that suggested she was having 
current financial difficulties. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was just about reasonable for 
Lending Stream to have relied on the information Miss K provided along with the credit 
check summary to show she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments she 
was committed to making. 
Finally, there also wasnt anything else in the information to suggest that Miss K was having 
financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for her. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss Ks complaint about loans 1  4. 
Loan 5 
For this loan, the adjudicator thought that Lending Stream needed to have carried out further 
checks before granting this loan. But Miss K has explained that she cant obtain her bank statements from around the time this loan was approved. However, I dont think that I need 
to find out or make a finding about what Lending Stream may have seen had it made better 
checks. 
Lending Stream has already conceded this loan ought not to have been advanced and it has 
made an offer of compensation to put things right. Lending Stream says the offer of 
compensation is still available to Miss K. The offer of compensation appears to be in line 
with what the Financial Ombudsman Service may have awarded had it been decided this 
loan shouldnt have been granted. 
For example, Lending Stream has refunded interest, fees and charges, and then it will use 
this refund to offset against the outstanding balance. This is the general approach the 
Financial Ombudsman Service takes in cases such as these, which leads me to conclude 
the offer is fair and reasonable. 
Miss K has also provided evidence that the IVA practitioner doesnt have any interest in any 
redress, so there is nothing further for either Lending Stream or the Financial Ombudsman to 
consider. 
As this is the case, then there is no need for me to consider the loan. 
Loan 6
Loan 6 was approved nearly two years after Miss K had settled loans 2, 4 and 5.  In my 
view, this break in lending is sufficient for Lending Stream to have in effect treated Miss K as 
a new customer. I say this because Miss K had shown that she didnt have need for such 
credit for a significant period of time. 
So, while, this was loan 6, in the overall lending relationship this could be treated as a first 
loan in a new chain. As a result, the type of level of checks that Id consider to be 
proportionate is impacted. 
Lending Stream carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it had done so for loans 
1 - 5. Miss K declared her income had increased to £1,850 per month. Miss K declared 
outgoings of £800, leaving enough disposable income to afford the largest repayment she 
was due to make of £157.40. Again, it wouldve been reasonable for Lending Stream to 
believe the loan was affordable. 
A credit check was also carried out but this time by a different credit reference agency and 
again, the results have been provided. The summary shows that Miss Ks situation appeared 
to have improved. 
While she now had 15 active credit accounts (which again, Lending Stream didnt know the 
nature of these facilities) it was aware that there had been no defaulted or delinquent 
accounts within the previous 36 months. This wouldve to Lending Stream been a sign that 
Miss K was in a position to manage and repay any credit facilities and she didnt appear to 
have had any recent repayment problems.  In my view, these results wouldnt have led 
Lending Stream to either decline the application or to have prompted it to have made better 
checks into Miss Ks financial circumstances. 
I also dont think, at this point, Lending Stream needed to verify the information provided to it 
by Miss K. This means, like loans 1  4, it wouldve been disproportionate to have requested 
or viewed Miss Ks bank statements. Lending Stream could reasonably rely on the 
information provided to it from Miss K which showed this loan was affordable. Im therefore concluding Lending Stream made a reasonable decision to provide this loan 
and I do no uphold Miss Ks complaint about it. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ks complaint about loans 1  4 and loan 6.
For the reasons Ive explained above, Lending Stream has already made an offer, to settle 
the complaint about loan 5, as outlined in the final response letter and I think this offer is fair 
in all of the circumstances of the complaint. 
So, Gain Credit LLC should pay this award to Miss K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman