DRN-2691054
The complaint
Mr H complains Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) cancelled his bicycle 
insurance policy without telling him. Hes also unhappy they told him he could make a claim 
after his bicycle was stolen before changing their mind.
What happened
Mr H contacted Assurant in September 2020 to make a claim on his policy after his bicycle 
was stolen, but he was told his cover had ended in November 2019. Assurant said this was 
due to a business decision to stop selling the type of policy hed held and withdraw all 
existing cover.
Assurant said theyd notified Mr H at the time, but he disagreed saying hed only been told 
when hed called to make the claim. He said because hed not been notified, the cancellation 
wasnt legal and therefore he should be able to make a claim.
After looking into things, Assurant didnt initially think they could evidence Mr H had been 
notified, so they agreed to reinstate his policy if he brought any missed premiums up to date. 
Mr H made a payment of £126 and a claim for his stolen bicycle was raised.
Assurant later said theyd got it wrong and Mr Hs claim was cancelled. Mr H was unhappy, 
so he raised a complaint. After investigating, Assurant said they were satisfied they could 
evidence Mr H had been notified of the cancellation so his policy could not be reinstated. 
Assurant did acknowledge theyd given Mr H false expectation by giving him incorrect 
information and initially allowing him to start a claim. They paid Mr H £100 by way of 
compensation and also refunded the £126 premiums hed paid.
Mr H was unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
things, but she didnt think Assurant had provided enough evidence to show a notification 
was sent to Mr H, so she felt they should consider his claim.
Assurant disagreed, providing further evidence they said showed notification had been sent. 
After considering the additional information provided our investigator agreed. She said shed 
seen a template of the email Assurant had sent its customers in 2019, and theyd confirmed 
the email address they held on file for Mr H. She also said as it was a business decision to 
stop offering the policy to all their customers in 2019, its more likely than not that a 
notification wouldve been sent to everyone.
Our investigator said she felt the £100 compensation paid was fair, but she no longer felt 
Assurant needed to consider the claim. Mr H didnt agree saying he was still yet to see any 
actual evidence he was sent an email. Mr H asked to be provided evidence the email was 
delivered to him including a delivery receipt. He asked for his internet service provider to be 
contacted should Assurant not be able to provide this.
Our investigator said Assurant needed to evidence a cancellation email was sent, and she 
was satisfied theyd been able to do this. But she didnt think Assurant needed to evidence 
the email had been received by Mr H so her opinion remained the same. As Mr H remained 
unhappy the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to tell Mr H I think its clear having had his bicycle stolen, hes been 
through a difficult time. I understand this will have caused him a great deal of upset, and 
theres a cost to replace it. I also know the impact of the situation would have been 
compounded by finding out hes not insured.
I understand Mr H says he didnt receive notification from Assurant that his policy was being 
withdrawn, and I dont doubt he was unaware when calling to make a claim that he wasnt 
covered. But its also important to say its not my role to determine if Assurants notification 
was correctly delivered, rather to decide if Im satisfied that a notification was sent, and that 
Assurant acted fairly and reasonably when doing so.
The terms of Mr Hs policy say Assurant may cancel it at any time upon giving him 30 days 
notice in writing. They say as all policy holding customers were affected by the cancellation, 
a mail merge was created containing the policies of those needing to be notified. Ive seen a 
screenshot of Assurants systems and Im satisfied Mr Hs policy was included.
Assurant have said those customers included within the mail merge were sent a notification 
of cancellation on 22 or 23 October 2019. Whilst specific emails have not been retained, Ive 
seen a template of the email which would have been sent, notifying customers the policy 
would be ending on 23 November 2019. Assurant have also confirmed the email address it 
holds for Mr H which the email wouldve been sent to, and Im satisfied it matches that of Mr 
Hs.
I understand Mr H says the email never reached him, but as I said, I cant say thats the 
responsibility of Assurant, and Im satisfied the notification was sent, to the correct email 
address, and gave 30 days notice of the policy coming to an end. 
In addition, Mr H stopped paying his policy premium in November 2019. Whilst I understand 
he didnt notice this due to the volume of payments leaving his account, it does further 
satisfy me that his policy ended that month.
Assurant led Mr H to believe theyd allow him to make a claim. This was an error which 
theyve acknowledged but one that no doubt caused him a great deal of distress when he 
realised that wasnt the case. That said, Assurant have paid Mr H £100 to compensate him 
and I think that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Assurant also refunded the backdated premiums of £126 which theyd asked Mr H to pay. I 
think this fairly puts him back in the position he wouldve been in had he not been given 
incorrect information, but I cant say they should consider his claim.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Assurant notified Mr H of their intention to cancel 
his policy and acted fairly and reasonably when not considering his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman