DRN-3445643
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lendwise Ltd refused to lend to him and has prevented him from 
applying again.
What happened
Mr A applied for a loan from Lendwise but it rejected his application. He asked for an 
explanation as he was unhappy with the decision. Later, he tried to apply again but found he 
was unable to do so. Mr A complained to Lendwise.
Lendwise looked into Mr As complaint. It said it had refused his application as it did not pass 
its lending criteria. It said Mr A was free to apply for a loan again if he wished, but its system 
only allowed one application from one email  the same email address couldnt be used for a 
second application.
Mr A was unhappy with Lendwises response, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into it. She said that Lendwise was free to decide its own 
lending criteria and it is its decision whether or not to approve an application. Our 
investigator explained that Lendwises system will only accept one application from one 
email address and that was the same for all customers not just Mr A. She didnt uphold 
Mr As complaint.
Lendwise accepted what our investigator said, but Mr A didnt. He said, in summary, he 
wasnt given sufficient information about why his application had been refused and that hed 
suffered a loss of opportunity as he couldnt apply again. As there was no agreement, Mr As 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook. Lenders must carry out checks on 
applications they receive to ensure they lend responsibly. There is no set list of checks they 
need to carry out, but they will often include an assessment of the borrowers financial 
circumstances including a review of their credit file. Each lender will have their own business 
model depending on their appetite for risk. The lender must be satisfied that the borrower 
can sustainably afford to repay any lending made.
Lendwise provides some fairly detailed information for potential borrowers on its website 
regarding the type of information it will check. After considering his application, Lendwise 
sent a standard response to Mr A explaining that it could not proceed with it. The response 
said there were several possible reasons for this. 
When Mr A challenged this decision, it explained one of its primary criteria is that applicants 
have a clean credit file, but it said he didnt meet that criterion. It provided him with details 
of the credit reference agency it had used when he asked. This criterion is included on the 
website information; it says that to be eligible, all potential borrowers must possess a clean 
credit record, so there should be no arrears, defaults, CCJs, etc..
Lendwise has provided Mr A with an explanation for its refusal to lend to him. It seems clear 
that anyone applying for a loan with Lendwise would be subject to similar checks, and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest Mr As application was handled any differently to any other. 
Mr A has tried to make a further application to Lendwise but says hes been prevented from 
doing so. Lendwise has explained that it uses email addresses as the unique identifier for 
applications it receives. Therefore, a customer or potential customer can only make one 
application from any given email address - and thats the same for everyone. Mr A says 
having to use a different email address makes him feel a loss of identity and asking him to 
change his email is basically asking [him] to change [his] identity. 
While there may be other ways of doing things, Lendwise has chosen to design its process 
and our service has no power to interfere with that. Its said Mr A is free to make a fresh 
application, but he must do so using a different email address. I note that to do so, Mr A 
wouldnt have to change his current email address, but if he wishes to reapply to Lendwise 
he will have to create a new one for that purpose. He wouldnt be obliged to use it for 
anything else. I appreciate Mr As strength of feeling on this matter, but Ive seen nothing to 
show that Mr A has been treated any differently from any other potential borrower, so I dont 
think hes been treated unfairly. 
For me to uphold a complaint, I must be satisfied that the respondent business has made a 
mistake or treated a customer or potential customer unfairly. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Lendwise has made a mistake or treated him unfairly, so I dont 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman