DRN-2687740
The complaint
Mr R complains about lost tax relief following incorrect information from St. Jamess Place 
Wealth Management plc (SJP). 
What happened
SJP advised Mr R in connection with taking money from his self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) to support his business. SJP didnt make Mr R aware that the way in which he took 
the money meant tax relief on future contributions to the SIPP would be limited.
SJP accepted the information it had given Mr R was wrong. But it said Mr R didnt have any 
other means of raising the money he needed to support his business. So it didnt consider he 
wouldve done anything different, even if it had given him information that was correct. SJP 
recognised that its actions had caused trouble and upset for Mr R, and offered £1,000 in 
compensation.
Mr R didnt accept SJPs offer and was unhappy with its response. He then referred the 
matter to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He concluded, on the 
balance of probabilities, that if Mr R had been properly informed about the tax implications of 
the SIPP withdrawal he wouldve raised the money he needed for his business elsewhere.
The investigator said that when Mr Rs business is eventually sold, SJP should compensate 
him for the tax relief he wouldve had on the contribution he couldve made to his SIPP, 
based on the annual allowances that have been lost.
SJP didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It said when it was discussing the 
injection of funds with Mr R, there was no suggestion that he couldve raised the money 
elsewhere. So it maintained that the outcome wouldve been the same, even if the tax relief 
implications of the SIPP withdrawal had been properly explained.
The matter was referred to me for a final decision, although Im aware that SJP asked for a 
provisional decision to be made before any final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Its not in dispute that the information SJP gave Mr R about the tax implications of his SIPP 
withdrawal was wrong. The issue I have to decide is what was likely to have happened if Mr 
R had been correctly informed.
SJP shouldve told Mr R that the SIPP withdrawal he was making meant tax relief on future 
contributions would be limited. I think this wouldve been important to Mr R. Hes provided 
evidence of correspondence between him and his SJP adviser, which explored using the 
eventual sale proceeds from his business to make SIPP contributions using full backdated 
pension allowances. This was part of Mr Rs overall pension planning.
I think that if Mr R had known his SIPP withdrawal would restrict tax relief on future 
contributions, he wouldve explored whether there were other options for raising the money 
his business needed. On balance I think its unlikely he wouldve proceeded with the 
withdrawal without, as a minimum, exploring whether additional funding may have been 
available through more traditional channels.
SJP has referred to phone call notes that suggested Mr R couldnt have raised the money 
elsewhere. It seems that phone call took place after SJPs error had been identified. Mr R 
disputes the accuracy of SJPs record of the phone call. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that alternative means of raising the money were 
discussed with Mr R when the SIPP withdrawal was being explored. That would make 
sense, because at that point the parties werent aware of the associated tax implications. 
But Mr R has provided evidence from his bank to show that a contribution from the SIPP 
wasnt a condition of getting further funding from the bank. On balance, I think that if Mr R 
had been given accurate information by SJP, he wouldve explored possible funding options 
with his bank. 
Mr R has also provided evidence from his sister to show that she couldve loaned him the 
money he needed at the time. Again, if hed had accurate information from SJP, on balance I 
think Mr R wouldve discussed the possibility of borrowing the money he needed with his 
sister. 
If Mr R had discussed the matter with his bank and/or his sister, on balance I consider it 
likely he wouldve raised the money he needed without having to make a withdrawal from the 
SIPP. So Im satisfied that SJP should compensate Mr R in line with the recommendation 
made by the investigator.
Mr R may want to make a withdrawal from the SIPP in the future, before his business is sold. 
If he does (and if the tax allowance had remained in place) then this would cause the loss of 
the tax allowance. Which means the redress Ive referred to below wont be payable if Mr R 
makes any future withdrawals from the SIPP before his business is sold.
Im satisfied that the parties have been given the opportunity to submit their information and 
arguments, and that the evidence provided is sufficient for me to make a final decision on 
this complaint. Im not persuaded that the provisional decision requested by SJP is required, 
because Im not minded to reach an outcome that is different to the investigators. 
Putting things right
When Mr R sells his business, SJP should work out how much he would have been able to 
pay into his SIPP using his annual allowances, if they were still available to him.
 
From this, SJP should be able to calculate how much tax relief would have been available to 
Mr R based on his tax status. Mr R will be able to pay annual contributions into his pension (currently £4,000 per year), 
and SJP can take this into consideration. SJP should then compensate Mr R for the tax relief 
he would have been able to claim had his allowances been available. 
SJP should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If SJP is unable to pay the compensation into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
SJP should also pay the £1,000 it offered to Mr R if it hasnt already done so, in recognition 
of the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct St. Jamess Place Wealth Management 
plc to pay compensation to Mr R in line with the instructions above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman