DRN-3793936
The complaint
Mr F complains on behalf of Miss F about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited 
(Hastings) administered the payments for her motor insurance policy.
What happened
For ease of reading, Ill refer to Miss F throughout. 
Miss F had a motor insurance policy arranged through Hastings covering her car. 
When Miss F took out her policy in July 2021, she was learning to drive and had a 
provisional driving licence. When she passed her test, she contacted Hastings and told it 
about the change to her licence. 
Hastings told Miss F that her premium had increased substantially, to around £245 per 
month. Miss F initially accepted this, but later asked Hastings if her premium could be 
reduced. Hastings said it couldnt change the premium as the underwriter of the policy set 
the price.
Miss F has now made a separate complaint against the underwriter of the policy about this 
increase in price, so I wont be commenting further about this here.
On 30 November, Miss F realised Hastings were quoting cheaper premiums online of 
around £130 per month and she contacted it to ask why. Hastings told her that prices can 
change on a daily basis, but Miss F felt she was being overcharged.
Hastings spoke to Miss F and offered to cancel her policy and transfer her to a new insurer 
at a lower monthly payment of around £172 per month. Hastings also said it would waive 
fees of £95 if she chose that option. It confirmed the details in an email and Miss F said she 
needed to think about it and would call back. Miss F emailed Hastings later that same day, to 
ask whether payment for this new policy would be in addition to her existing payment, but it 
was closed.
Because Miss F wasnt sure about her payments, she decided to cancel her direct debit.
Hastings were due to take a payment from her account on 2 December, and when this 
failed, Hastings said it would attempt payment on the 18 December. But instead, Hastings 
took the payment on 9 December from her debit card using its Continuous Payment 
Authority. 
When she noticed this payment, Miss F contacted Hastings. She was then told incorrectly 
shed have the money returned shortly. Hastings said itd made an error. It waived some 
charges and awarded Miss F £30 compensation. 
Miss Fs car remained on cover through Hastings until it cancelled the policy with effect from 
25 December. Miss F had a balance to pay of £208.29 and Hastings agreed to waive some 
charges, and award the £30 compensation to offset this payment. It asked Miss F to pay 
£108.29 in final settlement, or it would arrange for an external debt collection company to 
take payment.
Miss F wasnt happy with Hastings customer service and brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into Miss Fs complaint and upheld it. He said he didnt think 
Hastings had acted fairly and it should have followed up its revised quotation and transferred 
Miss F to the new, lower quotation. He also said it had made errors when Miss F tried to 
cancel her payments. He thought Hastings should pay Miss F £100 compensation. 
Hastings didnt agree with the view. It asked that Miss Fs complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
In this complaint, Ive followed the timeline of events from when Miss F complained to 
Hastings about its service. I can see that our investigator has sent two views out to both 
parties, and changed his opinion about upholding it during his investigation.
I can also see that the views dont deal fully with the issues being raised by Miss F. So I am 
issuing this as a provisional decision, which means that Im asking both Hastings and Miss F 
to comment on my findings, then Ill issue my final decision.
30 November
Miss F took her policy out through Hastings, which was for a full year of insurance. Around 
four months into her policy, having already been disturbed about a significant uplift in 
premium, she found that she was able to access much lower rates than she was already 
paying through Hastings. 
She discussed this with Hastings who said that the cheaper rates were for new customers 
and it couldnt apply them to her policy. But Hastings could cancel her policy and switch her 
onto another one, which would mean Miss F would be able to save about £70 per month. 
However, because she hadnt kept her existing policy for a full year, she wouldnt receive a 
full years No Claims Discount and would instead be starting again from zero with a new 
policy. 
Hastings representative told her she would need to take the policy out that day to get this 
rate and later sent her the information by email. Miss F said shed think about it. She then 
emailed Hastings late that evening asking further questions about her payments. Because 
Hastings had closed, she didnt get a reply and cancelled her direct debit shortly afterwards.
Ive thought about Miss Fs situation carefully and I can appreciate that it was approaching 
the festive season when finances are often restricted. Having been made the offer by 
Hastings of a cheaper product, it seems to me that Miss F wanted to consider it further. By 
doing so, she may have missed the opportunity to reduce her bills that month. I understand 
she was concerned about this.
Given her level of concern, Im unsure why she didnt call Hastings as soon as she could, or 
even the following morning, and speak to someone who could explain whether the previous 
quote was still valid, or if not, what it would mean in terms of payments to be made by her.
Hastings seems to have multiple different ways of getting in touch with it, but Miss F to email 
back to a person whod previously tried to help her. I think Miss F should have taken more 
care here. She has explained her worries about the payments that were due to be taken, 
and I think she should have spoken to Hastings as soon as possible to attempt to resolve the situation. 
I feel that I can say that Hastings should, perhaps, have called Miss F back to clarify the 
issues and to set up the policy. But given the urgency of Miss Fs position, I think she should 
have done more to make sure her finances were in order. I dont think I can reasonably say 
Hastings was at fault here.
The direct debit cancellation
Having cancelled her direct debit in an effort to stop payment being taken, Hastings then 
took payment from Miss Fs debit card. It did this under its Continuous Payment Authority 
which Miss F had agreed to as part of when shed set up her policy. Details of it were 
included in her Welcome Pack:
You've agreed to continuous payment authority (CPA)
This means you're giving us the right to take future payments from your credit or 
debit card. It's a great way for us to quickly collect any future payments without taking 
up your time. But don't worry, we'll always contact you beforehand to let you know 
when and why this is happening. And if you're not happy, you can contact us to 
cancel the agreement at any time.
When Hastings found the direct debit was cancelled, it notified it would take the payment 
from Miss F on 18 December, but actually did so on 9 December. Then I can see Hastings 
made a series of errors in promising Miss F that it would refund her, then not being able to 
do so. 
It seems to me that Miss Fs frustration at the time this happened was due to the wrong 
information she was being given. She was told by Hastings that her bank would refund it, 
then by her bank that this was incorrect and she needed to contact Hastings. 
I dont think that Hastings provided good service here. I know that Miss F cancelled her 
direct debit rather than speak to Hastings, but I think it should have been clear to Hastings 
that their customer was having some issues with payment. Thered been a complaint made, 
plus a conversation about moving Miss F to a different insurer, and Im unsure why Hastings 
didnt take action to try and resolve the situation at this time.
I have to balance that poor service against Miss Fs choice to cancel the direct debit, and 
then not speak to Hastings for several days until it tried to take the payment it was entitled 
to. 
Hastings later offered to waive its charges for missed payments, and added compensation of 
£30. It said it would deduct these charges, and the compensation, all rounded up to £100, 
from the money owed by Miss F. This would mean that Miss F has a final amount to pay of 
£108.29.
On balance, I can see that Miss F has found the experience very frustrating and upsetting 
but I think its fair and reasonable for Hastings to have waived its fees and offered Miss F 
£30 compensation for its mistakes. 
Critically, if Miss F needed to reduce her car premiums then I think she had the opportunity 
to talk to Hastings and make arrangements, so I dont think I can reasonably say Hastings 
was at fault.
Responses to my provisional decisionHastings agreed with my provisional decision. Miss F responded and explained about how 
busy shed been in her work and that shed been unable to get through to Hastings during 
her work break. Miss F also mentions Hastings poor response to her further query about its 
new offer of a different policy to replace her old one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Miss Fs position and I can understand the reasons why her finances were 
under pressure and her frustration because she wasnt able to easily contact Hastings to 
answer her questions and reduce her outgoings. 
But I think its fair to say that Miss F had the opportunity to deal with these issues earlier in 
the month, rather than trying to deal with it all very late in the day. As I say above, I cant 
reasonably say Hastings was at fault here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman