DRN-2016964
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs H holds with Aviva Life 
Services UK Limited. Mrs Hs complaint, made here by her son Mr MH, is that the lifetime 
mortgage was mis-sold.
What happened
Mrs H (along with her husband who sadly has since died) took out the lifetime mortgage with 
Aviva on advice from a third-party broker. They then took out a further advance in 2007, this 
time dealing directly with Aviva.
The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly repayments are required. The 
expectation is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last surviving borrower goes into 
full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those 
events have happened, but then an early repayment charge (ERC) is payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mr MH, on his mothers behalf, complained in 2019, that the amount shed need to repay if 
she sold her home now was excessively high. Our investigator didnt recommend it be 
upheld; Mr MH asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
We cant consider whether the original equity release sale was suitable or not as Aviva didnt 
sell the original mortgage. Our remit is limited to deciding two issues; these are:
whether the 2007 further advance was unsuitable and therefore mis-sold; and
whether its fair of Aviva to hold Mrs H to the terms of the contract when deciding how 
much shell need to repay if she wishes to end the mortgage now or in the near future.
As far as the sale of the further advance is concerned, the starting point here is the 
point-of-sale documentation from 2007. The value of such documents is that theyre 
contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the relevant time. 
Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be recorded 
incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a distance 
of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it.
The information-gathering exercise identified specific financial objectives; chief amongst 
these was that Mr and Mrs H wanted money to provide a gift to their son, Mr MH. They had 
only modest savings and their combined income only just exceeded their outgoings That 
suggests to me that some form of borrowing if that objective  and the other lower priority 
ones  were to be met.
So Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better option. Mr and Mrs H were both recorded as retired and on a retirement income so it 
shouldnt be assumed that they would have been accepted for a traditional mortgage, given 
their ages. 
This, combined with my earlier finding that some borrowing was necessary, meant that a 
further advance on the existing equity release (which required no monthly repayment) was 
probably the only viable option for Mr and Mrs H, given the circumstances recorded at the 
time. 
As to the lifetime mortgage itself, its normal for interest to roll up, and then to attract further 
interest on a compounding basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary terms in the 
point-of-sale material. A lifetime mortgage is by its nature a long-term product, and the point 
of sale documents record that Mr and Mrs H werent anticipating paying the mortgage off in 
the short-term. 
Its possible Mrs H has changed her mind since then. As I said earlier, the mortgage can be 
settled early, but Aviva may charge an ERC in accordance with the terms of the contract. 
The ERC wouldnt apply if Mrs H was selling to move into long-term care, of if the property 
was being sold by the executor of her estate after her death. In all the circumstances, I dont 
consider that Aviva has treating Mrs H unfairly in terms of how the debt has grown since 
2007; thats how equity release mortgages work.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman