DRN-3628890
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to pay, or provide timely 
information about, a special bonus due to be added to his pension savings in 2020.
What happened
Mr G holds pension savings with Aviva. Those savings arose from a pension policy he 
originally opened with another firm. But that firm was taken over by Aviva, so it is Aviva that 
is responsible for dealing with Mr Gs complaint. In this decision, for ease, I will simply refer 
to Aviva as the responsible business throughout.
Mr Gs pension savings are held in a with profits arrangement. In 2001 the original 
with profits fund was split into what was termed the old fund and the new fund. Customers 
invested in the original fund at the time who elected to give up their rights to any potential 
future share of the original funds inherited estate received a cash bonus instead and moved 
into the new fund. The remaining customers did not receive a cash bonus and moved into 
the old fund, which retained its share of the inherited estate. This inherited estate was to be 
distributed as a Special Scheme Bonus every five years if the old fund had sufficient 
surplus. Mr G became a member of the old fund.
It is clear that Mr G has some long-standing dissatisfaction with the operation of, and 
information provided on, the Special Scheme Bonus arrangement. And Mr G has also told us 
of his frustration at how his life and critical illness policies were taken over by Aviva, and how 
they have been subsequently administered. So it isnt surprising that he holds a degree of 
concern over any activities that Aviva undertakes.
But this complaint solely relates to what happened with the Special Scheme Bonus in 2020. 
I can see that Aviva, and this Service, has dealt with a number of other previous complaints 
from Mr G about the application of that bonus arrangement in earlier years. And, more 
recently, Mr G has asked for evidence that some compensation Aviva had offered him in 
2017 had been paid. But those arent matters to be decided here  my findings will only 
relate to the Special Scheme Bonus payment due in 2020, and the information Aviva 
provided about that payment.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He said that Aviva had 
published information explaining why it wasnt adding a Special Scheme Bonus in 2020, and 
that no further bonuses would become due since the old and new funds were being merged. 
But he didnt think that Aviva had provided that information  or at the very least signposted 
it to Mr G  in a timely manner. He thought that delay, given what had happened before, had 
caused great frustration to Mr G over a number of months. So he asked Aviva to pay Mr G 
the sum of £200 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Aviva accepted our investigators recommendations. And although he remained frustrated 
with Avivas actions Mr G didnt present any further evidence or arguments to the contrary. 
But he explained that he wasnt willing to accept the assessment until Aviva had provided 
satisfactory evidence that some earlier compensation had been paid. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process. If Mr G accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr G and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I have set out above a little of the background to how these Special Scheme Bonus 
payments have arisen. Mr G has previously explained his familiarity with how this scheme 
operates so I think there is little benefit in considering that history any further here.
The operation of any with profits arrangement is subject to strict controls from the industry 
regulators. The regulators are aware of the opaque nature of schemes of this type, and the 
understandable concerns that some consumers might have about whether they are being 
treated fairly. So a relatively stringent regulatory regime is in place requiring the appointment 
of a with-profits actuary with the regulator providing rules and guidance on their duties. An 
independent with-profits committee is also required  its remit is to protect the interests of 
the with-profits policyholders and to ensure that they are treated fairly. 
In November 2021 Aviva published a report provided by an independent actuary. The report 
had examined the operation of the old and new funds and confirmed that no Special Scheme 
Bonus had been declared in 2020 as the fund surplus didnt exceed the relevant threshold. 
And the report went onto conclude that it would be unlikely any future Special Scheme 
Bonuses would become due and so it was reasonable to complete the merger of the old and 
new funds.
So I am satisfied, based on the information that has been published, that it was reasonable 
for Aviva to not add a Special Scheme Bonus in 2020.
But Mr G has also complained about when that information was made available to him. And 
Aviva has accepted our investigators findings that its communications with Mr G were not 
detailed enough and not given in a timely manner to provide him with the level of explanation 
he required for his specific query. 
There is no doubt that the history of previous problems has made Mr G more sensitive to 
Avivas failings. And because of those problems, the delays here in providing the information 
to Mr G heightened his sense of wrongdoing. So, like our investigator, I think it appropriate 
that Aviva should pay some compensation to Mr G to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused by the delays. I think that the amount of £200 recommended by our investigator, and agreed by Aviva, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I appreciate that my decision will be, in part, disappointing for Mr G. There are a number of 
matters that he still considers to be outstanding. But, in relation to the complaint I need to 
decide here, I am satisfied that Aviva acted appropriately in not paying a final Special 
Scheme Bonus in 2020. But I do think that it could have explained that decision to Mr G in a 
timelier manner, and so avoided some of the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Putting things right
Aviva should pay Mr G the sum of £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused by the lack of detail and timeliness of its explanations about the decision to not pay a 
Special Scheme Bonus in 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Gs complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman