DRN-3895956
The complaint
Mr D complins about the amount of the settlement offered to him by Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) in respect of his claim for storm damage to his outbuilding. The 
claim was mostly dealt with by a claims validation service and as RSA is responsible for that 
service, I shall refer to RSA throughout.
What happened
On or about 19 February 2022 Mr D made a claim to RSA following his barn being severely 
damaged in a recent, named, storm.
RSA asked for a quotation for the cost of repair and on receipt of that as the repairs were 
more substantial than anticipated, it appointed a specialist to review the damage. That 
specialist provided a report and said that the barn had been in a poor state of repair. It made 
the decision to offer a settlement with a deduction for wear and tear. The deduction 
proposed to and accepted by Mr D was of one third of the overall cost, so RSA would pay 
two thirds of the cost of repair.
A settlement was reached between RSA and Mr D for the cost of damaged contents.
In light of the existing damage to the barn, RSA was not prepared to offer the services of its 
preferred suppliers. RSA assessed the cash settlement, based, it says, on market rates and 
not the rate its own suppliers would charge. Mr D, while accepting the one third deduction 
said that he couldnt get the barn repaired for anything like the total cost proposed by RSA. 
The specialists report noted that the barn was reached by an access road which would have 
to be repaired/upgraded to take the vehicles needed. Mr D has confirmed to us that this has 
been done, but it can only take smaller vehicles which would involve more trips to deliver 
materials etc thereby increasing the total cost of the work.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said initially that RSA 
should factor in those costs caused by the access road. RSA said Mr D was obliged to 
maintain the access road in good condition and it wasnt prepared to pay for those additional 
costs.
Following a further review, our Investigator also said that RSDA should pay a cash 
settlement based on the cost to Mr D i.e. two thirds of the amount of his lowest quote. Or it 
should appoint its own contractors to do the work, with Mr D paying one third of such cost.
RSA didnt agree. It reiterated that it would not appoint its own contractors to carry out the 
work. It pointed out the following:
The settlement was based on market rates.
It initially decided to deduct two thirds of the cost for wear and tear, but offered the one 
third deduction in error. It decided to stand by its offer. Mr D has therefore had the 
benefit of its mistake, over and above his entitlement under the policy.
The reason for the extra costs in using the access is because at its site visit it was full of 
deep potholes which could cause damage to motor vehicles. If it had been maintained in 
a reasonable condition, the extra costs claimed would not have been mentioned.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted a storm occurred and caused damage to the barn roof, 
I wont go into that point any further. I will just consider the settlement offered and whether 
that is fair and reasonable.
First of all, and I think RSA has accepted this, as it has offered a cash settlement and not 
offered the services of its preferred suppliers, then our approach is that any cash 
settlement cant be based on the rates it would have paid its preferred suppliers. RSA says it 
has based its settlement on market rates. But its clear that Mr D hasnt been able to find 
any contractor to do the job at those rates. Nor has RSA advised him of any such contractor.
In respect of a claim the policy says:
How we settle claims 
We will pay the cost of work carried out in repairing or replacing the damaged parts of the 
buildings
If the buildings have not been maintained in a good state of repair or if at the time of any loss 
or damage the sum insured is less than the full rebuilding cost we will pay the cost of repair 
or replacement less a deduction for wear and tear.
So the policy allows for a deduction for wear and tear, but it doesnt say RSA can pay 
whatever it assesses the cost to be. Its fair to accept that Mr D cant get the building 
repaired for the cost RSA has assessed so its fair and reasonable that it pay the cost to him 
of the repairs, being his lowest quote for such repairs, less the one third deduction for wear 
and tear. 
A two thirds deduction was briefly mentioned in the claim notes, but there is no indication 
this was a mistake  the actual deduction was one third and RSA appeared to be satisfied 
this was a fair offer. Mr D has accepted that offer and it wouldnt be fair to backtrack on that 
now.
As for the access road, Mr D has reiterated to our Investigator that any holes in the track 
have been repaired and vegetation removed. I think Mr D is genuine, he doesnt want to 
claim any more than he is entitled to.
So I think RSA should pay two thirds of Mr Ds lowest quote for repairing his barn, including 
where appropriate any additional cost of accessing the barn, but not costs of repairing the 
access road.
Putting things right
RSA should pay, by way of a cash settlement, two thirds of Mr Ds lowest quote for repairing 
his barn/outbuilding. This should include, where appropriate and subject to Mr D providing documentary evidence of, any additional costs due to accessing the said outbuilding, but not 
costs of repairing the access road.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to provide the 
remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman