DRN-2779324
The complaint
Mr D has complained about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a claim under 
his home emergency policy.
  
What happened
Mr D found water leaking through a ceiling in his home. So, he contacted IPA, who sent an 
engineer, via a contractor, the same day. The engineer said Trace and Access was required 
to find the leak. Mr D then contacted IPA to progress the claim. Both IPA and Mr D tried to 
follow up with the contractor. Mr D then told IPA the contractor had told him an engineer 
wasnt available because it was the weekend.
An engineer then visited Mr D on the Monday to carry out a repair. Two days later, Mr D 
contacted IPA again because he had found another leak. An engineer visited a short time 
later, but was concerned about getting access to the likely source of the leak. Two engineers 
then visited about a week later and carried out a repair, including to another leak they 
located during their visit.
Mr D complained to IPA. He said he had faced significant disruption due to having no water 
or electricity for several days, some of his family had to stay with relatives and Mr D and his 
father had to pay to stay in alternative accommodation, which he wanted IPA to refund. The 
claim had also taken about two weeks to deal with, which had caused him and his family 
distress and inconvenience. Mr D also had to take time off work to deal with the issues and 
had thrown away groceries due to not having electricity for a few days.
When IPA replied, it accepted it could have dealt with the claim better. It said there had been 
some delays in progressing the claim and that Mr D had incurred some costs. So, IPA 
refunded the cost of an electrician Mr D paid to visit to turn the electricity back on, paid £250 
towards the cost of alternative accommodation, which was the policy limit for this, refunded 
£132 for some work that was charged for and then not carried out and offered £350 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr D complained to this service. Our investigator said she thought there were some 
unnecessary delays, which resulted in the claim taking several more days than it should 
have. She thought that IPA had acted reasonably by refunding the cost of the electrician and 
paying the cost of alternative accommodation up to the policy limit. However, she said IPA 
should pay an additional £150 compensation, so £500 in total, as she thought this more fairly 
reflected the distress and inconvenience caused.
As Mr D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see there were delays in this claim that meant it took longer to deal 
with than it should have. As part of that, it was Mr D who identified that the contractor wasnt 
able to send an engineer because it was a weekend and he also arranged for an electrician 
to visit so that the electricity could be turned back on in his home. So, I can understand that 
Mr D was concerned about the progress of the claim and getting the leaks resolved under 
the policy.
When Mr D found a second leak, I can also understand that he was concerned this was the 
result of the first leak not being properly repaired. However, I havent seen any evidence to 
show this was the case. I think it was reasonable for IPA to deal with it as a new leak. This 
also meant Mr D was able to benefit from a new policy limit in order to fix that leak.
Mr D also spent £800 for accommodation for him and his father. Ive read the policy booklet 
and this explained that IPA would contribute up to £250 towards the cost of alternative 
accommodation. So, I think its reasonable that IPA offered £250 to Mr D.
Im aware that Mr D also wanted to be compensated for the time he took off work to deal 
with parts of the claim, as well as the distress and inconvenience caused to both him and his 
family by what happened. Mr D has provided evidence of his salary, as well as describing in 
detail the impact on him and his family and the need for him to be persistent in order to 
progress the claim. This service wouldnt normally award compensation based on 
someones pay, but instead would consider what happened and what would be appropriate 
redress in the circumstances. 
I can understand that this was a stressful and disruptive time for Mr D and his family. Having 
thought about what happened, I think £500 would be an appropriate amount of 
compensation, which includes the £350 IPA has already paid. I think this fairly reflects the 
impact of the delays, including the distress and inconvenience of having to move out of the 
house and the issues with getting the claim progressed and concluded.
  
Putting things right
IPA should pay Mr D £500 compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
which includes the £350 it previously offered.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr D £500 compensation in total, which includes the 
£350 it previously offered.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman