DRN-2804896
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) settlement of their travel 
insurance claim and about its service.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Q had travel insurance, insured by UKI, through a bank account. In 
January 2020 they booked a trip to a European country from 4 to 7 July 2020. They paid for 
themselves and their adult children and partners, six people in total.
The trip had to be cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs Q were refunded 
the flight costs by the airline and given a voucher for the car parking costs theyd paid.
Mr and Q claimed on the policy for the costs of the hotel accommodation and airport 
transfer, €1,780.
UKI accepted the claim but said the policy only covered costs specifically for Mr and Mrs Q 
as they hadnt bought the Guest Upgrade add-on to the policy. Also the hotel provider had 
given Mr and Mrs Q a voucher for €1,230. The voucher is valid until 31 December 2021 and 
UKI said the vouchers value needed to be deducted from the costs claimed.
UKI paid Mr and Mrs Q £55.11 in settlement of the claim. It calculated the settlement as 
follows: 
Original holiday cost €1,780  
Less hotel voucher of €1,230 
Means unrecovered holiday cost for six people was €550 
Cost for one person (€550 divided by six) was €91.66 
Multiply by two as two people covered under the policy totalled €183.32
Sterling conversion was £155.11 
Less excess of £100 
Settlement figure of £55.11.
Mr and Mrs Q complain that:
although the policy covers their specific costs only it would be fair for UKI to cover the 
costs for all six people as they paid the others costs
its unfair for UKI to deduct the value of the voucher from the claim as they say they 
wont be using the voucher so the voucher is worthless
alternatively if the voucher has to be deducted UKI should calculate the settlement 
differently. They said the voucher represented the cost of two of the three 
accommodation rooms and airport transfers so the holiday costs of €550 in the above 
calculation related to two, not six, people. Mr and Mrs Qs calculation would result in 
a settlement figure, once the excess had been deducted, of £397
UKI gave very poor service. They gave details, in summary they say UKI took too 
long to respond and Mr Q wasnt able to speak to a manager about the complaint as 
hed requested which should have been possible despite the impact of the pandemic 
on UKIs service times. 
Our investigator said UKIs settlement of the claim was fair and it gave reasonable service in 
the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Q disagree and want an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the relevant rules and industry guidelines which say that an insurer has 
a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably decline a
claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs Q but I dont uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say UKI wont pay for :
The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are 
travelling with someone who is not insured under this policy, we will only pay your 
portion of any costs even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
Only Mr and Mrs Q are insured by the policy. Their children would have been insured under 
the policy if they met the dependent children criteria defined in the policy, but Ive no 
evidence they met the criteria. Mr and Mrs Q hadnt bought the relevant add-on for their 
children and partners to be covered by the policy. So even though Mr and Mrs Q paid for the 
costs of six people UKI could fairly apply the policy term to the claim and just pay for 
two/sixths of the costs.
The policy also has a specific exclusion the UKI wont pay for any costs that you can 
recover from elsewhere. UKIs taken the €1,230 voucher from the hotel provider to be costs 
that have been recovered. 
Ive considered whether the terms of the voucher are so restrictive that it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs Q to accept it in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs Q have 
explained the change in family circumstances for their son and daughter but I dont think 
those circumstances prevent Mr and Mrs Q from using the voucher. 
At the time of making my decision one can travel to the relevant country and the voucher 
lasts for another five and half months so there is reasonable time to use the voucher. Mr Q 
says the flights are likely to be much more expensive than the previous planned trip. But 
even if so, I dont think that means the terms of the voucher are so restrictive it wouldnt be 
fair and reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs Q to accept it in the circumstances. Im satisfied UKI acted reasonably in taking the voucher to be costs that have been 
recovered, so under the policy terms it doesnt have to pay those costs.
I understand Mr and Mrs Qs point about UKIs calculation of the settlement. Mr Q agreed 
with the hotel to issue a cancellation notice and charge cancellation costs for one room and 
for the voucher to be for the remaining two rooms. Mr Q says that means the costs not 
covered by the voucher are for two people and UKI suggested the arrangement in a call. But 
I think the cancellation/voucher arrangement doesnt affect whats a fair calculation.
UKI reasonably understood Mr and Mrs Q unrecovered costs were the total costs they paid 
less the value of the voucher. And under the policy terms it only needed to pay two sixths of 
the unrecovered costs. So I think UKIs calculation of the settlement was reasonable. It 
doesnt need to make further payment to Mr and Mrs Q.
UKIs service could have been better but I think it was reasonable. It would have been more 
convenient for Mr and Mrs Q if UKIs letter sending the settlement cheque had included the 
settlement calculation. Mr Q had to speak to several UKI staff in making his complaint which 
took a long time, including over an hour on hold on the phone, But UKI was dealing with an 
unprecedented demand on its service due to Covid-19 so unfortunately there were some 
delays in its service. While it would have been good customer service for a manager at UKI 
to have spoken to Mr Q as he requested, UKI wasnt unreasonable in saying his complaint 
would be dealt with by it registering the complaint and returning to him, which it didnt need 
to do by phone. 
The rules under which we operate say when consumer complains a business has eight 
weeks to provide a final response before the complaint can be bought to us. So UKIs 
response to Mr and Mrs Qs complaint was in a reasonable timescale.
Overall theres no basis for me to say UKI should pay compensation to Mr and Mrs Q for 
their distress and inconvenience at its poor service.
Mr Q has commented on the service he received from the bank but he needs to complain to 
the bank on those matters and then make a separate complaint to us if he wishes to pursue 
those issues. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman