DRN-2313169
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy House-Building Council (NHBC) has declined a claim they made 
on their NHBC Buildmark warranty.
Mr T has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
Mr T bought a new home. It was covered by a ten-year NHBC warranty which began in 
2013. In 2019 he noticed a drainage inspection chamber lid wasnt sitting flat to the ground. 
When he looked inside the chamber, he found a problem and contacted NHBC.
NHBC declined the claim because it said there was no evidence of damage caused by a 
defect. Mr T complained but NHBCs position remained the same. He referred his complaint 
to this service and our investigator considered it. She said the policy only provided cover 
where there was both a defect and damage. She didnt think that was the case here and so it 
was fair for NHBC to decline Mr Ts claim.
Mr T disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think NHBC has acted fairly, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
Ill explain why.
There has been some confusion about the warranty and what it covers, so Ill start by 
clarifying that point.
The warranty began in 2013 and lasts for ten years. The wording of the warranty remains the 
same throughout this time. It covers certain areas of the property only. I agree with Mr T that 
it includes the below ground drainage system. But the warranty doesnt cover all problems 
that may arise there.
For claims made three years or more after the start of the warranty, which is what happened 
here, NHBC will pay the cost of putting right any physical damage which is caused by a 
defect. So the warranty doesnt cover a defect on its own  the defect must have led to 
physical damage in order for a claim to be accepted.
Mr T has made a claim because he thinks an inspection chamber, which gives access to the 
drainage system below it, hasnt been installed properly. I understand the chamber is made 
up of a number of pieces or rings, which should be connected to each other so that theyre 
held in place securely. But it appears that hasnt happened here and NHBC accepts some of 
the pieces are displaced from each other. Mr T says a similar problem may have occurred 
with other inspection chambers nearby.
NHBCs main reason for declining the claim is that this problem, even if it were a defect, 
hasnt caused physical damage. NHBC says that if this problem with the inspection chamber 
had caused physical damage, it would expect to see some sort of inconvenience within the 
drainage system  such as blockages or the drains failing to support the normal flow of water 
through them and backing up. It says no such problems have been reported.
In response to this point, Mr T has provided photos. They show the problem with the 
displaced pieces within the chamber. They also show the chamber lid doesnt sit level with 
the ground around it. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest the problem has led to any 
physical damage.
Part of Mr Ts complaint is that NHBC didnt examine the drain for itself. So its possible 
theres damage which hasnt been found yet. NHBC has the option to inspect a property and 
carry out more investigations if required. But that wont always be necessary and its not 
required to do this for every claim. If Mr T had reported the drainage system not functioning 
as usual, I may have expected NHBC to carry out a drainage survey. But that wasnt the 
case. Mr T spotted the problem due to the way the chamber lid was sitting, not because of 
the way the drainage system was functioning.
Without anything to suggest the drainage system had been impacted by the inspection 
chamber problem, Im satisfied it was fair for NHBC to consider the claim on the strength of 
the information Mr T provided.
I accept Mr T has identified a problem and resolving it will come at a cost to him. But for the 
reasons Ive given above Im satisfied NHBC has acted fairly when considering and declining 
his claim, based on the terms of the warranty.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman