DRN-1968012
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to meet only part of his 
claim for damage caused to his roof and home by high winds.
What happened
Mr W realised his roof was damaged after a storm, and that water was getting into his home.
He contacted UKI which said it would look at his claim. UKI sent a contractor to look at the 
damage. The contractor said the main cause of damage to the roof was wear and tear, and 
damage that had built up over time, rather than the storm.
UKI said as the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage it wouldnt pay for the roof 
repairs. But it did agree to meet the cost of internal repairs under the accidental damage 
part of Mr Ws policy.
Mr W complained, saying he believed the damage should be paid for  if not as storm 
damage then as accidental. He also said UKI hadnt asked about the state of his roof before 
he bought the policy, and theres no evidence to show the roof wasnt in a good condition 
before the storm. Furthermore he says theres a clause in his policy which says that if wear 
and tear is apparent then UKI might only pay part of a claim once an expert has established 
the amount of wear and tear. He says no expert has looked at the roof and UKI should pay 
for the roof repairs.
Our investigator thought UKI need do no more than it already has  which is to meet the 
claim for internal damage.
Mr W remains unhappy about this so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When claim for any sort of damage is made, its initially for a customer to show that whats 
caused an insured event or insured peril has occurred. These events are described in Mr 
Ws policy. There are two relevant events  storm damage and accidental damage.
I think its fair for UKI to look at the damage caused to Mr Ws roof as storm damage. 
Thats because there were storms leading up to the point Mr W discovered the damage 
inside his house. I dont think there are any other parts of Mr Ws policy that would cover the 
roof damage. I appreciate Mr W thinks the roof could have been damaged accidentally 
(generally thats by something sudden and unforeseen), but hes not provided any evidence 
of how that might have happened.
Once an insured event has been established, its for UKI to show that it can rely upon an 
exclusion (a reason to not meet the claim) if it isnt going to pay for the repairs. In this case, 
UKI commissioned a report on the damage. Its not unreasonable for UKI to rely on the 
report it receives from its contractor when deciding if it should meet a claim.
The contractor looked at the damage, and took some photos. He concluded the damage he 
saw wasnt typical storm damage, but instead general wear and tear. Ive seen those photos 
and the damage does look like wear and tear  theres some broken mortar for example, 
which does break down over time. I wouldnt expect a storm alone to remove mortar without 
also causing significantly more damage to the roof.
If Mr W disagrees with UKIs conclusions, then the onus is on him to provide evidence to 
show the damage was related to the storm. 
Mr W did send some photos but they show similar damage and a couple of broken tiles. The 
tiles are in the middle of the roof. It would be very unusual for only a few tiles to be damaged 
by a storm when they are in the middle of a roof  unless they were already fairly fragile. 
One of the contractors Mr W got a quote from says the storm also moved the lead flashing 
and let water in. This kind of damage isnt generally caused by a storm unless they were 
already deteriorating. It might be that the storm was the final straw and highlighted already 
existing damage.
I dont think Mr W has shown the damage was caused only by the storm. UKI says it will re-
assess its decision, if Mr W has more evidence, which is fair.
UKI says it will consider a claim for the internal damage under the accidental damage part 
of Mr Ws policy. Its done that because its considered fair to meet the cost of repairing 
damage that is the result of something thats built up unseen and eventually becomes 
evident  as may have happened here if the roof was deteriorating. It doesnt necessarily 
follow that the roof was also damaged accidentally  but as I mentioned above, UKI is 
prepared to revisit this if Mr W has some relevant evidence.
Mr W says no-one checked with him when he bought the policy that his roof was in good 
condition, so UKI should meet his claim. Normal practise in the insurance industry is that, 
when buying a policy, a customer completes a declaration about whether his property (which 
would include the roof) is in good condition or not. I cant be sure exactly how Mr W 
completed that declaration, although, as he doesnt seem to have had any problems getting 
cover, he likely said the property was in good condition. In addition I can see that one of the 
general terms and conditions in the policy is that he keeps his buildings in good condition. 
Its generally accepted that routine maintenance is needed on all properties over time, and 
the policy says it will not pay for this. Overall think Mr W knew he should maintain his roof  
as well as the rest of his property  in good condition, even if he doesnt recall a question 
about his roof at the time of sale.
Mr W also says that the policy he holds with UKI says that when its paying a claim it will 
deduct an amount from a settlement if a building isnt in good condition. He thinks that 
prevents UKI from saying it wont meet his claim (at least in part) even if the damage was 
caused by wear and tear. There is a paragraph that says this in how we settle claims. I 
dont think its particularly clear if the clause about wear and tear applies only to situations 
where no repairs are done or also where they are. But I dont think that means I cant reach a fair decision, as it is clear that this section of the policy would only apply to how UKI settles 
a claim, rather than how it decides if it should.
Overall I think UKI has dealt with this claim fairly, and Ill leave it with Mr W to decide if he 
wants to continue a claim for the internal damage.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman