DRN-4278477
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc have failed to refund money she lost as part of an 
investment scam.
What happened
Mrs M is represented in this complaint by a solicitor.,For simplicity, I will refer to Mrs M 
throughout this decision, even when referencing what her representatives have said on her 
behalf.
Mrs M was introduced to an automated cryptocurrency investment platform  which Ill call 
B - via an online advert which appeared to be promoted by a well-known TV Series. She 
was sold an online trading opportunity in which B promised her high returns. Mrs M carried 
out some research of her own and was satisfied that B was legitimate, so she agreed to 
invest.
B encouraged Mrs M to open accounts with third party cryptocurrency trading companies 
(which Ill call M and C) and guided her through this process via remote access software it 
had asked Mrs M to install. Mrs M was then encouraged to make an initial investment of 
£185, she made this payment from her Lloyds account to her account with M, and was able 
to see that the funds had been received safely. B went on to show Mrs M evidence that 
suggested her initial investment was doing well and was ultimately able to convince her to 
take out a loan for £5,000 to fund further investments.
The loan was paid into Mrs Ms Lloyds account on 15 February 2022, that same day she 
made a test payment of £5 to her account with C, a short while later she attempted to 
transfer the full £5,000 to C. This payment was flagged as suspicious by Lloyds, who called 
Mrs M to confirm if it was legitimate. Following a discussion with Mrs M, Lloyds made the 
payment for her.
When Mrs M was subsequently unable to contact B to discuss withdrawing her funds, she 
realised she had been the victim of a scam. She contacted Lloyds on 3 March 2022 to tell it 
what had happened, but ultimately, Lloyds told her it would not be able to refund the money 
she had lost.
Mrs M was unhappy with Lloyds response and so she referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, but did not feel that we could 
reasonably ask Lloyds to refund the payments Mrs M made. Mrs M maintains that if Lloyds 
had asked more searching questions when it spoke to her then it would have been able to 
uncover the scam, and so prevent much of her financial loss.
As no agreement could be reached, this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs M authorised the disputed payments she made to M and C, from 
where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. And the starting position 
is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made.
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent Mrs M from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character.
The initial two payments Mrs M made, for £185 and for £5 were relatively small amounts, 
and not out of character with Mrs Ms usual transaction history, so I dont consider that these 
payments should have been flagged as unusual by Lloyds. But it isnt in dispute that the 
£5,000 payment Mrs M made on 15 February 2022 was unusual given that it did trigger the 
banks fraud prevention systems and was automatically blocked pending further enquiry. 
Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances 
with that intervention.
After the payment flagged as unusual, Lloyds called Mrs M to discuss the payment. Ive 
listened to that call, Mrs M confirmed the account she was transferring funds to was her own 
account, Lloyds also read her a short statement about how risky cryptocurrency investments 
could be, and noted that the FCA had information on its website about cryptocurrency 
scams. Lloyds then asked the following questions of Mrs M:
- Has she had any contact from online cryptocurrency traders?
- Has she been told to make the payment by a third party or been told not to tell the 
bank why she was making the payment?
- Has she been contacted by a third party and asked to do anything on her computer 
or with her internet baking?
Mrs M answered no to all of these questions, so bearing in mind what we now know about 
what was going on, it appears she was not being entirely honest with Lloyds at this stage.
Mrs M has said that if Lloyds asked more searching questions, then the scam could have 
been uncovered. And I agree that the questions Lloyds asked were closed yes or no 
questions. But I also must bear in mind that Lloyds actions were being guided by the 
answers Mrs M was giving and her behaviours as a whole. I therefore dont think its 
unreasonable that Lloyds took her answers at face value given the lack of any other 
concerning evidence that might suggest she had been targeted by a scam  for example, 
there was nothing in the call to indicate that she was under pressure to the extent that Lloyds 
needed to treat her answers with some degree of scepticism.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds could have done more to recover the funds after Mrs 
M reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the bank 
raising an indemnity with the receiving bank. However, in these circumstances, Mrs M 
transferred money to her own accounts with C and M before the funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer. So while Lloyds had an obligation to notify C and M of what 
had happened, it wouldnt have the same obligations as the bank responsible for the eventual transfer to the scammers account. I also know, from experience of these kinds of 
cases, that scammers invariably will move the proceeds of their scams on very quickly, to 
avoid them being recalled. So any delay in a scam being reported, as there was here, 
means that the prospect of recovery is very slim. With all of this in mind, I dont consider that 
Lloyds could have done more to recover the money that Mrs M has lost.
Lloyds is also under no obligation to refund the money to Mrs M under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code does not apply to payments which 
the payer has effectively made to themselves (which would have been the case here given 
the payments were made to Mrs Ms accounts with C and M before being moved on to the 
scammer).
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs M, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Lloyds can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman