DRN-3487399
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has unfairly turned 
down a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In February 2019, Mr G, along with his wife, travelled to Tenerife and signed up to a number 
of services from two companies. He partly paid for these using a Nationwide credit card.1
Later in 2019, Mr G made a claim to Nationwide using the services of a professional 
representative (PR). It set out the background to the claim and said that Mr G was 
contacted by a company over the phone and invited on a discounted holiday to Tenerife. 
This was because he was a member of a holiday club that had become insolvent. When 
there he was told he had to attend a presentation or he would have to pay the full cost of the 
holiday. At the presentation he was told he would be able to recover everything paid to the 
insolvent holiday club, but he had to pay £7,500 for that service. He would also get use of a 
travel agency, as well as a number of other free holidays. The benefits discussed would be 
provided by two companies that I will call Business T and Business P.
PR said that the offer was fraudulent and Business T and Business P were linked to other 
businesses that had been exposed as improper on a television programme. In addition, Mr G 
did not get any of the timeshare compensation promised and he was entitled to make a 
claim under s.75 CCA. PR also said that Mr G had not used any of the accommodation 
rights he purchased as they were fake and the phone numbers given were disconnected, 
and in fact the accommodation was effectively free holidays offered to the general public so 
they could test accommodation at timeshare resorts.
Nationwide responded to the claim, but said it did not think it needed to pay anything to 
Mr G. It said the evidence suggested Mr G chose not to take the holidays purchased, rather 
than there being a breach of contract. It also said it tried the phone numbers given and they 
managed to get through to someone. Unhappy with Nationwides response, PR referred 
Mr Gs complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but did not think there was enough 
evidence that suggested Nationwide should have accepted the claim. She said it was not 
possible for her to determine what Mr G was told about the possibility of making a successful 
claim for compensation arising out of his holiday club. She said that there was not sufficient 
detail about Mr Gs memories of the sale to say what had happened. Our investigator 
accepted that Mr G bought some accommodation vouchers, but was unable to say that Mr G 
could not use the accommodation or other benefits bought.
PR responded to say that there was evidence to suggest that Business P had to change its 
name on a number of occasions, which was concerning behaviour. PR also said that other 
complaints brought to our service about this business had been upheld. As the parties did 
1 Although many of the services purchased were in the made of Mr and Mrs G, as the card was in 
Mr Gs name, only he is able to bring a complaint to our service. So I have referred to only Mr G 
throughout.
not accept our investigators view, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G made a claim to Nationwide under s.75 CCA and, when that claim was declined, 
referred a complaint to our service. So I have considered whether Nationwide should have 
looked at his claim differently. In summary, under s.75 CCA, in certain circumstances a 
lender can be jointly liable for a suppliers breach of contract or misrepresentation, where the 
lenders credit was used to pay for good or services. So here, Mr G is asking Nationwide to 
pay damages for breaches of contract or misrepresentations for which Business P or 
Business T are responsible.
Whether a lender such as Nationwide can be responsible turns on the legal relationships 
between the parties. That can be a complex issue and not one I need to consider here. That 
is because, even if I assume Nationwide could be legally responsible for the actions of 
Business P or Business T, I do not think there is enough evidence to show any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation.
I have considered the available documentary evidence alongside what Mr G said happened. 
Mr G entered into an Accommodation Contract with Business T, which provided four weeks 
of accommodation. The first week was taken whilst in Tenerife, and the next three weeks 
were said to have been paid for on the date of the contract. The total price was £3,000.
I have seen a number of documents on Business T headed paper that reference Mr G. 
There is a letter that says Mr G was entitled to five worldwide holidays, each one being 
seven nights of accommodation plus two return flights up to the value of £250. The holidays 
are described as a gift and an opportunity to sample popular worldwide destinations. There 
is also a letter that records that Mr G had booked two weeks of accommodation through 
Business T, had taken one week and there was one week remaining. It is also recorded that 
Business T registered £4,500 on Mr Gs behalf, but it is not clear what this means. Finally, 
it is recorded that Mr G was happy with the services received as part of a subscription.
There is also a letter from Business P that confirms a fourth week of holiday was booked, so 
no further weeks remained. Finally, there are several accommodation vouchers, showing the 
holidays booked.
I have seen a document on Business P headed paper that says Mr G gave permission for 
Business P to use his credit card for the registration amount of £4,500. There is also a form 
telling Mr G to make a bank transfer for a much larger amount, but it is not clear who that 
was to or for what service. I have seen that £4,471.73 was paid to Business P using Mr Gs 
Nationwide credit card.
Having considered everything, it is not clear what Mr G actually paid for. But from the 
documents I have seen, I think Mr G paid for some accommodation that was arranged or 
supplied by Business P and/or Business T. PR, on Mr Gs behalf, has not been able to say 
precisely what the terms of the agreement were, so it is difficult to say whether the 
accommodation has not been supplied and where there has been a breach of contract. 
However, I have not seen any evidence that Business P and/or Business T went out of 
business, became insolvent or were unable to offer the accommodation to Mr G. So based 
on what I have seen, I do not think there is evidence to suggest there was a breach of 
contract.PR argued misrepresentations were made to Mr G, which made him sign up to Business P 
and Business T. But the specific alleged misrepresentations have not been set out in any 
detail. In particular, it has not been said what Mr G was told about any potential claim he 
might have against his former holiday club. Nor has it been said what he was told about the 
accommodation or other services offered that turned out not to be true. So I do not have 
sufficient evidence to say any misrepresentations were made to Mr G.
PR has said that our service has upheld similar complaints. But I must decide this individual 
complaint based on the evidence provided. And, for the reasons explained, I simply do not 
have the evidence to say what, if anything, went wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman