DRN-2777602
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus (Cashplus) 
wont accept the medical evidence hes provided in order to be able to utilise the services it 
has for its customers who need additional support. 
What happened
In October 2020, Cashplus asked Mr B to complete a Debt and Mental Health Evidence 
Form (DMHEF). Mr B responded with a DMHEF completed in 2018 which wasnt stamped 
by his GP. Cashplus asked Mr B to obtain a new DMHEF or arrange to get the old one 
signed by his GP and wouldnt accept the one provided without the stamp of the surgery as it 
didnt meet the requirements of its process. 
Mr B was concerned about any associated costs this may incur for him. He invited Cashplus 
to contact his GP direct (providing details) in order to get a new form from them and also 
said that he was struggling to get an appointment with the community mental health team, 
for them to complete/sign it. 
In his communications, Mr B reiterated that he cannot use the telephone because of the 
anxiety it causes him and prefers email correspondence. Mr B told us that using the 
telephone can make him stressed and panicky and whilst he is able to use it, he needs to 
have notice of the conversation first. 
It was clearly noted on Mr Bs records that he was not to be telephoned because of the 
impact that this can have on his mental health and in particular, his anxiety levels. In October 
2020, one of Cashplus representatives called Mr B whilst he was at work which created 
extreme distress for him and led to him being unable to work until he was able to talk to 
someone and regain his composure. Cashplus accepts that it was aware from its own notes 
that it shouldnt have called and that the call was made in error. 
Our investigator believed that Cashplus didnt act fairly in insisting on receiving a stamp on 
the DMHEF especially in light of all the other available medical evidence which had been 
shared with it. She felt that Cashplus should award compensation to Mr B and engage 
positively with him in light of his mental health challenges. Cashplus disagreed. It said that it 
wasnt unreasonable to ask for the DMHEF to be stamped and that this is its usual process. 
It also said that it didnt offer email servicing of accounts unless there are reasons to do so 
and in Mr Bs case, its requirements hadnt been adequately met to allow us to comfortably 
offer this. It did however apologise for the calls it made to Mr B. 
Because it didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
The Equality Act 2010 says a person must not be treated less favourably because of a 
disability. We dont have the power to decide if the Equality Act 2010 has been breached. 
That is a matter for the courts. But Ive taken the Act into account when deciding whether 
Cashplus has acted fairly and reasonably  given that its relevant law.
Mr B was suffering from a recurring condition that had lasted more than 12 months. The 
condition was having a substantial adverse effect on his day to day life. Ive seen medical 
evidence that states Mr Bs long-standing conditions means that he can present with anxiety, 
suicidal ideation, severe depression and more. He especially needs help when 
communicating with people and finds phone calls intimidating and panic inducing. So, with 
the above in mind, Mr B appears to fit the definition of disabled as defined by the Equality 
Act 2010. Based on what Cashplus knew about Mr Bs condition before October 2020, I think 
it ought to have done more to engage with him positively and sympathetically about the debt 
he had with it and ensure that its communications with him took into account the adjustments 
he required so as not to trigger a mental health meltdown. 
Cashplus says that it needs the DMHEF stamped to evidence that it has been completed by 
the doctors surgery. It said that the form hasnt been stamped in line with its process. Our 
investigator asked Cashplus for a copy of its process and policy relating to dealing with 
consumers who require reasonable adjustments  but this was not received.   
Ive seen the DMHEF submitted and can see that its been completed, signed and dated  it 
just doesnt have the stamp of the surgery where the GP who completed it, works. This 
strikes me as something which if it absolutely needed to have, Cashplus could have 
corresponded with the surgery direct to authenticate in the event of any particular concerns. 
Moreover, Ive seen a letter from the same GP dated November 2020 confirming Mr Bs 
fragile mental health and the impact of his financial difficulties on this, exacerbated by the 
recent pandemic which forced him to stop running his business. And in addition, a letter from 
a consultant clinical psychologist confirming how Mr Bs mental health impacts him. Ive 
further seen letters from March and September 2020 where Mr Bs GP explains that 
unexpected calls and texts can make him feel suicidal again and inviting the reader (as it is 
addressed generically rather than to a specific person) to contact her direct should any 
further information or clarification be needed about Mr Bs health condition. Its apparent to 
me from the evidence Ive seen that Mr Bs mental health is extremely fragile and sadly, he 
has made attempts to take his own life because of the stress caused by his financial 
difficulties.
Ive seen a letter sent from Mr B in September 2020 to Cashplus enclosing the above 
medical information, explaining his mental health challenges, explaining that his business 
had collapsed and reiterating not to telephone him but to correspond via email. He also 
offers to make a nominal payment towards his debt with Cashplus. 
Cashplus has said to us that it doesnt usually service accounts via email but in the 
circumstances, it considers that Mr B would best be dealt with by its dedicated vulnerability 
team, who can support customers via email through a dedicated accessibility mailbox. 
However, it doesnt consider that it has sufficient documentation and evidence to justify that 
this is needed in Mr Bs case  but I disagree. Im satisfied from the medical evidence Ive 
seen that Mr B is highly vulnerable and there is a direct correlation between his financial 
difficulties and the impact on his mental health. Mr Bs GP has invited Cashplus to contact her direct should it have any further questions to ask, and if required, Id invite Cashplus to 
do this directly. 
Ive also seen from correspondence with this service that Mr B has a friend who supports 
him with advocacy and Id invite Cashplus to reach out to Mr B to find a way whereby they 
can communicate effectively with him about his debt  perhaps via his advocate - in a way 
which doesnt adversely impact his mental health. Further, the medical evidence confirms 
that unexpected calls can trigger Mr Bs anxiety so again, Id invite Cashplus to consider 
whether it can email Mr B ahead of a call or diarise a regular call with him, to discuss his 
debt with it. Im satisfied that all of these options would be a fair, reasonable and 
proportionate way forward for Mr Bs health difficulties to be taken into account in his 
dealings with Cashplus. Moreover, I consider these measures would go some way towards 
implementing the FCAs guidance on the treatment of vulnerable consumers. 
Putting things right
Cashplus should pay Mr B £250 for the trouble and upset caused to him in failing to make 
reasonable adjustments to how it communicates with him and for the impact it caused when 
it called him. Cashplus should engage with Mr B to attempt to arrange a payment plan which 
can work for both parties, making reasonable adjustments to the way it communicates with 
him and it should arrange for its accessibility team to handle this moving forwards. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus  and I therefore require 
the bank to:
Arrange for Mr Bs communications to be handled by Cashplus dedicated 
vulnerability team;
Pay Mr B £250 for distress and inconvenience caused to him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Reena Anand
Ombudsman