DRN-2734529
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a number of payments taken 
from her account which she says she didnt agree to.
What happened
Miss B used her credit card to pay for membership of an online dating website. She says she 
was only expecting to pay one months membership cost of £9.99, but six payments were 
taken from her account for a total of £163.06. Miss B complained to Barclays as she hadnt 
agreed to these payments and asked that they be refunded.
Barclays investigated but said Miss B had agreed to the websites terms and conditions 
when she entered her card details and had used the services on the website. So it didnt 
agree to refund the payments, although it did pay her £75 compensation for the poor 
customer service it had given her. Miss B wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she 
referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He felt Barclays had acted reasonably in 
not refunding the payments and that Barclays offer of £75 compensation was fair and 
reasonable. Miss B disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Barclays needs to refund the payments to Miss B. Ill explain 
why below.
A bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises it to make. And its not 
in dispute that Miss B gave the website her card details. I recognise she says that she didnt 
agree to the amounts or number of payments the website took from her account and that the 
websites charges werent made clear to her. But this is a dispute between Miss B and the 
website, and we wouldnt expect Barclays to know about this or take it into account when 
processing the payment. So the payments taken by the website were authorised.
As the payments were authorised, under the Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting 
position is that Miss B is liable for them. And I dont think there was anything about the 
payments which should have suggested to Barclays that she was at risk of financial harm. 
So I dont think it would be fair to say Barclays should have stopped the payments, and I 
think it acted reasonably in processing them.
Once it was aware Miss B was unhappy with the payments, wed expect Barclays to 
consider a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) and 
disputing the payment with a chargeback.
Section 75 allows customers who pay for goods and services using credit, to claim against 
the provider of the credit for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the provider of 
the goods or services.
But, in order for Section 75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be met. One of 
these is that the goods or services cost between £100 and £30,000. And here, the website 
has said the payments were each for individual services and the payments are each for less 
than £100. So a Section 75 claim cant be made.
A chargeback is a process by which a bank can dispute a payment made by one of its 
customers to a merchant. But the dispute must be made for one of the specific reasons set 
out in the chargeback scheme rules, such as goods being faulty or services not being 
received. And wed only expect a bank to carry out a chargeback where there was a 
reasonable chance of it being successful.
Here, the website has said the payments were for services Miss B did use. So while Miss B 
says she didnt agree to the amounts she paid, it cant really be argued that the website 
didnt provide the services Miss B paid for. And I dont think there are any other valid 
reasons for carrying out a chargeback here either. So I dont think there was a reasonable 
chance of a chargeback being successful and I think Barclays has acted reasonably in not 
carrying one out.
And so I dont think there was anything further Barclays could have done to dispute the 
payments.
Barclays has paid Miss B £75 as compensation for the delays in its response to her 
complaint, the confusion caused by one of its letters and the time Miss B spent on the phone 
with it as a result. And based on the evidence Ive seen, I think this offer is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience Miss B was caused.
Miss B has raised that other dating websites dont charge in the same way. And I 
sympathise with the position Miss B has found herself in. But I can only look at whether 
Barclays has acted reasonably. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think it has.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay Miss B £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman