DRN-3087692
The complaint
Mr S complaints that Santander UK Plc have refused to refund his money that he says 
he lost as part of a scam.
What happened
Mr S bought a car from a private seller in February 2020 from Facebook marketplace. The 
car was originally advertised for £5,000 but Mr S and the seller agreed a part exchange of 
his old vehicle on top of a further £4,000 payment. 
After collecting the car, Mr S discovered multiple faults when different warning lights 
appeared. He subsequently took it to a garage, where it was discovered that the vehicle had 
been designated as Category D write off in the past. Mr S got back in touch with the seller 
as this hadnt been disclosed, but he was unable to agree a refund and the seller has since 
blocked him. 
Mr S later raised a fraud claim with Santander as he submits they should refund the money 
he had spent under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code for authorised push 
payment (APP) scams. However, Santander refused to refund Mr Ss money as they didnt 
think it was a scam, but said it was a civil dispute between him and the seller.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Santander were not liable 
under the CRM code to refund the money Mr S paid or had spent on repairing the car, as it 
did appear to be a civil dispute between him and the seller of the vehicle. Mr S disagreed, so 
the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
At the time Mr S made the payment, Santander was signed up to the CRM Code which sets 
out how they should respond where their customer is a victim of an APP scam. However, the 
code doesnt cover all scenarios and it specifically excludes private civil disputes:
This code does not apply to  private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a 
legitimate supplier for goods, services or digital content but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So, in order to determine that Mr S was a victim of a scam here, I would need to be satisfied 
that the alleged scammer intended to deceive him and had no intention of providing the 
goods or performing their side of the agreement. But in this instance, Mr S bought a car, 
which he received and took ownership of in line with his agreement with the seller. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded that his transaction with the seller can be considered a scam in 
these circumstances. It certainly seems that the car Mr S received had a lot more defects 
than he was anticipating. But that does not mean he has been the victim of a scam, and this 
very scenario is mentioned in the CRM code as an example of a private civil dispute (i.e. 
such as where a customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goodsbutthey are defective 
in some way). So Im satisfied that the CRM code does not apply to Mr Ss transaction, 
meaning there is no obligation on Santander to offer a refund. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but I do not consider that Santander 
have done anything wrong by refusing to refund Mr Ss money under the CRM code. It 
follows that I will not be directing the bank to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman