DRN-4390806
The complaint
Miss Z complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund money she 
says she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
In summary: Miss Z says she was the victim of an investment scam in October 2021 and is 
unhappy that NatWest wont refund her the money she lost as a result. 
Miss Z raised a fraud claim with NatWest in October 2021, however they declined to refund 
her. So, Miss Z raised a complaint. As part of her complaint Miss Z also complained about 
NatWests decision to close her account.
NatWest considered Miss Zs complaint but didnt uphold it, saying:
They werent refunding the transactions she was disputing as they were made to a 
trading account in her name. And, as Miss Z received a credit from one of the 
accounts she paid, they believed the transactions were genuine.
The payments Miss Z was disputing werent unusual and werent flagged as 
suspicious.
NatWest apologised if Miss Z felt she had been mistreated by them.
Miss Z was given 14 days notice of their intention to close her account which was in 
line with the terms and conditions of her account.
Miss Z wasnt happy with NatWests response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
In Miss Zs initial complaint to our service, she raised the following points:
Shed made five payments as the result of a scam, for; £500, £2,398, £2,500, £1,200 
and £1,700. 
Her account had been blocked after she received a cheque which had been 
deposited into her account.
NatWest closed her account but didnt tell her why this was happening, and as a 
result of this she couldnt open any new bank accounts.
An investigator looked into Miss Zs complaint and didnt uphold it for the following reasons:
NatWest wasnt under an obligation to continue offering an account to her and had 
given her 14 days notice of their intention to close her account, which was in line 
with the terms and conditions of her account. 
NatWest hadnt negatively impacted her credit file, however they said another 
business had logged a marker which Miss Z would need to raise with the credit 
referencing agency.
There was no evidence that NatWest had discriminated against her in closing her 
account.
NatWest had acted reasonably in declining her fraud claim.
The investigator was contacted by a professional representative who responded on Miss Zs 
behalf in response to the investigators opinion. They told us that Miss Z wasnt complaining 
about the closure of her account, her complaint was in relation to the payments she made as 
a result of a scam  which the representative felt hadnt been fully assessed.
Ultimately, Miss Zs complaint was reallocated to an investigator who deals with complaints 
relating to fraud or scams.
Having reviewed Miss Zs complaint, they didnt uphold it. The investigator felt there was 
insufficient evidence that a scam had occurred, or that Miss Z had experienced a financial 
loss as the result of a scam. The investigator highlighted inconsistencies in the evidence and 
testimony that Miss Z has provided to our service.
Miss Z disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the information that Miss Z had given us, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator, and Ill explain why.
In Miss Zs complaint form, she told us that she made five payments as the result of a scam 
 these payments totalled just over £8,000. However, these payments dont match the 
transactions made on Miss Zs account. The professional representative, that made a later 
submission on Miss Zs behalf, said she was disputing 15 payments  totalling over £11,000.
Having reviewed Miss Zs statements, I can see that credits were received into her account 
before she made the payments she is disputing. The investigator asked Miss Z about these 
payments and was initially told that Miss Z had borrowed money from her brother. However, 
when further credits to the account were highlighted with different payment references,   
Miss Z told us that some of the money was from her brother and that other credits were from 
other family members. But there was no clear explanation for two credits received into her 
account, which had the same reference name as the investment company that Miss Z said 
she made the payments to as part of the scam. These payments totalled nearly £2,000 and 
were made in between the transactions that the representative said Miss Z was disputing. All 
of the 15 payments that Miss Z says were made as part of the scam, were funded by money 
paid into Miss Zs account immediately before the payments were made out.
Due to the inconsistencies in the testimony and evidence that Miss Z has given us, its 
difficult to understand exactly what happened and Im not satisfied that I can safely conclude 
that Miss Z was the victim of a scam.
 
However, even if I was satisfied that Miss Z was the victim of a scam, it wouldnt change the 
outcome in this case. I say this because Im not satisfied that the payments Miss Z made 
from her account were funded by her own money, so Im not satisfied that Miss Z 
experienced a financial loss. If the money was received from family members, then it wasnt 
Miss Zs money that was used to make the payments and I couldnt fairly ask NatWest to 
refund Miss Z.Having considered all of the information that I have available, Im not persuaded that I can 
fairly hold NatWest liable or require them to refund Miss Z any money that she says she lost.
For completeness, although Miss Zs representative has told us that she wasnt complaining 
about the closure of her account, I have considered those points of her original complaint.
From what Ive seen, NatWest gave Miss Z 14 days notice of their intention to close her 
account, which is in line with the terms and conditions of her account. On that basis, I cant 
fairly say that NatWest have acted unreasonably in deciding to end their banking 
arrangement with Miss Z.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman