DRN-4211046
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money she lost when she 
was the victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this case are well known to both Mrs B and Nationwide, so I wont go 
over them in detail here and will just provide a brief summary of some of the key events. 
Mrs B was looking to get some building work done at a property. She got quotes from a 
number of builders and decided to use what she thought was a building company with a 
good reputation locally. She says she was told the builder she was dealing with had taken 
over and rebranded the company, but it now appears they had previously worked for the 
company but now set up a new company of their own.
Mrs B signed a contract with this new company, the builder started the work, and Mrs B 
made a number of payments over the following year to several bank accounts the builder 
gave her. But around a year after the work had started, Mrs B noticed some of the materials 
that had been delivered were now missing and the building inspector then told her the work 
had not been done properly. When she asked about this, Mrs B says the builder started 
acting threateningly towards her and demanding more money. She then also found out the 
builder hadnt taken over the company she thought she was dealing with, but had set up a 
new one. And ultimately the work wasnt completed and Mrs B reported the payments she 
had made to Nationwide as a scam.
Nationwide investigated but said Mrs B had paid who she thought she was paying and it 
wasnt convinced the builder had intended to defraud her. So it didnt agree to refund the 
payments she had made. Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so referred a 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They said they felt this was a civil dispute 
between Mrs B and the builder, as they werent persuaded the builder had set out with the 
intention to scam her from the outset. So they didnt think Nationwide should have to refund 
the payments Mrs B had made. Mrs B disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Nationwide to refund the money 
Mrs B has lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Nationwide is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victim of certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers 
are only covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam. So in order to 
determine whether Nationwide should refund the money Mrs B lost, I need to consider 
whether her circumstances fit the definition of a scam from the CRM code.
Mrs B has made a number of arguments about things the builder did and how these fit the 
dictionary or legal definition of a scam. But I must consider whether the circumstances fit the 
definition of a scam as set out in the CRM code, not any other definition, as this code is 
where Nationwides obligation to refund the money she has lost would come from. 
Mrs B says she was misled into using this builder. She says she wanted to use a specific 
company with a good reputation locally and this builder told her they had taken over and 
rebranded the company she intended to use. But it now appears they had instead set up 
their own company using a similar name. Mrs B says she wouldnt have used this builder if 
shed known they were not connected to the company she intended to use.
I appreciate that Mrs B was misled about the builders connection to the company she 
intended to use, but I dont think this fits the definition of a scam from the CRM code. The 
code says a scam will include where the customer intended to transfer funds to another 
person, but was instead deceived into transferring the funds to a different person. But Mrs B 
had met and spoken with the builder a number of times and did intend for the money to go to 
them  albeit because of their connection to the other company. And the money went to the 
correct account details the builder gave her. So I dont think this fits the definition of a scam 
from the CRM code.
Mrs B has also said the work the builder did was of poor quality, and she thinks they only 
completed the work they did in order to get more money from her and that they never 
intended to complete the work they agreed.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received 
them, they are defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the 
supplier.
The builder did start work on the property, and appears to have been working there for some 
time. The builder also appears to have done a significant amount of work at the property as, 
from the reports Mrs B has sent us from other builders or engineers, the work done was 
valued at between £90,000 - £100,000 even after any necessary remedial work was taken 
into account. But Id usually expect a scammer to do as little work as possible in order to get 
the maximum profit in the shortest period of time. So the builder did more work than Id 
expect from a scammer who never intended to complete the work.
The banks the payments were sent to have also told us that they havent had any other 
scam reports made against the builders accounts. And there were no concerns about the 
activity on the accounts or blocks placed on the accounts. But scammers usually target a 
number of people at once, in order to make as much money as possible before the scam is 
uncovered. So Id expect to see other scam reports to the builders bank around the same 
time if they were operating a scam. And from what Ive seen of the activity on the accounts, 
they appear to have been run as I would expect legitimate accounts to have been.Where the evidence available is incomplete or inconclusive, I must make a decision on what 
I think is most likely to have happened. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its 
more likely the builder here was attempting to operate as a legitimate business at the time 
and that other factors ultimately meant the building work wasnt completed.
Mrs B has provided significant evidence that the work the builder did was of poor quality and 
significant remedial work is now necessary before the intended work can be completed. But I 
think this suggests the builder didnt have the capability to do the intended work to the 
standard Mrs B expected, rather than that they never intended to complete the work. So I 
think this is a civil dispute between her and the builder about the quality of the work she 
received, which isnt covered by the CRM code.
Mrs B has also mentioned issues about the delivery and return of materials, the builder 
continuing to use the name of a company that had been dissolved, and threatening and 
bullying behaviour by the builder. But while these may suggest the builder wasnt acting as 
you might hope a respectable builder would act, I dont think they fit the definition of a scam 
from the CRM code.
I appreciate how Mrs B feels about this case, and that the property was left unfinished and 
she now has to arrange other builders and pay significant extra sums to finish the intended 
work. I sympathise with the position she has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she 
did anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the builder.
But I cant look at whether the builder has acted correctly or at any action she could take 
against them. I can only look at whether Nationwide should be held responsible. And, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think what has happened fits the definition of a scam 
as set out in the CRM code or that it would be fair to hold Nationwide responsible for the 
money shes lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman