DRN-2529546
The complaint
Ms C complains that Nationwide Building Society, (Nationwide) mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
 What happened
Ms C purchased the MPPI in 2008. After the first three months, when the policy was free, 
the initial monthly premiums were about £12. Following a successful claim, the policy 
would have paid Ms C £300 a month for up to 24 months had she been unable to work 
because of accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator recommended that Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. But as Nationwide 
disagreed with this view, the complaint was passed to me to decide. Overall I agreed with 
our adjudicator. But, as I wanted to explain aspects of the complaint and reasons for my 
decision in more detail, I found that it was fair and reasonable for Ms C and Nationwide to 
have an opportunity to comment on my reasoning, or supply further information, before I 
issued any final decision. So on 20 November 2020 I issued a provisional decision.
Ms C didnt comment on my provisional decision. But Nationwide disagreed with it. It made 
several points about aspects of my provisional decision. I only refer to those I consider 
affect my decision, in the next section, but Ive nonetheless considered all of them carefully 
before reaching this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Cs complaint. I explain why below.
Ms C had a medical condition at the time of sale, (the condition). She says that this was 
treated and managed with on-going medication and hospital visits.
In response to my provisional decision, (the response), Nationwide said that historically 
this service had accepted that its policies from 1999 onwards excluded pre-existing 
medical conditions for the first 12 months only and thereafter the policy holder is covered 
for such a condition. It may be that this service has reached this conclusion in relation to 
the terms and conditions of certain of Nationwides mortgage protection policies. But I 
must reach my decision on this complaint based solely on its own facts. And in particular 
the terms and conditions that applied to Ms C. 
In the response, Nationwide stated in several places that the policy would have covered 
Ms C for the condition after the first 12 months. But I am not clear that it would have 
covered her had she been off work due to or arising from the condition - whether either at 
any time while the policy was in place or restricted to a period commencing 12 months 
after the cover started. As I explained in my provisional decision, I say this because:
Firstly, the policy defines a pre-existing medical condition as:
Any condition, injury, illness, disease or related condition and/or associated 
symptoms, whether diagnosed or not:
Which [the insured] knew about, or should reasonably have known about, at [the date 
on which the insurance starts, (the start date)] or
Which [the insured] had seen or arranged to see a doctor about, during the 12 
months immediately before the start date
Secondly, the policy goes on to say:
We will not pay any accident or sickness claims due to or arising from; Any pre-existing 
medical condition which persists or returns during the first 12 months of accident or 
sickness cover. This exclusion will not apply once you have been continuously insured for 
accident or sickness cover for 12 months, so long as you are attending work at the start of 
your claim. (A)
The above exclusion for 12 months is, in itself, a significant exclusion.
However, immediately below the above wording, the terms and conditions of the policy go 
on to say:
This means we will not pay for any condition, injury, illness, disease, sickness or related 
condition and/or associated symptoms, whether diagnosed or not: - which you knew 
about, or should reasonably have known about, at the start date, or - which you had 
seen or arranged to see a doctor about, during the 12 months immediately before the 
start date. (B)
I find that this wording is inconsistent with the wording in A, insofar as here the exclusion 
relates to anything due or arising from a pre-existing medical condition at any time, 
whether or not it has persisted or returned during the first 12 months of the policy. And 
also because the exclusion is not expressed to fall away in certain circumstances after 
the first 12 months of the policy
Thirdly, in an earlier section of the policy headed: Important Notes the policy says:
This policy does not cover a medical condition or related symptoms [the insured] 
knew about at the start date whether the condition had been diagnosed or not
I find this is also inconsistent with A and B.
Fourthly, I find that matters are further confused because of the wording contained in 
a leaflet about the MPPI, which I think it is likely Ms C would have seen. This says 
that the following will not be covered:
Any period of accident or sickness arising directly from a medical condition, and/or 
associated symptoms, whether diagnosed or not which: (i) [the prospective insured] 
was aware of at the date of signing the application for cover (ii) [the prospective 
insured] has suffered from in the 12 months immediately before cover commenced.I find that it is not clear whether both (i) and (ii) must apply or whether they are alternatives.
I further note that there is no mention of any restrictions at all in the MPPI illustration 
provide to Ms C.
I find that this lack of clarity over the pre-existing medical condition exclusion could 
have been used to Ms Cs disadvantage had she tried to make a claim.
Overall, Im satisfied that the policy was not intended to cover Ms C for all sickness 
claims, which, had she not looked at the documentation, she would have expected it to 
cover. So, even if Nationwide didnt advise Ms C to take the MPPI, it ought to have drawn 
that to her attention. I cant see that Nationwide did this in a consistent manner which 
would reasonably have made it clear to her what would, and wouldnt, have been covered.
Nor do I find that the references to the sickness exclusions in the documents, to which 
Ive referred, were sufficiently prominent. In particular, the leaflet to which Ive referred 
above, consists of some nine pages. The restrictions on being able to make a claim for 
accident and sickness were on about the sixth page. And there was no warning or 
highlighting of them anywhere in the leaflet. I dont consider that having: Whats Not 
Covered in the list of contents on the first page, nor the way the section that it referred to 
is set out, makes this sufficiently prominent. And I havent seen anything to suggest that 
the exclusions in the policy were highlighted to Ms C by some other means, such as 
during a phone call. In the response Nationwide has told us that its representative would 
have informed Ms C of the exclusions. Because of the time that has passed Ive seen no 
record of this. And in any event, in view of the inconsistences in the terms and conditions 
to which Ive already referred, I dont find that I can fairly and reasonably conclude just 
what Ms C might have been told about exclusions in relation to the condition.
Because of the nature of the condition, had Nationwide properly drawn Ms Cs attention 
to the provisions, on balance, I dont think, that she would have taken the policy.
This means that I find that Ms C has lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong 
and that it needs to put things right.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said about Ms C being likely to have needed to claim 
on the policy during the first 12 months of cover. It says that it hasnt seen anything to 
suggest that this would be the case. - whilst she might have been taking medication, and 
under medical review, she had told them that she had not had any time off work due to the 
condition. Im not persuaded that the fact that she hadnt in fact had to take time off work 
would have led Ms C to conclude that she would therefore be unlikely to need the policy 
during the first 12 months. In any event, as Ive explained above, it isnt clear to me that 
she would definitely have been able to claim successfully for anything arising from the 
complaint, even at a later time.
Nationwide also asked this service to appreciate that within the first 12 months of cover, 
Ms C was in fact covered for all accident and sickness claims unrelated to 
the complaint  subject to the policy terms and conditions. But given the nature of the 
condition, on balance, I think it is unlikely that she would have wanted to take out 
insurance that restricted her ability to claim for matters arising from it - even for an initial 
12-month period.Nationwide has said that the leaflet, to which Ive referred under my point denoted 
Fourthly and elsewhere, consisted of fewer pages than I stated in my provisional 
decision. I would explain that I dont have an actual leaflet to which to refer, just a black 
and white photocopy consisting of 12 pages. It seems that, because of their content, I 
may have identified some parts of the cover as part of the contents of the leaflet. 
However this doesnt affect my decision.
Further, Nationwide, in the response, highlighted the fact that Ms C had initially declined 
to take out the policy when she first applied for the mortgage at the end of 2007. And 
subsequently seems to have changed her mind. It also highlighted that Ms C tailored her 
policy, insofar as she declined to include unemployment cover. I agree with Nationwide 
that this indicates that she had considered her options. But I dont find that this makes it 
any more certain that she had been given clear and consistent information about the 
exclusions in the cover at any time. So this also doesnt affect my decision.
Putting things right
Nationwide must put Ms C into the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the 
MPPI. It should:
Pay Ms C the amount she paid each month for the MPPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year .
Im aware that Nationwide gave Ms C some redress in respect of the premiums she paid 
after she was no longer able to make a claim because she had stopped working. 
Nationwide can take off what it has already paid her from the amounts Ive set out above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is to uphold Ms Cs complaint. And I order 
Nationwide Building Society to pay Ms C compensation in line with the approach set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman