DRN-2246612
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank failed to input the 
correct details of a bank she wished to send money to, which meant the transaction failed 
and she lost money.
What happened
Mrs M went to a Danske Bank branch to transfer money to an account in Argentina. She 
says she gave the correct details of the bank and account to staff, but the transaction failed, 
and she received about £230 less than she had tried to send. Mrs M says she asked for help 
and relied on the staff to make sure the details were correct and says Danske Bank made 
the mistake. She says she was able to make the transfer herself a short time later and would 
like compensation for the loss and distress she was caused at what was a difficult time.
Danske Bank says its not made a mistake and inputted the information Mrs M gave it. It 
says when Mrs M made the successful transfer, she used a different Bank Identifier Code 
(BIC) and Mrs M signed the transfer form.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought Mrs M signed the transfer form and provided the information and Danske Bank 
wasnt responsible for the incorrect information.
Mrs M doesnt accept that view and says the transfer form was incorrectly completed by 
Danske Bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Danske Bank hasnt made a mistake or 
acted unfairly. I realise Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at the information Mrs M gave Danske Bank and compared it to the 
successful transaction that Mrs M was able to make. I can see that the difference between 
the two, is a completely different BIC was used on each transfer. I dont think Danske Bank 
staff made a mistake when inputting the BIC details as they are completely different to the 
BIC details used on the successful transaction. 
So, the key question is where did the BIC details that Danske Bank used come from? I have 
checked the BIC and I can see that it matches the bank that Mrs M has provided details of in 
the original transfer form that she describes as the US Correspondence bank. So, I think it 
likely that either Mrs M made a mistake by providing the wrong BIC or that she was given 
incorrect details by those she intended to make the payment to. In either case I cant fairly 
hold Danske Bank responsible for the mistake and I think it completed the form and made 
the transfer based on the information it was given by Mrs M. I also think Mrs M has signed 
those transfer instructions, but I appreciate they are likely to have matched, what is now 
known to be, the incorrect information.
Overall, Im satisfied Danske Bank hasnt made a mistake and I wouldnt have expected it to 
have known what the correct BIC was. So, I cant fairly order it to refund the exchange rate 
loss or pay any compensation to Mrs M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman