DRN-4389167
The complaint
Miss W complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly considered her at fault for a motor 
insurance claim.
AXAs been represented by agents during the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive 
referred to the actions of the agents as being those of AXA.
What happened
In April 2023 Miss Ws parked car was hit by a third-party (TP) vehicle. The TP driver 
accepted liability. 
In June 2023 Miss W received policy renewal documents from her insurer  AXA. She was 
unhappy that the premium had increased from around £880 to about £1,200. She didnt 
accept the renewal.
Miss W feels AXA unfairly increased the premium following the April 2023 collision despite 
her not being at fault. She says its unfair that she is being considered as at fault when the 
TP accepted responsibility. And she complains AXA unreasonably took away her No Claims 
Discount (NCD).  
Our Investigator didnt agree AXA had treated Miss W unfairly. So she didnt recommend it 
do anything differently. The Investigator said the claim has been recorded in line with 
standard industry practice. She said premiums might be higher due to an open claim being 
recorded as fault. She said Miss Ws NCD hadnt been reduced. Miss W wasnt satisfied 
with that outcome. So the complaint was passed to me, as an Ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as Ive seen it doesnt seem to be disputed that the TP was at fault. However, it can 
take time for claims to be formally settled by the different insurers involved. Until that 
happens its standard practice for records to show each policyholder as being at fault. 
That fault record doesnt necessarily mean the individual was to blame for the incident. 
Instead it can mean their insurer hasnt yet recovered their costs from the other party 
involved. And it doesnt necessarily mean the claim will be recorded as the policyholder 
being at fault when its eventually settled. 
It does seem Miss Ws unlikely to be considered, once the claim is settled, as liable for the 
incident. I can understand why shes frustrated by the open claim record having an impact 
on her. But if AXA has recorded her, whilst the claim is open, as at fault it doesnt mean its 
done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. 
Miss Ws said AXAs taken away her NCD. She had eight years at the start of her June 2022 
policy. Her AXA renewal documents for June 2023 also show eight years. So she wasnt 
awarded an additional year for June 2022 to June 2023  the policy year of the incident.
Miss Ws AXA policy terms explain how her NCD entitlement works. It says her entitlement 
wont increase if she makes a claim where the insurers been unable to reclaim costs from a 
third-party. 
AXAs explained that as she has protected NCD Miss W didnt lose any years of entitlement 
 but she wont gain an additional one (for 2022 to 2023) until the claim is closed with her 
recorded as non-fault (ie AXA having recovered its costs from the TP insurer). So AXA is 
acting in line with the policy terms. It seems that in the likely event the claim does settle with 
Miss W as non-fault the extra year will be applied. 
It may also help to explain that having an NCD doesnt mean insurers, when calculating 
premiums, cant consider claims  fault or non-fault. NCD is instead the basis for a discount. 
Its often applied after the insurer has accounted for claims history. In addition many insurers 
still take into account non-fault claims when calculating premiums. Sometimes they consider 
a history of a non-fault claim increases the risk of being involved in a future claim. 
I can understand why Miss Ws frustrated by the situation. It seems accepted that she wasnt 
at fault. Yet theres still an impact on her. But that doesnt mean AXAs done anything wrong 
or treated her unfairly. And once the claim is settled she can contact AXA about her NCD 
entitlement. She can also update her current insurer and request it recalculates her premium 
on the basis of the claim being closed and her not being at fault.   
Overall I cant say AXAs treated Miss W unreasonable or caused her to be offered or 
charged an unfair premium for her insurance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman