DRN-1210195
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc did not agree to its 
request for an overdraft facility.
What happened
S applied for a £15,000 facility in July 2019. The director representing it in this complaint 
explains that S had taken over a business from a former owner. And that S did not intend to 
use the facility but needed it to obtain an operators licence. S had taken a start up loan from 
a different financial business. NatWest declined the overdraft request and when S appealed 
it became clearer that the concern was the financial standing of the former owner who was 
married to one of the directors.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that NatWest had 
stated on the credit application signed by the directors that it would be considering any 
financial connections you have with third parties and that application decisions may be 
taken based on solely automated checks of information from credit reference agencies and 
internal [] records. NatWest had referred to the results of its credit searches in its decision 
to decline the application. And it had given S guidance about how to correct this information 
if it was wrong and set out the ability to appeal. NatWest also referred to other potential 
sources of finance.
S did not agree. The director said that the financial connection referred to by NatWest was 
not a fair reason to decline the application. And that the previous owner had health issues 
and no prospect of being involved in the business of S. The current directors have no 
personal financial issues. S is now having difficulty making payments and there is a pressing 
need to access overdraft borrowing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that the decision whether or not to lend is a commercial one which we wouldnt 
generally interfere with. NatWest is able to set its own lending criteria and determine what it 
will take into account in making a lending decision. I cant reasonably find that in taking the 
financial connections of S into account NatWest acted unfairly.
Id expect NatWest to be able to show that it correctly applied its own process and that it 
followed the The Standards of Lending Practice - Business Customers issued by the 
Lending Standards Board. And Im satisfied it did so by explaining in advance to S how an 
application would be assessed and telling S the primary reason for the decline of the 
borrowing. When S appealed NatWest asked it for more information about its business and 
considered this. And it referred S to other sources of finance which I understand S had 
already been able to access. 
My assessment will I know come as a disappointment to the directors given the financial 
pressures that theyve explained S continues to face. But I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman