DRN-3800291
The complaint
Mrs F complains American International Group UK (AIG) acted unfairly by failing to advise 
her cover was no longer valid, and continuing to collect premiums for many years. 
What happened
Mrs F was a beneficiary of her employers group income protection policy, underwritten by 
AIG. And one of the specifics of the policy was cancer cover. The policy terms stated cover 
would end after the policyholder was first diagnosed with cancer and benefits paid. And it 
also stipulated cover would end when the policyholder turned 65. 
Mrs F was diagnosed with cancer in 2011 and AIG paid her claim. Based on the policy 
terms, the cover ended following this claim. However AIG failed to stop collecting Mrs Fs 
premiums and didnt tell her the cover had ended. AIG continued to collect premiums from 
Mrs F over the following years, including after she turned 65, which was another point at 
which the policy stated cover would end. 
In 2022, Mrs F was diagnosed with cancer again, and contacted AIG to make a claim. This 
prompted AIG to identify its mistake and it declined the claim. 
Mrs F complained to AIG. It said cover ended after Mrs F made the first cancer related claim 
against her policy in 2011. It apologised for its error in continuing to collect premiums and 
refunded these, plus interest at 8%. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, Mrs F brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened. They said they thought AIG had acted fairly in 
refunding the premiums and paying interest. However they said AIG should pay a further 
£200 in respect of the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
AIG made no comment on the investigators view. However Mrs F disagreed. In summary 
she said AIG had missed several opportunities to let her know her cover was no longer in 
place. And she thought the same error might be affecting a lot of other consumers. 
As Mrs F asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say AIG has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Firstly, whilst I appreciate the point Mrs F has raised about AIG having potentially made the 
same error for other consumers, this isnt something which Im able to look into or comment 
on as part of this complaint. As a service our role is not to comment on the validity of 
processes operated by a business. Thats the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Our role is to look at how rules and processes are applied to individual consumers 
circumstances and, where they have created unfairness, how that unfairness can be 
resolved. So thats what Ive gone on to consider. 
AIG has accepted that it made an error in failing to tell Mrs F her cover was no longer valid 
after her claim in 2011, and in continuing to collect her premiums. It refunded the premiums 
collected in error, and paid interest at 8%. And thats what I would expect a business to do in 
these circumstances. To put things right, Mrs F should be refunded the premiums, as there 
was no longer any cover in place, and she should be paid interest over the time she has 
been without that money. 
However Ive also gone on to consider the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs F. AIG 
didnt tell Mrs F her cover was no longer valid following her claim in 2011, and it also missed 
further opportunities to advise her, including when she turned 65. This led to Mrs F 
attempting to make a further claim in 2022 which was declined. Ive considered the impact of 
this inconvenience to Mrs F, and I think the £200 the investigator recommended is fair. I say 
this because although AIG collected premiums in error over many years, Mrs F was unaware 
of the problem before 2022. And once AIG identified its error, it rectified it relatively quickly 
by cancelling the policy and refunding the premiums with interest. But I appreciate Mrs F 
was inconvenienced in having to correspond with AIG about this, and wasted time 
attempting to make a claim which wasnt covered.
Mrs F is also unhappy that she was unable to make a successful claim when she was 
diagnosed with cancer for a second time. However this isnt something Ive taken into 
account when assessing the distress and inconvenience caused to her. And thats because 
the policy she had out was never intended to provide cover for more than one diagnosis of 
cancer. So regardless of AIGs error, a further claim would never have been covered.  
Ive also considered whether Mrs F lost the opportunity to seek cover elsewhere. However 
after having been diagnosed and treated for cancer in 2011, I think its unlikely that she 
would have been able to easily obtain cover against a second diagnosis in the future, at that 
time. And if she had, I think its most likely the costs of that cover would have been 
significant and much higher than the premiums shed been paying to AIG. Ive also reviewed 
the policy documentation, and I think its made clear that cover will end after cancer is 
diagnosed and benefit paid. So although AIG failed to tell Mrs F this when she made her first 
claim, I think its reasonable to expect that she should also have been aware of the 
limitations of the cover she had.
Putting things right
Overall Im satisfied AIG acted fairly in refunding Mrs Fs premiums and paying interest. 
However I think it needed to do more to put things right, and should pay compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused, as Ive explained above.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct 
American International Group UK to pay £200 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused. AIG must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs F accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation, 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman