DRN-2938045
The complaint
Ms G complains about how Esure Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy. She wants her car repaired and compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
 
What happened
Ms Gs car was damaged, and she made a claim on her policy. Esures approved repairer 
took Ms Gs car for repairs and she was provided with a courtesy car. Ms Gs car was 
returned but she thought a front tyre had been damaged by the repairer. Esure collected the 
car for inspection and provided Ms G with a courtesy car. Esures engineer didnt think the 
cars tyre had been damaged by the repairer. Ms G was unhappy with this, that a courtesy 
car had faults and that Esure had increased her premium as it said shed underestimated her 
annual mileage. 
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Esure 
had reasonably kept Ms G mobile by providing her twice with a courtesy car. He didnt see 
evidence that one of the cars had faults. He thought there wasnt evidence that the repairers 
had damaged the front tyre. He thought it was reasonable for Esure to increase Ms Gs 
premium based on her actual mileage. 
Ms G replied that an alloy wheel had been replaced with an old wheel. But Esure said the 
alloy wheel was of the same pattern as the others. It didnt have any evidence that this had 
been replaced by the repairer but that it had been repaired. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms G 
and to Esure on 21 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Ms G wanted her car completely repaired and safe to drive after it 
was hit by a lorry. 
Ms G said the damage to the front tyre was pointed out by a garage the first day after it was 
first returned by the repairer. She thought it had been damaged during repairs. When Ms G 
took the tyre to be repaired, the repairer pointed out that the alloy wheel was bent and didnt 
match the other three on the car. Ms G thought the approved repairer had replaced the 
wrong alloy and this damaged the tyre. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
The reported damage to Ms Gs car was to the drivers side front wheel and wheel arch and 
surrounding areas. The approved repairer pointed out that a rear tyre needed replacing. 
Then Ms G took the car to a tyre repairer to have the rear tyre repaired. 
The tyre repairer found damage to the tyre where the approved repairer had refurbished the 
alloy. Esure took the car back to have it reviewed. The car was then delivered to the tyre 
repairer. This was when the bent wheel and different alloy were pointed out to Ms G.
I could see that the approved repairer thought the damage to the tyre could have been 
caused by hitting a pothole on Ms Gs journey to have the back tyre replaced. Esures 
engineer reviewed this and didnt think the damage to this tyre could be considered as part 
of the claim. 
Ms G provided photographs which showed the damage to the tyre, to the wheel and that the 
alloy didnt match the others. But Esure maintained its position. 
I asked Esure to provide me with the evidence it used to make its decision that it wasnt 
responsible for the damage to this wheel, a video and photographs provided by Ms G and 
taken at the approved repairers. But it hasnt done so. From the images Ms G provided, the 
front alloy is clearly different to the rear one. And so I couldnt say that Esure had justified its 
decision not to pay for repairs to this front wheel. And so I thought it should put things right 
for Ms G by paying for the repair of her cars wheel. 
If Ms G has had the wheel repaired, then I thought Esure should refund this amount, with 
interest as Ms G has been without her money for some time. And I thought it should pay her 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. This was in keeping with what Id 
award in similar circumstances.
Ms G said the first courtesy car provided had a broken gearbox. The garage that had 
provided it said that it was new and undamaged. The car, as Ms G has pointed out, was 15 
months old at the time. But I didnt see any evidence that it was damaged when provided to 
her. 
Ms G was unhappy that Esure increased her premium because it said shed understated her 
annual mileage. On the policy schedule, Ms G said she drove between 1,000 and 2,000 
miles annually. But Esure calculated, based on the cars mileage since its last MOT, that she 
was driving about 16,000 to 17,000 annually. Ms G later said she did about 7,000 over two 
years. But I thought it was reasonable for Esure to base its estimate on Ms Gs recent 
mileage. So I couldnt say it did anything wrong in this. 
Subject to any further representations by Ms G or Esure, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Esure replied that it accepted my provisional decision. Ms G didnt provide any further 
representations for me to consider. So I can see no reason to change my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
I require Esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Pay for the repair of the damaged wheel and replace the alloy on Ms Gs car.
2. Or, if Ms G has had the wheel repaired, reimburse her for this, adding interest at the rate 
of 8% simple per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
3. Pay Ms G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of her claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Esure Insurance Limited to 
carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman