DRN-3137799
The complaint
Miss B complains about her secured loan with Swift 1st Limited. She says that:
The balance of the loan is higher than it should be and around the amount due to be 
repaid when she took the loan out in 2007; and
Swift has not treated her fairly during periods of hardship.
What happened
Miss B took out the loan in late 2007. Shes not been able to keep up the monthly payments 
over the years and the balance of the loan has increased. In 2018 and 2019 she complained 
to Swift about the balance on the account. It explained what had happened and agreed to 
waive some charges. It has also reduced the interest rate most recently to 7.2% as a 
temporary measure. 
In both 2018 and 2019 Swift issued final response letters to Miss B. It also issued a third 
final response letter after she complained again at the end of 2020. In July 2021 Miss B got 
in touch with us. Our investigator explained that Miss B had complained too late about the 
increase in the loan balance but that we could look at her complaint about fair treatment 
during the last six years  taking the date of the most recent final response letter that was 
from January 2015 onwards.
The investigator initially concluded that Swift could have done more in 2018 when it sent an 
agent to speak with Miss B and was aware that she was having difficulty with payments. She 
subsequently accepted Swifts contention that it could only work with information it had and 
that Miss B rarely provided information about her circumstances. The investigator 
sympathised with Miss B and the difficulties she had faced but concluded Swift had done 
enough and that it had treated her fairly.
Miss B asked for that conclusion to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Miss B has faced since taking out the loan and I do 
understand her concern at the amount which needs to be repaid. I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator about the part of the complaint I can consider and 
that does not include the loan balance. 
I have noted that over the years Miss B has not been able to keep up with the payments and 
nor has she been able to increase the monthly payments to bring the account up to date. 
Swift has provided annual statements for the account and those statements included 
information about what would be needed by way of payments to make sure the loan was 
repaid by the end of the 15 years. There has been little contact with Miss B and in the main 
she has not responded when Swift has sought to engage with her. Following a visit by a field 
agent in 2018 she offered to make a larger payment and subsequently mentioned the 
possibility of a remortgage. In 2020 she mentioned she might be receiving a redundancy 
payment which would help. 
I have looked more closely at what happened in July 2018 and seen that the report produced 
by the field agent includes she will pay off the full arrears this month. The report also shows 
a small shortfall on income against expenditure and suggests that Miss B was both surprised 
by the arrears and expecting the loan to be repaid in full at the end of its term. 
Following the visit Swift clarified matters with Miss B and provided her with the 2018 final 
response letter which explained how the loan account worked and why the balance had 
increased. Swift also wrote on 31 July asking for further contact as what had been discussed 
did not seem affordable and it was after that that a possible remortgage was mentioned.
Unfortunately, Miss B was unable to make any large payments and is now looking to see 
what can be done. Swift has in the past refunded some charges and reduced the interest 
rate from the contractual rate of 17.55% with the most recent reduction taking it down to 
7.2% for 12 months. It has described this reduction as a gesture of goodwill, but I hope that 
on conclusion of this complaint Swift and Miss B will work together to see how repayment of 
the loan can be arranged.
Overall, Im satisfied that Swift has not acted outside the terms of the contract it had with 
Miss B and that it has not been unreasonable in its management of the loan account since 
January 2015. That is the extent of what I can consider here. Swift has provided sufficient 
information for her to be able to engage meaningfully with it or to be able to ask someone 
else to help her with that. Ultimately she has not done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Clare Mortimer
Ombudsman