DRN-2364786
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
gave him unsuitable advice when it advised him to contract-out of the state earnings related 
pension scheme (SERPS) in 1988.
What happened
Mr A has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But for ease I will generally refer in this decision to all communication as being with, and 
from, Mr A himself. The advice that Mr A was given in 1988 was from a representative of 
Co-operative Insurance. That firm is now the responsibility of Royal London. So for 
simplicity, although Mr A had no dealings with Royal London at the time, I will refer to 
Royal London as the responsible business in this decision.
In 1988 Mr A was advised by Royal London to contract out of SERPS with effect from 
April 1987. He opened an Appropriate Personal Pension with Royal London that was used 
to receive rebated contributions from the Department of Health and Social Security 
(DHSS). Royal London says that it received rebates from the DHSS in respect of Mr A for 
the years 1997 and 1988.
In 2019 Mr A complained to Royal London about the advice he'd been given. He felt he 
would have been better off had he not contracted out of SERPS. Royal London felt the 
advice Mr A had been given was appropriate. It said he met the necessary requirements 
regarding age, gender and earnings for the advice to contract out of SERPS to be suitable.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt the advice 
Mr A received was suitable as he met the relevant eligibility criteria. He acknowledged that 
this sort of advice was based on a series of assumptions on the likely investments returns 
that might be achieved. But he noted that contracting out seemed a favourable option in 
general at the time when the investment climate was more promising.
Mr A didnt agree with that assessment. He said he thought it was bordering on absurd that a 
consumers age and earnings were the key considerations when assessing whether it was 
suitable to give up something that came with guarantees and protection against inflation, and 
replace it with something that came with a high risk of a lower retirement income. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr A and by Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Many consumers were advised to contract out of SERPS because, at the time, the assumed 
growth of a private pension and the annuity rates available made it seem likely they would 
be better off. However, over the following years investment growth has been less than 
expected and annuity rates have fallen. And that's led to complaints like this one.
Mr A has drawn comparisons between his current pension and what it would have been had 
he not contracted out of SERPS. It's easy to see why Mr A might feel hard done by when 
he's followed the recommendation of the adviser and he's lost out because of it. But the fact 
Mr A might now be worse off having contracted out of SERPS doesn't automatically mean 
the advice he received at the time was unsuitable. It's important that complaints like this are 
assessed based on what was known or reasonably assumed at the time the advice was 
given; not what is now known with the benefit of hindsight.
The consumer's age at the time the advice was given is important to this type of complaint. 
That's because the growth that might be achieved in a pension is affected by the length of 
time between each payment and the consumer's retirement age. The longer the money is 
invested, the better the chance that the consumer would be better off by contracting out of 
SERPS. For consumers who were closer to retirement it was generally more sensible for 
them to remain in SERPS.
For this reason financial businesses like Royal London set what were called 'pivotal ages'  
this was essentially the maximum age for men and women below which they might expect to 
be better off by contracting out of SERPS.
The amount the consumer earned at the time the advice was given is also important to this 
type of complaint. That's because consumers who only paid a small amount of National 
Insurance would receive a very small payment from the DHSS. And the charges on a 
personal pension would make it unlikely that those consumers would be better off in 
retirement.
For this reason financial businesses also often set a minimum earning level  this was 
essentially the minimum amount a person could earn above which they might expect to be 
better off by contracting out of SERPS.
With that in mind, in deciding this type of complaint the main things I look at are the 
consumer's age compared to the pivotal age at the time and the consumer's earnings 
compared to the set minimum earnings at the time. If the consumer was below the pivotal 
age, and earned more than the minimum amount, it's very unlikely that I will uphold the 
complaint.
At the time Mr A received the advice, Royal Londons pivotal age was 50 for males and the 
minimum earnings level it set was equivalent to the lower earnings limit of £1,976. Mr A was 
43 at the time the advice was given and Royal London recorded that he earned £11,960 at 
the time. So he easily met those criteria. As a result I think the advisor had reasonable 
grounds to think that Mr A could potentially benefit from contracting-out of SERPS.
Taking all the above into account, I'm satisfied that the advice Mr A received in 1988 was 
suitable. I appreciate he appears to have lost out. However, based on the relevant criteria 
and what was known and reasonably assumed at the time, it was likely that he would have 
been better off by contracting out. And the advice he received was in line with that likelihood.The information Mr A was given at the time about the Royal London pension scheme made it 
clear that his SERPS rebates would be invested in a with-profits fund. In particular, I note it 
said: Each contribution accumulates to provide a fund at State pension age, part of which is 
guaranteed. The remaining investment value comes from bonuses representing your share 
of the profits of our life and pensions business. Bonuses are normally added throughout the 
duration of the plan and, once added, they are guaranteed. 
I appreciate that Mr A feels he should have been advised to invest in a range of funds, but 
the information he received at the time made it clear that his SERPS rebate funds would be 
invested in a with-profits fund. Mr A has said that he is likely to have had a cautious attitude 
to risk at that time. I dont think the investment approach that the personal pension offered 
was significantly at odds with that risk profile.
I must also take into account that, as the point of sale information sets out, Mr A benefited 
from a 2% enhancement on his SERPS rebates. Based on his age and income at the time 
the advice was given I dont agree that it could have reasonably been foreseen that the 
advice to contract-out was likely to leave Mr A worse off.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman