DRN-3536904
The complaint
Mr A complains about Astrenska Insurance Limiteds (AIL) handling and level of 
compensation following a claim under his landlords home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr A contacted AIL to make a claim regarding a faulty boiler. It sent out an engineer who 
repaired the issue which he diagnosed as a leaking radiator valve and left. The next day, Mr 
A contacted AIL again to report a leak from the radiator. It sent another engineer who 
diagnosed that the radiator valves were leaking and reported that the radiators were old and 
needed maintenance. 
AIL said that it told Mr A this and that his policy would not cover wear and tear. Mr A said 
that the second engineer attended the property and didnt carry out the repair and left. He 
complained to AIL and also said that it wouldnt respond to his calls, nor would it send out an 
engineer. In its final response, AIL explained that the work wasnt covered under his policy, 
as the radiators were too old, and wear and tear wasnt covered. 
Mr A contacted AIL on a few occasions until one of the advisors had told Mr A that another 
engineer would be sent out. Mr A refused the services of that engineer and the matter was 
escalated to a manager, who then agreed that Mr A could engage the services of an 
independent contractor to carry out the repairs to the valves and for it to reimburse the costs, 
within the policy terms and conditions.  Mr A initially didnt agree to this but AIL would not 
send out another engineer. 
Mr A got the radiator valves repaired via an independent engineer. And AIL reimbursed him 
the cost of this. Mr A asked AIL if it would pay compensation of £300 to his tenants as they 
had been without heating and hot water for a period of time. AIL didnt agree to this as it 
advised Mr A that this wasnt part of the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr A logged a further complaint to AIL. In its second final response, AIL confirmed that the 
policy didnt cover loss of earnings or rent but Mr A shouldve been offered temporary 
heating initially (which he wasnt) as this is a benefit under the policy, and for this error, AIL 
offered £40 compensation. 
Mr A remained unhappy and referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. His view was that AIL had 
explained to Mr A that his policy wouldnt cover wear and tear of the radiators. He said that it 
had been reasonable to agree to pay for the third-party engineer to attend and carry out the 
repairs  even though it had found that this had been an error on its part. He agreed that the 
policy didnt allow for a reimbursement of Mr As tenants, so it wouldnt be reasonable for 
him to ask AIL to compensate his tenants for this. He concluded that the £40 offered as 
compensation was fair, due to the error of not offering temporary heating. 
AIL accepted the view, Mr A did not. He felt that it was the duty of AIL to rectify the mistakes 
that its engineer made as the radiator was leaking due to their fault. He said the valves were 
covered under the policy and AIL should have fixed them. He explained that the independent 
engineer fixed the leaky valves and told him that the cause wasnt as a result of the age of 
the radiators. He concluded that radiators didnt leak normally as it was usually valves that 
leaked. And before the first engineer came, the system worked perfectly well. He believed 
that he shouldnt have had to enter into a pay and claim, that AIL breached the terms of the 
contract and left his tenants without heating and hot water. So, he asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mr A, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision.
Mr A complained that his tenants ought to be compensated as they were without hot water 
for a period of time. I have read the policy schedule, terms and conditions and they show 
that the policyholder is Mr A and not his tenants. It also does not provide cover for loss of 
rent that Mr A mightve incurred. So, I cant agree that Mr As tenants should be 
compensated as the policy does not support this. Nor are the tenants party to the agreement 
or policyholders. So, I think AIL were reasonable not to offer compensation for Mr As 
tenants.
The home emergency policy that Mr A had did not provide cover for maintenance issues. AIL 
said that both its engineers who attended said that parts were needed for the radiators and 
as the radiators were in a poor state due to their age, they would need to be replaced which 
wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mr A said that the independent engineer who attended to replace the valves told him that the 
issue wasnt with the radiators. And because of this, AIL should have replaced the valves. Mr 
A also said that it was the fault of AILs first engineer who caused the leak to the radiators in 
the first place, so he believed that AIL were responsible for the repair. 
I have not been provided with any expert evidence from Mr A that either shows that there 
was something that the first engineer did to cause the radiators to leak. Nor have I been 
provided with any expert testimony that the issue with the system was solely due to the 
valves. 
Conversely, the two AIL engineers (who are considered to be experts) were consistent in 
their opinion that as the radiators were so old and the valves were leaking, both needed to 
be replaced. But as the policy didnt provide cover for wear and tear, this wouldnt be 
covered. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that a further engineer didnt attend. 
Despite this, AIL agreed to reimburse Mr As costs for getting an independent engineer to 
replace the valves. From the evidence, AIL said that it did this as a good will gesture, due t 
the high level of correspondence between AIL and Mr A. And not because it should have 
been covered under the policy. So, I think that AIL were fair and reasonable to have agreed 
to reimburse Mr As costs, which ultimately meant that Mr A wasnt out of pocket for the 
repairs. I note that AIL also paid Mr A, a further £40. It seems that this payment should have been 
made earlier by AIL, for temporary heating. And as AIL hadnt made the payment, it offered 
to pay Mr A this for the error. I think this offer was fair, especially as Mr A confirmed (during 
one of the calls to AIL) that his tenants didnt require additional heating as they had already 
had electric heaters.  So, I think this is both fair and reasonable given the impact and what 
Mr As policy covers.
Finally, Mr A said that AIL had offered him £200 following our investigators view. He said 
that he was told by AIL that the offer was made on the instruction from our service. AIL has 
confirmed that the email sent was an error and no offer had been made. Whilst I understand 
how frustrating this wouldve been for Mr A, I do think that the email was sent in error. And 
because this was identified quite quickly, I think that any impact wouldve been minimal. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that AIL was fair and reasonable in its offer 
of £40 towards the additional heating. I also think it was fair and reasonable for it to  
reimburse Mr As costs for the independent engineer. Although I understand that this is not 
the outcome Mr A wouldve liked, I wont be asking AIL to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman