DRN-2134078
The complaint
Mr C complains that when he contacted The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential) to correct the value of his total household income that hed provided during an 
initial meeting theyd had, Prudential failed to use that corrected figure in its assumptions 
when analysing whether the transfer of his deferred Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
benefits was in his best interest. He is now concerned that he will exhaust his retirement 
account funds earlier than anticipated and is unsure that he would have gone ahead with the 
original advice if hed known that at the time.
What happened
Mr C met with Prudential in August 2018 to discuss the possibility of transferring his deferred 
OPS benefits to a flexible retirement account. During the meeting Prudential underwent a 
fact finding exercise to gather the information needed to make its recommendation of 
whether a transfer was in Mr Cs best interest. This involved modelling Mr Cs financial 
position in retirement using his likely income and expenditure. Mr C provided the relevant 
figures required which showed a joint current income of £3,700 with an expenditure in 
retirement, after his mortgage was repaid, of £2,700.
But soon after the meeting Mr C found out that his wifes income was £500 more than hed 
thought, so he contacted Prudential to make an alteration to the figures before it made its 
recommendation. Two weeks later Prudential presented its recommendation which was 
replayed in a suitability report. The report stated that Mr Cs main objective in retirement was 
to provide a net household income of £2,700 per month, £1,700 of this will be met from 
Mrs Cs continued employment income leaving you with a shortfall of £1,000 per month. You 
would like to raise this money in a tax efficient manner from your pension. Mr C accepted 
the recommendation to transfer the benefits of one of his OPS which then completed in 
November 2018.
In October 2019, prior to being made redundant, Mr C decided to check his personal 
pension projection and noticed that while Mrs Cs income had been updated as requested 
the joint income remained the same as had been recorded at the meeting. Mr C thought that, 
as the assumed figure used by Prudential for his expenditure in retirement was £500 less 
than it should have been, his pension funds would run out sooner than expected by virtue of 
having to meet the higher expenditure. 
So he complained about the matter, suggesting that it might have affected his decision to 
transfer in 2018 if hed been aware of the possible earlier exhaustion of his funds. He wanted 
Prudential to either reinstate the original OPS benefits or to refund its advice fee. 
But Prudential didnt uphold the complaint.  It said that it had amended the income for Mrs C 
as requested but didnt have any evidence that Mr C had wanted his retirement outgoings to 
be increased also. 
It said that it didnt base its recommendations on Mr and Mrs Cs current joint income but on 
their retirement expenditure  which it hadnt been suggested would need to be increased in 
retirement. 
It also said that it provided all the relevant information that Mr C needed to make his decision 
at the time and so it thought he would have raised his concerns if he thought the information 
was incorrect. However, Prudential did make a payment of £25 to Mr C for the length of time 
hed been left on hold when he tried to contact it about the problem.
Mr C wasnt happy with this outcome so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter  but said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said 
that Prudentials adviser had amended the net income details as requested by Mr C and 
there was no request to amend the expenditure as well. But he also thought that the transfer 
represented Mr Cs best route to achieving his retirement goals, so even if there hadnt been 
a misunderstanding relating to the income and expenditure figures he believed Mr C would 
more likely than not have agreed to transfer. 
But Mr C still believed that he might not have gone ahead with the transfer had the correct 
monthly income been used in the projections. So, he asked for his complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman and its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I know 
this is an outcome that will disappoint Mr C, so Ill explain my reasons.
Mr C has succinctly confirmed the basis of his complaint in an email to the investigator from 
21 July 2020. 
He said Because the incorrect household monthly income of £2700 was used in the 
calculation, this meant that the income drawdown fund didn't run out until my early to mid 
90s So this mistake has a major financial impact on my retirement. Had the correct 
amount of £3200 been used, then the fund runs out much earlier in my early
80s. Had I known this at the time, I may not have transferred out of the Final Salary 
scheme.
So Ive started by looking at whether an error was made when Mr C made Prudential aware 
of the additional £500 of income that needed to be included in its analysis.  
The amendment that was made and whether it was correct
Ive looked carefully at the fact find that was completed by Prudential from 9 October 2018. 
Originally Mr Cs monthly income was recorded as £2,430 with Mrs Cs as £1,300. Following 
a subsequent discussion between Mr and Mrs C, Mr C emailed Prudential and said can you 
go ahead and get the analysis done for the potential transfer please. Also, a small change to 
the household income (Mrs C) takes home about £1,800 per month, I think we had it at 
around £1,300 yesterday.
And Ive seen how this was then revised by Prudential in the copy of the fact find that Ive 
been provided with. So I cant reasonably say Prudential did anything wrong here because it 
made the adjustment that Mr C asked it to make. 
But the issue here is that Mr C says all his income is accounted for in the household 
expenditure  so any change in the income needed to be reflected in the household 
expenditure, which would then have affected the viability of the transfer with respect to the 
additional expenditure that needed to be covered. The effect of not amending the expenditure
Looking at the suitability report that Prudential issued, it set out its reason for recommending 
the transfer as to provide an additional income of approximately £1,000 per month from age 
55. Although it was explained that this would vary throughout Mr Cs retirement, depending 
on his circumstances. The circumstances were detailed in Prudentials retirement modeller 
 where at various ages Mr and Mrs Cs income would fall due to loss of employment but 
rise again with the addition of private and then state pensions. But this was all set out 
against the outgoings of £2,700 that Mr C had previously confirmed during the meeting it 
would be necessary to cover  after the mortgage was repaid in late in 2018.
Prudential has said that it carried out its modelling and analysis  not on the income 
Mr and Mrs C received  but on the need to cover the shortfall against the outgoings, 
depending on the various falls and rises in the total household income. And I think 
Prudentials approach to determining what recommendation it would reach seemed to be a 
reasonable way forward  especially considering that it had expressly said a transfer based 
purely on a like for like income comparison wouldnt be in Mr Cs best interest, as the OPS 
would provide a much higher income level.
So I dont think Prudential did anything wrong in the way it carried out its modelling here. I 
think it was reasonable for it to expect Mr C to have said if he wanted the outgoing figure to 
be increased in retirement, and I think it was reasonable for it to consider the 
expenditure/outgoing figure to be accurate, as it had gathered that information just two 
weeks previously and it wasnt made aware of any changes in Mr Cs circumstances that 
might have led to higher outgoings in retirement at that time. 
The issue here is that Mr Cs view of his outgoings was that, as he doesnt save money, they 
would be the same as his total income, so when he contacted Prudential to amend his wifes 
income he would have expected the corresponding outgoings to have increased accordingly. 
But based on the information it was provided with, and the way in which it carried out its 
modelling, I dont think this would have affected the conclusions Prudential reached  which 
were based on a very specific set of circumstances and the need to cover a varying shortfall 
in income against expenditure throughout Mr and Mrs Cs retirement. 
That Mr C had been asked to carefully confirm his expenditure in retirement, which included 
a certain level of discretionary income, would suggest any additional income would probably 
have led to a surplus of funds  which he could then use at his own discretion, although it 
wouldnt be fair for me to speculate on what that might be. In this case I dont think the effect 
of the amendment in Mrs Cs income should have led to Prudential doing anything different 
because it wasnt told by Mr C that the expenditure should automatically increase as well. 
  
Ive also taken into account that Mr C says he was presented with the personal planner 
Prudential used to model his situation and make its recommendation. He says he checked 
some parts of the planner but didnt check the assumed monthly expenditure  which he now 
accepts he ought to have done as it would have led to him identifying the matter and asking 
Prudential to remodel his position. It was when Mr C checked that same information a year 
later that he was able to identify the problem, so I think it was within Mr Cs own capabilities 
to have picked up the error when a recommendation was made to transfer and asked 
Prudential to recalculate whether it was still in his interest. 
That said, and I dont think it was Mr Cs sole responsibility to ensure all the figures were 
correct according to the information hed provided, I dont think Prudentials overall 
recommendation was incorrect based on the way it calculated Mr Cs retirement needs.
  
Whether the transfer was suitableAlthough I dont think Prudential did anything wrong in recording the changes Mr C wanted 
to make to his wifes income or that it had an effect on the recommendation Prudential put 
forward, I have also considered the overall suitability of the transfer and whether Mr C would 
have agreed to go ahead even if the information had been changed as he expected. Mr C 
himself has said hes unsure if he would gone ahead with the transfer if hed known his 
pension fund would be exhausted considerably sooner than he was previously informed. 
Prudentials own analysis said that Mr C would require a fund of £802,519 to provide the 
same benefits at retirement as the OPS. But the transfer value he was offered was £443,542 
 so on a like for like income basis Prudential said the transfer wasnt in his best interest. But 
for Mr C to retire at age 55, which he wanted to do, would have meant receiving £1,087 per 
month from his scheme with no tax free cash or withdrawing tax free cash of £73,400.58 
plus £917 per month. 
But Mr C required more than that  his retirement account was set up to pay him £1,094 per 
month initially, and in addition he could withdraw up to £108,667 as tax free cash either as 
one lump sum or smaller ad-hoc payments. In addition, his wife could expect to receive the 
entire remaining fund on his death as opposed to two thirds of Mr Cs annual pension from 
the OPS. So I can understand why Prudential made a positive recommendation to transfer 
and there are good grounds for understanding why Mr C was happy to accept the 
recommendation  especially as he was aware of the guaranteed benefits he would be 
giving up from the OPS. 
So when considering the reasons that were put forward, and the position Mr C was in  he 
was made redundant from his job less than one year later, I dont think he would have been 
able to achieve his quite specific objectives from the OPS at that time. So, even if the 
transfer analysis had been remodeled with an amended outgoings figure, I think Mr C would 
still have gone ahead with the transfer  which I think he accepted was in his best interest 
given his situations and objectives in 2018. 
I have some sympathy for Mr Cs frustrations however, that if he believes he needs a further 
£500 each month in retirement, then he will deplete his pension fund earlier than anticipated 
 although the flexibility of the plan means that he could choose to take less income  if 
possible - to help preserve the fund.  
I accept though that isnt what Mr C expected and can understand his concerns, but I dont 
think Prudential has acted unreasonably here or treated Mr C unfairly, so I cant reasonably 
ask it to refund its advice fee or reinstate Mr Cs original OPS benefits. I think the transfer 
would have gone ahead regardless and therefore I think Prudential is entitled to keep the fee 
it charged for completing the transfer.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman