DRN-2346787
The complaint
Mr W complains Clydesdale Bank Plc unfairly closed his accounts and refused to allow him 
to transfer his funds elsewhere. He wants compensation for the way he has been treated 
and for Clydesdale to tell him the reasons behind its actions.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. In summary:
- The accounts Mr W held with Clydesdale bank and its various trading names were 
closed. Clydesdale previously sent Mr W letters which gave him seven days to make 
alternative arrangements. Clydesdale said Mr W needed to present in branch to 
withdraw his money.
- Mr W believes Clydesdale unfairly closed his accounts. He doesnt understand why, 
and he wants Clydesdale to tell him why. He cant withdraw his funds in branch 
because he currently resides in another country and thinks Clydesdale have 
discriminated against him.
- Mr W feels the Clydesdale staff he communicated with were at times rude and 
unprofessional.
An investigator at our service didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. They found:
- Clydesdale was able to review and freeze access to Mr Ws accounts in order to 
comply with important legal and regulatory responsibilities.
- Clydesdale could terminate its relationship with Mr W in the same way Mr W could 
have decided he didnt want to bank with Clydesdale. Clydesdale isnt required to tell 
customers its reasons for closing their accounts.
- Clydesdale complied with the terms of Mr Ws accounts when closing them. It was 
reasonable for Clydesdale to follow its usual process in requiring Mr W to attend a 
branch to withdraw the remainder of his funds, even though he was in another 
country.
- The staff Mr W spoke to were not rude or unprofessional in the way they 
communicated with Mr W.
Mr W disagreed with the investigator. He asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so 
the complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Clydesdale was able to close Mr Ws accounts. Generally, it has the commercial discretion 
to decide who it wants as a customer.  But I understand why this was upsetting for Mr W. It 
cant be pleasant to be told youre not wanted as a customer. Clydesdale is, however, under 
no obligation to tell Mr W the reason(s) behind its decision. So, I am not going to direct 
Clydesdale to give him its reasons now.
Mr W believes Clydesdale discriminated against him. He says he never misused his 
accounts, and he cant see why else his accounts would be closed. But Clydesdale doesnt 
need to have found Mr W did something wrong to close his accounts. And, based on what I 
have seen, Im satisfied its decision was not based on a personal characteristic belonging to 
Mr W, such as his race or nationality.
Clydesdale insists Mr W must attend one of its branches to withdraw the remainder of his 
funds. I understand Mr Ws frustration here. He is in another country, so cant attend a 
branch right now. But Clydesdale has important legal and regulatory responsibilities. And in 
Mr Ws circumstances, I understand why Clydesdale requires him to attend a branch in 
relation to those responsibilities.
Mr W is unlikely to have been caused a significant loss by not having access to the funds 
Clydesdale holds. His accounts werent particularly active and from what I can see, they held 
small balances. So, I presume Mr W is using other funds while he is abroad. Im also 
satisfied Mr W will have a realistic opportunity to retrieve his funds. He said he is returning to 
the United Kingdom at some point, so he can attend a branch on his return.
I also cant see how Mr W would have been caused a loss if Clydesdale had given him a 
longer notice period before it closed his accounts. I find he still wouldnt have been able to 
retrieve his funds unless he attended a branch. So, he would have been in the same 
situation he now faces.
I have listened to the calls Mr W had with Clydesdale employees over the phone. Mr W 
clearly was unhappy at what he was being told, but I dont find the tone or attitude of the 
persons he spoke to was rude or unprofessional.
Mr W wants to know if Clydesdale will accept him for credit in the future. Its not possible to 
know whether Clydesdale will agree to lend to him. Its lending decisions will depend on 
multiple criteria at the time a customer applies for credit. But, as Clydesdale terminated its 
relationship with him, it seems unlikely it would approve him for credit right now.
For the reasons I have given, I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman