DRN-2765040
The complaint
Mr T complains that Plum Fintech LTD (PFL) shared his data with a third-party which led to a 
marketing call. Mr T also complains about PFLs use of the term pre-approval. Mr T wants 
PFL to apologise, be more transparent and to pay him compensation. 
What happened
Mr T used a mobile application to look into a loan switching facility. He used an in-app 
service provided by PFL. When Mr T completed the in-app journey, he received a call from a 
company  who Ill refer to as company F. Mr T says they explained they had received his 
details from a broker  who Ill refer to as company M. Mr T says he was left confused after 
this call so he complained to PFL. PFL responded and said, during the in-app journey, Mr T 
was informed that his details were going to be sent to company M. And, by clicking on the 
continue button, Mr T consented to this. PFL said, in relation to the term pre-approval, they 
didnt feel they had misled Mr T. They didnt uphold the complaint.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. She thought PFL hadnt acted unreasonably. Mr 
T disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr T will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Sharing personal information 
Mr T says he received an in-app suggestion for a loan to consolidate debt. He says he went 
through the in-app journey and it brought up details of a bank which he says had the best 
rate, so he selected the option to learn more. He says he was then taken to company Ms 
site and within seconds he received a call from company F. He says PFL committed a data 
breach by sharing his details and financial information with other companies. 
My starting point is PFLs Privacy Policy which sets out how they will use Mr Ts information. 
This says they will share Mr Ts data with service providers. It goes on to say, In order to 
fulfil the contract we have with you, we use certain trusted service providers. These 
providers will each handle your personal data in accordance with their own Privacy Policy. 
Theres a list of service providers which includes company M. This says, if you are looking 
to take out a loan, [PFL] can help by providing your data to [company M] so that they may 
reach out to their loan providers and look for a good deal for you. From the information 
provided, I can see Mr T, during the in-app journey, is presented with a message which 
says: 
Ill send over these details to [company M], my broker, so we can get some quotes. 
By continuing youre indicating that youve provided accurate information and have 
read and agree to [company Ms] Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and you 
understand as part of your application that your data will be shared with [a credit 
reference agency] & other credit bureaus for the purposes of matching you to a 
lender.
Ive looked at company Ms privacy policy and this does say they will share information with 
third parties, and this includes company F. So, taking this all into account, I can understand 
why the involvement of different companies might cause confusion but I cant say PFL have 
acted unreasonably here. The Privacy Policy does make it clear how Mr Ts information will 
be processed and the various parties it will be shared with in order to deliver a service. 
Mr T says, during the in-app journey, the consent to use company M was below the fold and 
there was no link to the terms and conditions. I cant comment on whether this was the case, 
but I can see there is a statement referring to company Ms terms and conditions. And, even 
if there was no link, the terms and conditions are available on their website. 
Mr T queries whether PFL are offering financial advisory services. He says they analyse a 
customers bank statements and then offer a personalised course of action. I can see from 
PFLs terms and conditions, they say they dont provide financial advice to their customers 
and will never make recommendations based on the customers personal circumstances. 
They say, if a customer is uncertain whether a product or service is suitable for them, then 
they recommend the customer seeks advice from a qualified financial adviser. My role is to 
look at the service which PFL have provided to Mr T and I think they have acted in line with 
their terms and conditions. PFLs terms and conditions say they act as an intermediary for 
product providers to assist customers. Once a customer submits an application, PFL provide 
that information to product providers. So, from a service point of view, that is whats 
happened here so I cant say theres been an error by PFL. If Mr T does have concerns 
about whether PFL are acting outside of any regulatory permissions then he will need to 
refer this to the appropriate regulatory body.   
I can see Mr T says he selected an option for unsecured loans but, during the call with 
company F, he was given details about secured loans. He says he received contact from a 
number of loan providers. And, the loan he applied for was with a bank offering an interest 
rate of 3.4% but the suggestions he received were higher. PFL say, the reason Mr T was 
contacted by multiple loan providers and intermediaries is because company M, in itself, isnt 
a loan provider but instead a comparative loan platform that provides comparisons between 
multiple providers to try and get customers a good deal. They say, this also means that the 
terms of the products can vary from provider to provider, though they try and make sure to 
the best of their ability that they are only sending a recommendation when they believe it to 
be in the best interest of their customers. 
Company Ms terms and conditions do show theyre a comparison platform and the service 
they offer is to connect customers with potential lenders which are in line with the details a 
customer has entered on the application form. The terms and conditions say details are 
passed to a range of lenders so, while I understand this was a source of frustration for Mr T, 
I cant say there has been an error by PFL. I understand Mr T is concerned he didnt receive 
the offer for 3.4% interest and the products being offered to him werent unsecured loans. 
So, Ive looked into this further. I can see the terms and conditions say, Sometimes a lender 
may offer you a Product for a higher or lower amount than you initially entered on your 
application form. This means you may be displayed a result which is different to the amount 
you originally applied for. 
I cant see PFL or company M give a guarantee that a customer will always receive an offer 
for a product on the exact terms which are advertised. Products and rates are subject to 
change so I cant say PFL have acted unfairly here. I understand Mr T is concerned about the marketing strategy here and not using the information provided by a customer for the 
purpose for which its been acquired. I cant say theres an error by PFL here but if Mr T is 
concerned about these points, he can refer them to the appropriate regulatory body. 
Pre-approval status 
   
Mr T feels hes been misled by PFLs use of the term pre-approved. The terms and 
conditions say, if a customers results show that a lender has pre-approved them for a loan 
this means they have conducted a soft search of their credit file and there is a good chance 
they will lend to that customer on the basis of the information theyve provided. In these 
circumstances, the rates a customer sees on the website will be the rates they will get 
subject to the lenders further checks. It goes on further to say It is important to note that 
pre-approval does not guarantee you a loan. All loans are subject to lender requirements 
and approval. So, while I do understand Mr Ts point here about the use of the term pre-
approval, I think the terms and conditions do make it clear what PFL mean by this term. I 
can see however, from PFLs complaint response, they have taken on board Mr Ts 
feedback and have started making changes around the wording they use.  
Complaint handling 
Mr T also complains about PFLs handling of his complaint. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the law, if the 
complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into things. Where 
complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take into account 
complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this case, I cant say 
there has been any error by PFL in relation to the issues which relate to regulated activities, 
so I cant look into the complaint handling part of the complaint.     
In summary, I dont think PFL have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of 
this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman