DRN-3314889
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a washing machine she bought using finance provided 
by Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct).
What happened
Mrs B has a finance account with Shop Direct, in July 2019 Mrs B used this account to buy a 
washing machine from a retailer on a buy now pay later basis. The deal was that if Mrs B 
paid for the washing machine in full by the end of a certain period then she would not need 
to pay interest on her purchase.
Within the first three to four months of purchase the washing machine stopped working 
correctly. Initially Mrs B contacted the retailer. The retailer tried to put things right by sending 
out a repairer. But the washing machine was worked on by engineers on a few separate 
occasions. Each time the repair did not work. Mrs B is a key worker. She worked throughout 
the Covid pandemic in close proximity to others. She explains therefore she had to wash her 
clothes every day and it was therefore extremely inconvenient that her washing machine 
kept on breaking down during part of this period. In the end Mrs B contacted her insurer (she 
had appliance insurance) who replaced the washing machine for her, and she disposed of 
the original washing machine. The reason why her insurer replaced the washing machine 
was because its expert engineers were unable to repair it. Mrs B is now being charged 
interest by Shop Direct on the purchase price as she did not repay in full before the interest 
free promotional period ended.
Due to the type of finance that Mrs B used to buy the washing machine she suggests that 
Shop Direct is equally responsible as the retailer for the quality of the washing machine. In 
particular, Mrs B relies on the rights that she suggests she has under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). Therefore, Mrs B complained to Shop Direct 
asking it to take responsibility.
However, Mrs B was not satisfied with how Shop Direct dealt with her. Specifically, Mrs B 
complained that when she contacted Shop Direct, she did not get the level of customer 
service that she is entitled to expect.
Shop Direct suggested that the most appropriate remedy if the washing machine wasnt 
working properly would be to send out an engineer. It would only replace an item if a repair 
could not be carried out successfully. It did accept that Mrs B did not always receive the level 
of customer service she ought to have done and it offered her £25 to make up for this.
Dissatisfied, Mrs B came to our service.
Once the complaint was with us Shop Direct contacted us with further information. In 
summary, Shop Direct let us know that the first and it says the only time it knew anything 
might be wrong with the washing machine was in November 2020. Shop Direct asked if the 
insurers experts had prepared a report at the time, and if so, it wanted to see it. Further, it 
directed Mrs B to the manufacturer so it (the manufacturer) could investigate what was 
wrong with the washing machine (if anything). It suggested this was the correct approach 
because it was Mrs Bs responsibility to demonstrate to it that there was an inherent fault 
with the washing machine before it had to act. It was not aware of any earlier repairs. 
Moreover, Shop Direct indicated that Mrs B had not come back to it for a remedy.  Further 
from its perspective since Mrs Bs insurer had replaced the machine, she was back in the 
position she would have been in had the machine not been defective and therefore if the 
contract had been properly performed. Alternatively, Mrs B was in an even better position 
than she would have been in if she had the original machine, that is because she once again 
has a brand-new washing machine. For all these reasons Shop Direct did not agree it was 
obliged to do anything further.
Mrs B responded to say she had contacted the retailer at least three times and each repair 
failed. The last time she contacted the retailer it told her the washing machine was no longer 
covered by the warranty and it suggested she make a claim on her insurance.
One of our investigators investigated Mrs Bs complaint. She was satisfied that the washing 
machine was not of satisfactory quality. She concluded that it was fair and reasonable to tell 
Shop Direct it had to take responsibility for this. Our investigator recommended that Shop 
Direct could not charge Mrs B interest on the amount she borrowed to purchase the washing 
machine. She recommended that Shop Direct refund any interest Mrs B had paid and not 
charge interest on this sum in future. Further, she recommended that Shop Direct pay Mrs B 
£100 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs B accepted our investigators recommendation, Shop Direct did not. Shop Direct 
reiterated its previous stance save that it did accept that it ought to pay Mrs B £100 for 
distress and inconvenience as we had recommended.
Shop Direct asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at Mrs Bs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs B relies on the provisions of Section 75 in her complaint against Shop Direct. Mrs B has 
the benefit of this provision because of the type of credit she used to purchase the washing 
machine from the retailer. The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs B has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against the retailer, she can also bring a like claim 
against the finance provider that financed the purchase - here that is Shop Direct. 
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Bs complaint, Ive taken 
Section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, 
for example, a court might reach if Mrs B pursued a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. This service is an alternative to the courts.Where a consumer buys goods from a business as in this instance, the law implies a term 
into the contract that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. What counts as 
satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would think is satisfactory, looking at 
all the relevant circumstances. I think in the case of a brand-new washing machine a 
reasonable person would expect that the it would run without issue for much longer than a 
few months. Im satisfied that the washing machine did not meet this standard. 
Shop Direct disputes that the retailer (or anyone else) had several unsuccessful attempts at 
repairing the washing machine within the first few months. But I am persuaded by the 
information I have available to me that the washing machine was faulty, and that Mrs B 
contacted the retailer. I am also satisfied that the retailers engineers tried several times to fix 
the washing machine but could not. Further, I find that the history of repairs with the retailer 
speaks for itself, I dont think a further expert report was necessary. In other words, I think 
the information from the retailer showed the machine was beyond repair. This was 
underlined by the information from and the actions of Mrs Bs insurer. 
Incidentally I dont agree that Shop Direct acted fairly in directing Mrs B to the manufacturer 
to provide it with evidence of a manufacturing fault. It had Mrs Bs evidence about the 
running of the machine and the numerous repairs. It could easily have contacted the retailer 
to verify her version of events. Mrs B appears to have thought the retailer and Shop Direct 
are one and the same due to the similar names. In any event they appear to be part of the 
same family of companies. I think Mrs Bs misunderstanding of this point was not surprising 
in the circumstances, whereas Shop Direct could have cleared up this point easily and 
contacted the retailer itself. Shop Direct talks about a reverse burden of proof. But I think Mrs 
B had already met that bar with the information that she provided and that the retailer could 
have backed up. 
Given that I have found that the washing machine was most likely not of satisfactory quality 
the next question is what Shop Direct needs to do to put this right. It suggests that Mrs B has 
been put in the position she would have been in if the contract had been properly performed. 
This is the redress for a breach of contract and therefore Shop Direct indicates it needs to do 
nothing further. However, its stance does not take account of the months that Mrs B was 
without a functioning washing machine. Further, it also does not take account of the fact that 
it was responsible for the breach of contract and for putting right the breach. But instead, it 
was a third party, a third party that is totally unconnected to Shop Direct that remedied the 
breach of contract. 
Moreover, it seems to me that Mrs B went to her insurer very much as a last resort when all 
other avenues had failed. Ideally Mrs B should have been able to look to Shop Direct to take 
back the faulty machine. In those circumstances, I find it unlikely she would have accepted a 
replacement. Instead on balance, she would have returned the machine and would not now 
be facing interest repayments for a washing machine that did not work as it ought to have 
done. That said it is not possible now for Mrs B to return the original machine. She has got 
rid of it.
Taking all of the above into account, I dont agree that it is fair and reasonable that Mrs B 
must now pay interest on the money she borrowed to buy the washing machine. Rather, I 
think it is fair and reasonable that Mrs B pay for the cash price of the washing machine. 
Otherwise she will have got a washing machine for free. But that is all she must pay for. She 
must be refunded any interest she has already paid, and she must not be charged any 
interest in future. Shop Direct must also ask the credit reference agencies to remove any 
negative information it might have asked them to register in relation to Mrs Bs payment 
history in relation to this purchase. In addition, I think that Shop Direct did not behave as it ought to have done here as I have 
explained above. I find it likely this did cause Mrs B distress and inconvenience and that it 
should pay Mrs B £100 for distress and inconvenience as it has already agreed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited must:
Refund any interest that Mrs B has already paid and must also not charge any 
interest in future on the money that Mrs B borrowed to pay for the washing machine. 
In addition, it must pay interest on any such refund at the rate of 8% a year simple. 
The interest to run from the date that Mrs B made the interest payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mrs B £100 for distress and inconvenience as it has already agreed it will do.
Ask the credit reference agencies to remove any negative information it or its agents 
asked the credit reference agencies to register, in relation to Mrs Bs payment history 
in relation to the purchase of the washing machine.
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it (Mrs B) accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the £100 from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at the rate 
of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman