DRN-2025700
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market acted irresponsibly 
when lending to him. 
What happened
In October and November 2019 Quid Market provided Mr B with loans, each due to be 
repaid by instalments over a number of months. In the event, Mr B paid both these loans 
early.
Heres a table with more details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 03/10/2018 12/10/2018 6 £400.00
2 13/11/2018 21/06/2019 5 £400.00
3 10/10/2019 05/11/2019 5 £300.00 £103.09
4 18/11/2019 19/12/2019 6 £300.00 £99.99
This complaint is just about loans 3 and 4 shown in the table above  but Ive included some 
information about earlier loans which Mr B took out with Quid Market because his lending 
history is relevant to the way Ive thought about his complaint about loans 3 and 4.
Mr B feels that Quid Market shouldnt have provided him with loans 3 and 4 as they added to 
his money problems. Mr B told us that if Quid Market had done proper checks it wouldve 
seen that he was using his money for gambling purposes.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint. Mr B had previously complained to Quid Market 
about irresponsible lending in relation to loans 1 and 2. Quid Market was also aware that it 
had taken Mr B three months longer than originally agreed to make all the repayments on 
the second loan hed taken with Quid Market. 
So our adjudicator felt that when Mr B applied for loan 3 in October 2019 Quid Market 
shouldve been aware from previous discussions with Mr B (about the problems he faced 
making the repayments on loan 2) that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulties and 
possible mental health issues related to his money problems.
Our adjudicator thought for these reasons alone, Quid Market shouldnt have provided 
further loans to Mr B  but as a minimum, it shouldve obtained a full picture of his finances 
before agreeing to lend. 
And our adjudicator said that proportionate checks would most likely have shown Mr B was 
frequently spending on betting transactions an amount in excess of the disposable income 
he had available. So it wouldnt have been clear how he would cover his normal living 
expenses and Quid Market shouldve realised he wasnt able to repay loan 3 in a sustainable 
way. 
So our adjudicator said Quid Market shouldnt have provided the loan (or any further lending) 
and he gave detailed directions setting out what he thought Quid Market should do to put 
things right for Mr B. 
Mr B is happy to accept the adjudicators recommendation.
Quid Market disagreed. It mainly said that Mr Bs earlier complaint about irresponsible 
lending hadnt been upheld and Mr B had then asked Quid Market for further loans. It 
pointed out that there was a four months gap between Mr B paying loan 2 and him applying 
to Quid Market for loan 3 in October 2019  and it told us the checks Quid Market did 
showed a reduction in the amount of Mr Bs overall indebtedness. Quid Market also said that 
due to Mr Bs struggles repaying loan 2, Quid Market asked him for further information and 
Mr B sent a bank statement  which showed no clear evidence of financial difficulty or 
suggest he was gambling.
Quid Market has asked for a review so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Quid Market was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Quid Market has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr B. It asked him to 
provide details of his income and to tell Quid Market what he normally spent each month. 
And Quid Market also carried out checks on Mr Bs credit file. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Quid Market to provide these loans 
to Mr B. Heres why I say this.
Although loan 3 mightve looked affordable on the figures Mr B gave, Quid Market was 
already aware (as a result of its previous lending relationship with Mr B) that he had quite 
recently experienced money problems. I dont think the gap between him paying loan 2 and 
applying for loan 3 was long enough for Quid Market reasonably to assume that Mr B had 
put his finances in order  at least without taking steps to check the position. 
I think that Quid Market shouldve carried out more thorough checks into Mr Bs financial 
situation before agreeing to lend.  
I think Quid Market should have taken further steps to verify what Mr B was saying about his 
financial circumstances and not just rely on what he said. Quid Market hasnt shown me it 
did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend 
to Mr B. 
Mr B has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Quid 
Market was likely to have found out as I think these give a reasonable picture of Mr Bs 
finances at the time. And had Quid Market looked in more depth at Mr Bs finances it would 
likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. I think it would 
have learned that Mr B was regularly spending significant amounts on what appear to be 
gambling transactions. 
I've taken into account everything Quid Market has said in response to our adjudicators 
opinion, but this doesnt affect what I think about this complaint. In particular, I dont think 
that the very limited information Quid Market saw when Mr B sent in an extract from his bank 
statement showing one days worth of transactions was sufficient to amount to a 
proportionate check in these circumstances. And for the reasons Ive explained, I think that if 
Quid Market had done proportionate checks before lending, it wouldve likely seen 
information that shouldve led Quid Market to decline Mr Bs loan application in October 
2019. This means I dont think it was reasonable for Quid Market to think that it was likely Mr B 
would be able sustainably to repay his borrowing  so it shouldnt have provided loan 3 or 
any further lending to Mr B. 
Putting things right
what Quid Market needs to do 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 3 and 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr B the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information Quid Market recorded on Mr Bs credit file for 
loans 3 and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest. Quid Market 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Stagemount Limited trading 
as Quid Market should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman