DRN-1843743
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Ms D held with Paragon Bank Plc. 
Shes unhappy that Paragon refused her request to take the mortgaged property back from 
Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers. More recently, Ms D say the property was sold in 
possession for less than its worth when her brother could have bought it and gifted it back to 
her.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the 
informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Ms D when my decision is 
published.
Ms D took out the BTL in 2007; its been in arrears for much of the time since then, and 
Paragon appointed LPA Receivers to manage the property in January 2018. Ms D asked for 
it to be returned to her, and Paragon set out in a letter dated 3 August 2018 the conditions 
shed need to meet for a return to be considered. These conditions werent met, Paragon 
refused to return the property and in January 2019, Ms D complained. 
Paragon set out detailed reasons for refusing to release the property back to Ms D in its final 
response of 6 February 2019. These included that Ms D had been prosecuted for failing to 
meet her obligations as a landlord, didnt hold a licence permitting her to rent property out to 
tenants generally, and had a county court judgement against her. Ms D referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Paragon had done anything wrong. Ms D asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In doing so, she also said that her BTL 
property had since been sold for less than it was worth, and that her brother would have 
been willing to buy it and gift it back to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
I make the latter point because the rules only allow us to consider a complaint if the business 
has first been given the opportunity to investigate and respond to it. The complaint were 
able to consider here is the one Paragon addressed in its final response in February 2018, 
about the decision not to release the property from the management of the LPA Receivers. It 
wasnt about the sale of the property, the price achieved, or whether Ms Ds brother was 
denied an opportunity to buy it. If Ms D wants us to consider those matters, shell need to 
raise a new complaint with Paragon first, and then refer it to us separately if shes not happy 
with the response.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The starting position here is that under the mortgage agreement with Ms D, Paragon had the 
power to appoint LPA Receivers. How and in what circumstances it exercised that power 
was a matter for Paragons commercial judgement, and generally speaking we wont 
interfere with how a business has exercised its discretion. Exactly the same approach is 
taken to releasing a property that is with LPA Receivers back to a borrower,
Wed only consider interfering in circumstances where we thought that the exercise of 
judgement had resulted in the business treating its customer unfairly. Ive looked long and 
hard at Ms Ds case, and Ive seen nothing that would make me think that test had been met 
here. Looking at the wider circumstances Paragon took into account, there are no 
reasonable grounds for me to second guess the decision not to release the property back to 
Ms D.
The only other observation Id make, largely for completeness, is that we cant consider the 
actions of the LPA Receivers. Once appointed, they acted as agents for Ms D, not for 
Paragon. Ms D may be very unhappy with the way the LPA Receivers have dealt with the 
property, but whatever they did (or didnt do) was in their capacity as agents for Ms D. So if 
she wanted to pursue that, shed need to do it through other means. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman