DRN-3184871
The complaint
Mr D complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Phoenix Life Limited 
(Phoenix) to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) and to 
direct his contributions to a personal pension plan (PPP) instead. Mr D says if hed been 
made aware of the risks involved in doing this he wouldnt have agreed to go ahead.
What happened
In March 1989 Mr D, who was 19 years old at the time, was advised by Phoenix to contract 
out of SERPS. 
 
In July 2020 Mr D, using a professional representative, complained about the advice hed 
been given in 1989 making the following general points:
He shouldnt have been exposed to the risks involved in giving up valuable income 
guarantees in favour of an investment linked PPP.
His contributions were made into a single, complex and high cost managed fund. If 
the advice was deemed to be suitable then the contributions should have been 
diversified across a number of different funds.
He had been exposed to substantial unnecessary fund costs which, over time, 
would have eroded the fund.
He wasnt made aware of the risks associated with the PPP or the investment costs.
The advice was in breach of the regulators rules at the time  which required the 
adviser to act with reasonable skill and care. And material information which would 
have allowed Mr D to make an informed choice about whether or not to contract out 
of SERPS, wasnt disclosed. 
In August 2020 Phoenix responded. It didnt uphold the complaint as it believed that Mr D 
was within the age range it considered suitable for contracting out at the time and his 
contributions were invested into its managed fund  which included shares, property, fixed 
interest and cash funds which it thought was suitable for Mr Ds circumstances. 
But Mr D was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought 
Mr Ds circumstances at the time of the advice suggested that contracting out of SERPS 
would have been to his financial advantage, although he accepted that this wasnt 
guaranteed. He also thought Mr D hadnt been exposed to an unacceptable risk given his 
situation and was of the view that the advice to contract out had been suitable.  
Mr D didnt agree. He said we hadnt addressed the issue of him not being warned that by 
contracting out of SERPS  which provided a guaranteed income, he was at risk of receiving 
a much lower retirement income. He said if that had been made clear to him then he 
wouldnt have taken such a risk. 
He asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know this is an 
outcome which will disappoint Mr D, and Ive some sympathy for his position here. But I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that the advice Phoenix gave was unsuitable and Im 
not going to ask it to do anything here so Ill explain my reasons.
The suitability of the advice to contract out of SERPS
SERPS was a top-up to the basic state pension which meant that in an addition to their basic 
state pension consumers would also receive a SERPS pension at retirement. But the 
government brought in regulation so that consumers could choose to opt out of SERPS, also 
known as contracting-out. This meant that instead of accruing the additional state pension, 
they could build up other benefits by redirecting some of their national insurance (NI) 
contributions to a PPP  or by joining an occupational pension scheme (OPS) that was 
contracted-out. 
This was a fluid situation so that people could contract in or out of SERPS from tax-year to 
tax-year and there was usually a (pivotal) age at which it was beneficial to contract back into 
SERPS. The process required the consumer and employer to pay the normal level of NI 
contributions and, one a year, the state paid (known as rebating) part of these contributions 
into a PPP.
When the government decided to allow individuals to contract-out of SERPS, incentives
were offered to encourage them to do so. No guidance was given on who should be advised
to remain in SERPS or on the type of person it was expected that contracting-out would be
beneficial for. So pension providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected
benefits from SERPS with those from alternative personal pension arrangements, based on 
conservative assumptions of future investment returns.
As there was little government guidance around contracting out providers generally took 
four main factors into account when considering whether to advise someone
to contract out or not. These were:
The pivotal age, which was an age when the provider thought it reasonable to 
assume a consumer would benefit from contracting out  usually thought to be the 
younger the better.
The current salary and whether it met any minimum earning requirement the provider 
had set.
A consumers attitude to risk (ATR).
Whether there was an OPS available to join.
So, Ive looked at the information that was known at the time to assess if the advice was 
suitable and if Mr D was eligible to contract out of SERPS.
The application form that Mr D completed included a declaration which said that I am not 
currently participating in a superannuation scheme of my employer. I think Phoenix was 
entitled to rely on that as confirmation there was no OPS available, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable to rule out the possibility that Mr D could contract out through an OPS. I also 
note Mr D hasnt raised the question of OPS eligibility in his complaint.The age at which a providers advice of whether or not to contract-out might change was 
called a pivotal age. At the time of this advice, when the provider was called Abbey Life  
before it was taken over by Phoenix, its own rules noted that it had a maximum age of 45 for 
males to contract out of SERPS. Mr D was 19 at the time and so was significantly below the
pivotal age. And based on the conservative assumptions used, it was thought in broad terms 
that men beneath the pivotal age would be better off contracting out of SERPS. In Mr Ds 
case there was around 25 years before it was likely advice would be for him to contract back 
into SERPS  which would suggest, given the investment horizon available, that it was in his 
best interest to contract out.
Another factor used to determine whether someone was likely to be better off contracting out
of SERPS was their earnings. Phoenix had no minimum salary requirement at the time, 
although Mr Ds annual earnings  which were noted as being £5,500, were above the lower 
earnings limit which was considered to be enough to ensure that rebates forwarded by the 
government would generally cover the charges of the PPP. But in any case, the earnings 
level was usually only an issue where the consumers pivotal age might mean the advice to 
contract out was borderline. In this case because of the length of time that Mr Ds money 
would be invested, there was a greater chance that he would be better off by contracting out. 
Was Mr D made aware of the risks involved in contracting out and investing into a PPP?
Mr D has complained about the risk he was exposed to as a result of this advice. He said he 
wasnt made aware of the risk of substituting a guaranteed, state funded, SERPS pension 
with an investment linked PPP that would provide an income based on market performance 
over the years. And he also complained about the risk of being invested in a single, 
complex and high cost managed fund. 
Looking at the application form that was completed, Ive seen that Mr Ds contributions were 
made into the managed fund. This was a balanced risk rated fund, often used as a default 
fund at the time, which would have been invested across a variety of asset classes 
according to a medium investment risk strategy. This would have included some equities, 
fixed interest, property, and cash funds which I regard as being diversified. I think this would 
have provided investment across a range of types of risk within an overall balanced holding.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ds situation at the time and considering his age and 
relatively long term likely investment horizon, I dont think this was an inappropriate fund to 
be invested in. In any case Mr D would have had the opportunity to revisit the investment 
strategy over term of the plan  especially if he felt the fund was too high a risk - but theres 
no evidence to show that he subsequently tried to do that. And theres also nothing to 
support the claim that the fund was expensive or a substantial cost in comparison to other 
alternatives. 
Ive also looked at the brochure entitled, in or out of SERPS  whats best for you?, which 
would have been provided to Mr D but in any case, was available to him at the time of his 
application. The brochure set out the choice Mr D had about contracting out and included a 
chart which showed the potential benefits available at various ages. 
But the what next section of the brochure confirmed that, because of the terms offered by 
the government, the younger you are the greater the potential advantage in opting out of 
SERPSremember that even if you opt out of SERPS , it is likely to be advantageous 
to rejoin at some future date.
So I think it was clear that Mr D would need to consider opting back into SERPS at some 
point, presumably the pivotal age, in order to gain the maximum potential benefit. And with 
regards to giving up the guaranteed income benefits of SERPS and the risks involved in doing so, the notes section of the brochure set out the basis of the comparative illustrations 
showing the possible benefits of contracting out or staying within SERPS. 
 
It then confirmed that, these two amounts do not represent the upper and lower limits of the 
possible amount of benefit. The actual comparison with the SERPS benefits given up will be 
affected by the future movement in prices which can go down as well as up, the effect of the 
charging structure of the contract, the terms ruling at the date of retirement for converting 
cash into annuity and future increases in national average earnings.
The chart within the brochure, which was available for consumers to see if it was in their 
interest to contract out, also said check the chart for your age now to see how the projected 
contracted out benefit compares with the projected SERPS benefit. Abbey Life is obliged to 
show two separate lines for the contracted out benefit based on different assumptions about 
the future. This is further explained below.
I think it was clear that these two statements confirmed that Mr D wouldnt receive the same 
guaranteed benefits from the PPP as he would have done from remaining within SERPS. So 
I think he was made aware of the risks involved. Of course, its not now possible to confirm 
what was discussed between the adviser and Mr D  and the extent to which any risks 
involved in the transaction were explained to Mr D. But, even if it wasnt discussed, Im 
satisfied that Phoenix did make Mr D aware of the differences between the schemes and the 
potential risks of redirecting his NI contributions through the written documentation Ive been 
provided with from the time of the application. 
Ultimately here, I have taken the circumstances at the time into consideration, but as Mr D 
met the criteria where there was a reasonable prospect that contracting out could be 
beneficial, I dont think the advice from Phoenix for him to contract out of SERPS was 
unsuitable. And Im satisfied that Phoenix did explain and make Mr D aware of the risks 
involved in the PPP and the underlying investment compared to remaining within the 
SERPS. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman