DRN-4281907
The complaint
Mr K1 and Mr K2 have complained about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc administered an 
interest rate switch to 3.13% on their mortgage account. They say that Barclays only put 
through the rate switch on sub-account 1 of the mortgage , whereas they also wanted it to 
apply to sub-account 2. 
To settle the complaint Mr K1 and Mr K2 would like Barclays to apply the 3.13% switch to 
both sub-accounts on the mortgage, refund the product fee and compensate them for 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr K1 has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat every detail here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr K1 and Mr K2 being identified. 
So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 have a mortgage with Barclays which is in two parts. The main account of 
about £238,000 ends with numbers 8917. There is also a home improvement loan of about 
£103,000 ending 9230. At the relevant time, both parts of the mortgage were on fixed rates 
which were due to expire in January 2023. Barclays allowed customers to reserve a new 
rate before the old one expired.
In late September Mr K1 and Mr K2 applied online for a new interest rate product, a two-year 
fixed rate of 3.13%, but inadvertently only requested this for account 8917, although they 
input the full amount of the total mortgage. An email confirmation was sent by Barclays 
acknowledging the application, quoting account ending 8917. Documents were sent for 
signature, which Mr K1 and Mr K2 signed and returned.
Because of administrative delays at Barclays, Mr K1 and Mr K2 didnt receive the 
confirmation for the rate switch for several weeks, until November 2022 and had to chase 
this up several times. When they received the rate switch offer, Mr K1 and Mr K2 realised 
that the 3.13% rate applied only to the 8917 part of the mortgage, whereas theyd intended 
to switch both parts of the mortgage to that rate. 
By this time the 3.13% rate was no longer available. Mr K1 and Mr K2 decided to switch the 
9230 part of the mortgage to a two-year tracker rate at 0.5% above Bank of England base 
Rate.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 complained. They believed Barclays should, on receipt of the application, 
have contacted them to alert them that theyd only applied to switch one part of the 
mortgage. Mr K1 says that he had assumed he was applying for the new rate on both parts 
of the mortgage and that any reasonable person would agree that it should have been 
highlighted that the renewal only affected the first part of my mortgage and not the second.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. The bank acknowledged that the rate switch 
documentation took some time to complete, partly due to pressure of work and partly 
because there had been an issue with the postcode on record not matching the 
documentation provided by Mr K1 and Mr K2. (This was quickly resolved, as the property 
had previously been allocated a temporary postcode as a new build, but now had a 
permanent postcode. Nothing turns on this.)
Barclays didnt think it had made any error in the rate switch application. The bank said that 
Mr K1 and Mr K2 had applied for only one part of the mortgage to be switched to the 3.13% 
rate, and the confirmatory email had quoted the account number.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 brought their complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was unable to find that 
Barclays had made an error. In addition, the investigator was satisfied that Mr K1 and Mr K2 
had received an email from Barclays confirming that the product switch applied only to 
account 8917.
Mr K1 disagreed with the investigator. He said that Barclays should have checked the 
application and realised that he and Mr K2 had incorrectly assumed they were applying for 
the rate to be applied to both accounts, and corrected this. Mr K1 also said that Barclays had 
promised on numerous occasions to honour the 3.13% rate for account 9230.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr K1 and Mr K2; Im not upholding 
their complaint. These are my reasons.
At the time of the application in late September 2022 mortgage lenders received an 
unprecedented number of applications for rate switches. This was as a result of the 
mini-budget that had taken place on 23 September 2022, which resulted in some turmoil in 
the financial markets and a sharp rise in interest rates. This was outside the control of 
Barclays, and led to delays across all financial services businesses  not just Barclays  in 
processing applications for new products.
The online application for the mortgage renewal submitted by Mr K1 and Mr K2 was only in 
relation to account 8917, and the acknowledgement email received shortly after the 
application was submitted quoted only this account number. Im satisfied Mr K1 and Mr K2 
knew their mortgage was in two parts, and if they had put both account numbers on the 
application, Im satisfied that they could have switched both parts of the account to the 
3.13% rate. I acknowledge that they might have assumed they were switching both parts of 
the mortgage, but they received an email confirming that the application applied to only the 
8917 part of the mortgage. 
Im also not persuaded by Mr K1s argument that Barclays was under any obligation to 
assume that the rate switch should have applied to both parts of the account and corrected 
this without reference to him and Mr K2. First of all, the application was submitted online, 
and so processing of the application would largely be done electronically. I can see that the 
application needed staff intervention because of the postcode issue highlighted above. 
However, that doesnt persuade me that Barclay should have second-guessed what Mr K1 and Mr K2 wanted and switched both parts of the account where they had only applied for 
one part to be switched.
I say this because the 3.13% fixed rate came with an early repayment charge (ERC). 
Account 9230 was a separate loan in its own right on a fixed rate with an ERC, with the 
existing rate expiring in January 2023, following which it would not be subject to an ERC if it 
hadnt been switched to a new interest rate product. 
Barclays was not to know  and couldnt be expected to know, or to guess  whether or not 
Mr K1 and Mr K2 might be intending to pay off this part of the mortgage, waiting until after 
the ERC expired, or to make unlimited overpayments to which no ERC would apply Im 
satisfied, therefore, that it would have been wrong for Barclays to have made an assumption 
and switched the entire mortgage onto a new fixed rate, without specific instructions to do 
so.
Ive listened to the available call recordings, and these do not show that Barclays told Mr K1 
that the bank would honour the 3.13% rate for the 9230 part of the mortgage. Im not 
persuaded, therefore, that Barclays is under any obligation to switch the 9230 account to 
that rate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman