DRN-3268752
The complaint
Miss H complains that NewDay Ltd incorrectly recorded missed payments on her credit file 
after she made the payments due under her repayment plan.
What happened
Miss H is in a repayment plan after falling into financial difficulties. She says she contacted 
the company that managed her repayment plan in February 2021 about a reduction in 
payments and this was agreed. She also said that she had needed to delay her January 
payment which was also accepted. In March, Miss H reviewed her credit file and found that 
NewDay had reported missed payments for February and March 2021. She contacted the 
company managing her repayment plan and says it confirmed the payments had been made 
and these shouldnt be recorded as missed. There were then delays in getting a complaint 
raised and a further missed payment was recorded for April 2021. Miss H raised her 
complaint with NewDay and then referred it to this service.
NewDay issued a final response letter in June 2021. It said that late payments had been 
recorded correctly for January 2021 and February 2021 as no payments were received. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that NewDay had provided evidence 
that showed after the payment received on 29 December 2020, no further payment was then 
received until 1 March 2021. He noted that on Miss Hs bank statement a payment was 
recorded on 26 February 2021, which he understood wasnt received on the account until 1 
March 2021. He didnt think that NewDay had acted unfairly and so he didnt uphold this 
complaint. 
Miss H didnt agree with our investigators view. She noted that she had explained why the 
January payment had been missed but said that she shouldnt have ongoing missed 
payments recorded for March and April. 
NewDay confirmed that late or missed payments hadnt been recorded on Miss Hs credit file 
for March and April. Miss H checked her credit file again and said the missed payments for 
March and April were no longer showing but that a Q (query) status had been applied to her 
account for a number of months when she had been making her payments. NewDay said 
that a Q status didnt have any adverse effect on Miss Hs credit rating. It said when a 
complaint is received a block is applied to the account until the case has been closed. And 
once the complaint is resolved the query block is removed.
Our investigator didnt think NewDay had done anything wrong. Miss H didnt agree. She still 
didnt think it fair that a Q status had been applied to her credit file when her payments been 
made. 
As a resolution hasnt been agree this case has bene passed to me, an ombudsman to issue 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been raised against NewDay and so while I note the concerns Miss H 
has raised about the service (delays in call backs etc) provided by the company managing 
her repayment plan, I have only considered the issues that NewDay is responsible for.
I can see why Miss H is upset as she initially believed that adverse information was being 
applied to her credit file for several months when she was making her payments in line with 
her repayment plan. However, through this investigation it has been confirmed that late 
payment markers were only applied to Miss Hs credit file in respect to her January and 
February 2021 payments (not March and April 2021) and therefore I have only considered 
whether the January and February markers were fairly applied.
Miss H has explained the reason for her January payment being missed and NewDay has 
provided evidence that the first payment in 2021 wants received until 1 March 2021. 
NewDay is required to provide accurate information to the credit reference agencies and as 
the payments werent made by the due date in January and February 2021 I do not find I can 
say NewDay has done anything wrong by recording this.
Miss H provided an extract from her credit file which showed a Q marker against a number 
of months. I can appreciate why she was concerned by this and I understand why she feels 
this could give the impression that she hadnt been making her payments when she had. 
However, NewDay has explained the reason for the Q marker is due to a block being place 
on the account when a complaint is being investigated and that this is its usual business 
process. Therefore, I cannot say that Miss H has been treated unfairly. NewDay has 
confirmed this has no impact on Miss Hs credit rating and will be removed once the 
complaint is resolved. I think this addresses this issue.
I appreciate that Miss H doesnt think she has been provided with the service she should 
have by NewDay in regard to its response to her complaint. However, I note that NewDay 
did respond to Miss Hs initial dispute put forward to NewDay by the company managing the 
repayment plan in April. Miss H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
and NewDay issued a final response and clarified the issues raised.
Overall, while I understand this issue has been upsetting for Miss H, as NewDay has 
confirmed late payment markers were only applied for the January and February 2021 
payments and the evidence provided shows these werent received into the account on time, 
I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman