DRN-4078663
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax changed his address without his 
authorisation and his correspondence went to his ex-partners address. 
What happened
Mr M says that while he was overseas, after checking correspondence in the Halifax 
application (app), he became aware that at some point in July 2022, that the address on his 
account had been changed without his knowledge or permission. He said there were 
numerous items of correspondence concerning his account which had been issued by post 
following the change of address. The address had been changed to his ex-wifes address  
and it wasnt the address that he had previously lived at. 
Mr M contacted Halifax and made a complaint. He says that he was told that the address 
error on his account would be rectified, but the address remained unaltered. Mr M contacted 
Halifax again to find out why the address had not been altered and he says he was told that 
there was nothing they could do until his complaint was assigned to a complaints handler. Mr 
M says that around two weeks after this call the address still wasnt changed, so he rang 
Halifax again, where the call handler agreed to the serious nature of what happened and put 
Mr M on hold while he apparently listened to the previous call recordings. He says the call 
handler said that our service would be automatically informed, which Mr M later found out 
this was incorrect. He says that he found out he could amend the address himself and he did 
this online.
Halifax upheld Mr Ms complaint and credited £250 to his account. They apologised for the 
poor customer service and they said they had been unable to identify how his address was 
changed. They said when the address was changed, it wasnt amended on all of their 
systems, but they have done this now, so they were comfortable that there should be no 
further issues. Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said Halifax have shown that the 
address was amended on 18 December 2021, but theyve been unable to establish why the 
address was changed. He said following Mr M making them aware of this, they didnt change 
the address properly and this reverted to the incorrect address again, and this was only 
resolved when Mr M was able to change the address himself. Our investigator 
acknowledged there were delays in how Halifax handled Mr Ms complaint. He said the 
compensation was fair for the alarm and frustration that the issues had caused Mr M.
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that his ex-wife had received correspondence addressed to him at her 
property and she had contacted the bank regarding this, but they did nothing. Mr M said that 
Halifax breached General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), he said the compensation 
which was offered does not recognise the financial cost of dealing with this error, the distress 
and that Halifax lied to him on numerous occasions. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business to make 
changes to their systems or their privacy policies. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Halifax to make changes to their 
policies and procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution 
service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual 
complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for 
example, make findings about whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about his ex-wife contacting the bank after she received 
paper based correspondence from Halifax addressed to Mr M but containing her address. 
But as this complaint is brought by Mr M solely, Ill only be able to focus on the events that 
occurred between himself and Halifax here. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said about Halifax breaching GDPR. The Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) would deal with any breach of the GDPR. But it is something I 
must take into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a 
complaint and Ill cover off the impact of the address change in my decision. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr M has about finding out exactly what happened 
here. Halifax themselves are unable to confirm exactly what happened, despite carrying out 
their own investigations. So Ill be setting out what I believe has happened on the balance of 
probabilities. I must add that I can only look into Halifaxs actions here and not any other 
company. This is because Mr Ms complaint is brought against only Halifax here.
Ive looked at Halifaxs privacy policy on their website. Section 13 shows that information can 
be shared between the companies in their banking group. So Im persuaded that the only 
conceivable way that Halifax would have Mr Ms ex-wifes address, which Mr M says he has 
never lived at, is by another company in the banking group having this address. Mr M still 
has an active joint account with his wife. This is not with Halifax, but with another company in 
their banking group. So its probable that the other bank received information about either 
party on the account (which section four of the privacy policy sets out who they can receive 
information from). And based on the information they updated the address on the account. 
This could be a slight alteration to the address for the other account holder, but whoever has 
made the alteration appears to have also altered the address for both parties, when they 
shouldnt have updated Mr Ms address. Mr M may want to speak to his joint current account 
provider to ensure the address for him is correct given that he has told us he does not 
receive statements from them, and he doesnt have access to their app.
In Halifaxs final response to Mr M they mentioned they use a number of systems. So its 
probable that if an error was made with the other company which used a shared system then 
this is how Mr Ms address was automatically changed. As Halifax have confirmed they have 
different systems, this would explain how it appears that Mr M would receive some 
correspondence with his correct address still and some correspondence shows his ex-wifes 
address. I put this theory to Halifax about what Im persuaded happened regarding the 
address change. I asked them to confirm if they disagreed with anything that I had said. 
They told me that they do not disagree with anything that Id said. So Im persuaded what 
Ive set out above is the most likely thing that has happened.I have seen proof that the address was changed to the incorrect address on 18 December 
2021. I know Mr M disputes this as he has received correspondence from Halifax which 
contained his correct address in June 2022. Mr M has sent us a screenshot from his secured 
inbox. So Ive looked to see if there was any correspondence after December 2021 sent to 
him but before his statement on 8 June 2022. There was only one document, which was 
changes to his online banking agreement. I asked Mr M if he could send me this document, 
which he kindly did. This document shows the incorrect address also, so Im satisfied that 
what has happened here is that his address was changed in December 2021, but it wasnt 
changed on all of the systems Halifax use. This is why there is some correspondence after 
December 2021 with his correct address showing, and some with his incorrect address 
showing. 
Ive considered the events that occurred when Mr M informed Halifax that his address was 
incorrect. I asked Halifax for a copy of the call recordings when Mr M informed them of the 
address change and his calls to them after this. They located five recordings, which Ive 
summarised the relevant information below. 
On the initial call, the call handler confirms there are no notes to suggest how the address 
had been changed. But she offers to change the address back to the correct address and 
raise a complaint for Mr M. She confirms she has changed the address back to the correct 
address. So Mr M was set an expectation here that the address had been correctly changed 
and this would prevent mail going to his ex-wifes address. But the call handler failed to 
change his address on all of Halifaxs systems. As Mr M registered for voice identification on 
the same day, the confirmation of this showed the incorrect address, due to the change of 
address not being changed on all of their systems. 
As the call handler had managed to change Mr Ms address on one of the systems, this is 
what triggered the correspondence on 3 October 2022  the same day of the call. I know Mr 
M thinks this was sent out as a result of his complaint, but Im not persuaded by this. Halifax 
have confirmed that when an address is changed then a letter should be sent to the old and 
new address. So that is why it went to the incorrect address also. But Im persuaded that if 
this happened in December 2021, and that a letter was sent to both addresses, then Mr M 
would have been able to inform Halifax much sooner than when he realised the address had 
been changed in the app. 
On the second call, which was a week after the complaint was registered, Mr M informed the 
call handler the address hadnt been changed. The call handler says she will note that on the 
complaint. But despite Mr M informing her that the address is wrong and his clear 
frustrations that his post could be going to his ex-wifes address, the call handler does not 
either look to change the address herself, or if she was unable to do this, then it would be 
reasonable to expect her to transfer Mr M to a call handler that could change his address. 
This would be the minimum I would have expected Halifax to do here given the 
circumstances which Mr M made clear to the call handler. 
Mr M rang Halifax on 25 October 2022 and spent slightly over an hour on the phone with 
them. He told the call handler that the address on his account was still incorrect. The call 
handler confirmed to Mr M that he would definitely get this resolved for him on a number of 
occasions and told Mr M that he came through to the right call handler. The call handler tells 
Mr M that he will go away to get this resolved. He tells Mr M that his address could be 
changed within a minute. But the call handler explains he is unable to change the address 
due to a higher level of security that he came through on the call, but he can change it if Mr 
M calls through the app or uses voice identification. The call handler says that he will get a 
call back and the expectation is set for hours or days time. But it was nearly two weeks later 
when Halifax gave him a call back.Mr M tells the call handler about the difference of address from 28 July 2022. The call 
handler tells Mr M that he is in contact with another team while they are listening to the calls 
that he has had with them. But Im not persuaded that Mr M should have been kept on the 
line while this happened. He had already been told that the team were looking into matters 
and given that Mr M had already been on the phone for nearly 40 minutes by this point, Im 
persuaded he was inconvenienced by being on hold while another team listened to calls, 
which in reality would not explain why the address was changed originally in December 
2021. I say this because there appears to have been no calls which changed the address. 
So instead, Halifax must have been listening to calls where he made his complaint on 3 
October 2022 and the call handler had failed to change his address on all of their systems. 
The call handler then tells Mr M that our service has been contacted and we will be aware of 
his concerns. But this information was incorrect. The call handler says Mr M will need to call 
them back to get the address changed. I can see the address was changed for the last time 
to the correct address within the following day of this call. 
A complaint handler rings Mr M on 7 November 2022 after Mr M had called Halifax earlier in 
the day. The complaint handler rings Mr M back the following day and he explains that there 
is no explanation of how the address had been changed and confirms the address wasnt 
changed over the phone or via the app.
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint and whether the £250 that 
Halifax paid Mr M is reasonable for what happened here, but Im not persuaded that it is. Im 
persuaded that an extra £200 to total £450 compensation would be fair and reasonable for 
what happened here. While Mr M may think this is not enough compensation based on what 
he charges in his profession on an hourly basis, I must explain to him that our awards are 
not designed to punish a business or to make it change the way it acts in order to protect 
other customers in the future. That is the role of the regulator. Compensation is a 
discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted 
wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and 
above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is 
often modest and within our established guidelines. 
Theres no doubt that Halifax have let Mr M down here on multiple occasions. His address 
was changed to an incorrect address which went unnoticed for nearly ten months. While 
Halifax have told us his settings were set to paperless, it appears that there are certain 
documents which could be posted. And Mr M has confirmed that his ex-wife did receive 
posted correspondence. Im persuaded that an incorrect change of address would have a 
big impact on a person. But for this to be changed to his ex-wifes address would magnify 
the impact this would have on somebody. While Ive seen no full account numbers or 
detailed financial information on the correspondence that went to the incorrect address, this 
would still not fully mitigate the impact that this would have on somebody, especially given 
the length of time since Mr M had been divorced. 
While Im persuaded that a genuine error was made on the first phone call to put things right 
in changing the address, the call handler did not change the address on all of the systems 
and as such destroyed trust between Mr M and Halifax, leading him to doubt what Halifax 
were telling him, when he found out on the app that the address was still the same. The 
second caller who he spoke to kept saying she couldnt take ownership of the complaint, and 
while this may have been the case, Im persuaded that she certainly could have looked into 
changing the address there and then. The complaint did not have to be resolved to ensure 
that his address was correct.
Im also persuaded that because of Mr Ms frustration on the third call on 25 October 2022, 
that the call handler genuinely wanted to help resolve Mr Ms complaint. But in doing so he made promises that he couldnt keep - such as telling Mr M he would definitely be able to 
resolve the issue (when he didnt), or by telling Mr M that he would get a call back in hours or 
days (which theres no evidence this happened until nearly two weeks later), or by telling Mr 
M that his complaint had been passed to our service directly (which it hadnt). He kept Mr M 
on the phone while the team he was talking to listened to his previous phone calls. Im 
satisfied that there was no good reason for this to happen. While the intentions may have 
been well placed to help Mr M here, what happened was more counterproductive and fuelled 
Mr Ms distrust of Halifax after all of the incorrect information given here. 
Mr M had been inconvenienced by being kept on the phone for hours with Halifax. Some of 
this time is when he didnt need to be  especially the call on 25 October 2022, which was 
just over an hour long (excluding any time he had on hold before the call was answered). 
And he was inconvenienced by having to ring Halifax back when the call handlers hadnt 
done what they said they would do. If a letter had been sent to the old and new address in 
December 2021 when the address was changed, like this happened in October 2022, when 
the call handler incorrectly managed to change the address. And on 7 November 2022, 
when the complaint handler ensured all of the systems were updated, then this could have 
been amended many months earlier. So Im persuaded that an extra £200 compensation is 
fair and reasonable for the impact that the multiple errors would have had on him, including 
Halifax allowing his address to remain incorrect several weeks after he first told them about 
this, despite having the chance on more than one occasion to rectify this. So it follows I 
intend to ask Halifax to put things right here.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask Bank 
of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr M an extra £200 compensation to total £450 for 
distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr M an extra 
£200 compensation to total £450 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman