DRN-4441434
The complaint
Mr V says Apple Retail UK Limited mis-sold him a mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr V bought a phone in store. At the same time he took he took out 
insurance through Apple in relation to it. He subsequently made a claim on the policy as his 
phone had been stolen but was told the policy only covered accidental damage. 
Mr V said when he took out the policy hed been told it did cover theft and loss and thought 
Apple should cover the cost of a replacement device. Apple said it believed it would have 
been made clear to Mr V in store what the policy covered. And in any case the written 
information about the policy he was then provided with explained what it did and didnt cover. 
Our investigator said while he couldnt be sure what was said in store, the policy information 
made clear the policy only covered accidental damage. And he was satisfied that information 
had been provided to Mr V when he took the policy out. He didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr V didnt agree. He said hed been told in store the policy would cover theft and loss and 
the store manager had told him this was a common misunderstanding. So I need to reach a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Apple says it didnt provide Mr V with advice about taking out this product and I havent seen 
anything to suggest otherwise. So, under the relevant rules, it didnt need to ensure the 
policy was suitable for him. But it did need to provide Mr V with clear, fair and not misleading 
information so he could decide for himself itself if the policy was right for him.
I think the information about the policy would have made clear to Mr V what it covered. The 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says it provides cover for accidental 
damage and the policy does not cover your Apple device for loss or theft The terms and 
conditions of the policy say (in bold on the first page) that it does not cover You for loss or 
theft of Your device. And I understand thats information which was made available to Mr V 
when he took the policy out. 
I appreciate Mr V recalls being told in store the policy would cover him for theft and loss. 
However, Apple says its employees complete ongoing training in the product which includes 
the scope of coverage and sales activities are periodically monitored for compliance with 
this. That doesnt of course mean the sales representative couldnt have said something 
different in this case but Im mindful of the fact Mr V hasnt provided any further details of this 
conversation such as who he spoke to or exactly what was said. And while he says the store 
manager told him this was a common misunderstanding, I dont think thats the same as 
accepting hed been given the wrong information in this case. 
In any event I think the other information about the policy Mr V was provided with (and which 
Ive already referenced) would in any case have made clear what the scope of its coverage 
was. If Mr V didnt think that met his needs it would have been open to him to raise that with 
Apple and seek alternative cover with it or elsewhere if that was something he wanted. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman