DRN-3156080
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim on their pet 
insurance policy following an accidental pregnancy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F said their pet fell pregnant after slipping its leash. Their vet dealt with the birth. 
But when Mr and Mrs F submitted a claim to Fairmead it was declined - even though theyd 
been told it would be covered when they first reported the claim. Fairmead said breeding 
wasnt covered under the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs F understand that. But they dont feel accidental pregnancy is the same as 
breeding. And theyve confirmed it was their pets first pregnancy. So they want Fairmead to 
settle their claim.
Fairmead apologised that Mrs F had wrongly been told that her claim would be covered. The 
adviser had told Mrs F the cover would continue if there had been an accidental pregnancy. 
But any second accidental pregnancy would be classed as breeding. And any claim would 
be declined due to the breeding exclusion in the pet insurance policy.
Although Fairmead felt itd correctly declined the claim it recognised Mr and Mrs F hadnt 
received a high standard of service. And it paid them £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs F werent satisfied with Fairmeads response. So they contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the insurance documents. But she felt 
the exclusion relied on by Fairmead suggested the first accidental pregnancy wasnt classed 
as breeding. 
The pets records showed this was the first time the pet had become pregnant. So our 
investigator felt a reasonable interpretation of the policy wording meant that the treatment 
shouldnt be excluded. And Fairmead should reconsider Mr and Mrs Fs claim.
Fairmead didnt agree with our investigator. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
Fairmead said it was clear that the policy wasnt designed to cover animals used for 
breeding. 
And if a pet has more than one accidental pregnancy it would void the policy, as it would 
class the pet as being used for breeding. It felt that breeding was a common term which was 
easily understood to mean the mating and production of offspring by animals.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr and Mrs F have experienced. So Ive looked 
carefully at the pet insurance policy documents to decide if Fairmead has applied the 
breeding exclusion fairly when declining Mr and Mrs Fs claim.
Fairmead says breeding is a common term relating to mating and pregnancy and didnt 
require any further definition in the policy. And it believes the policy document made it clear 
that any costs related to pregnancy are excluded by the breeding clause. 
The policy excludes costs for any treatment relating to or resulting from breeding your pet 
and any complications that may occur as a result of these procedures. And the policy 
further states in the what is not covered section any pets used for breeding (any more than 
one accidental pregnancy would be classed as breeding).
But theres a difference between breeding your pet  as stated in the policy document and 
implying a degree of action, and your pet breeding  which would fit more with the typical 
dictionary definition of how animals create offspring. Some pets may fall accidentally 
pregnant through breeding. However other pet owners may choose to deliberately breed 
their pets to produce offspring  often for sale  and thats not something thats normally 
covered by a pet insurance policy. 
In Fairmeads response to our investigators view, it stated that the policy wasnt designed to 
cover animals used for breeding. But thats not what happened here. The pet slipped the 
leash and accidentally became pregnant. The pet wasnt used for breeding. The pregnancy 
was accidental. There was no intention for the animal to become pregnant. 
As the policy doesnt clearly define breeding or pregnancy and the owners havent made any 
conscious decision to breed their pet I dont think its unreasonable to say an accidental 
pregnancy should not be considered the same as breeding. It follows that the costs 
associated with an accidental pregnancy shouldnt be declined by reference to the breeding 
exclusion containing in the pet insurance policy.
The policy document contains a list of excluded pets including any pets used for breeding 
(any more than one accidental pregnancy would be classed as breeding). This certainly 
implies that the first accidental pregnancy wouldnt be classed as breeding by Fairmead.
Fairmead has highlighted that the same section states there is no cover for any 
injury/illness/treatment resulting from or relating to breeding, whelping or kittening. And the 
treatment for whelping the pets pups is therefore excluded anyway.
Ive carefully considered Fairmeads response. Whelping is the process of a dog giving birth 
to puppies. Its something most dogs would be able to do without difficulty or need for 
treatment. And the policy sentence follows on as part of the bullet point relating to pets used 
for breeding. It isnt a separate point relating to all pets.
Regardless of how this might be interpreted, in this case the vet treatment is related to the 
birth of puppies by c-section rather than whelping. And I dont think it would be fair for 
Fairmead to exclude Mr and Mrs Fs claim on that basis.
If Fairmead had intended to exclude any costs relating to the treatment of pet pregnancy, 
regardless of how itd occurred, it couldve simply said that in the policy documents. 
But thats not what the policy states. And Im not convinced that Fairmead has applied the 
terms of the policy correctly and fairly in this instance. 
The pets records confirm that this was the first pregnancy. And the pregnancy was 
accidental and not related to breeding purposes. So I think Fairmead should reconsider 
Mr and Mrs Fs claim.Putting things right
I can see that Mr and Mrs F have already settled the vets invoice for the treatment. So to put 
things right Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs F the sum of £1094.45 and it should add 
interest of 8% starting from the date of 15 February 2021 when it gave incorrect advice until 
the date of payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Fairmead Insurance Plc should provide the 
redress set out above in putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman