DRN-1596246
The complaint
G Ltd, represented by Mr S, complained about the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank 
PLC offered for an error about a standing order.
Lloyds paid G Ltd £200 for inconvenience, but Mr S wants £3,000 to £4,000.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr S asked a Lloyds branch to set up a standing order from his business 
account, G Ltd. It was for £1,000, to start on 30 April, and then monthly in the middle of each 
month. The payment was to go to another financial organisation.
The first payment debited G Ltds account on 30 April. But it was returned to G Ltds account 
the same day, because the account details which branch had entered when setting up the 
standing order were incorrect. 
The standing orders for 16 May, 17 June, 16 July, 16 August, 16 September and 16 October 
were all debited to G Ltds account, but credited back the same day, because the account 
details were still wrong.
On 28 October, Mr S complained to Lloyds:
- He said hed lost 5% interest on the money which should have gone to the other 
financial institution;
- He wanted to know why Lloyds hadnt told him about the error;
- He complained that hed visited the branch three times, and had been passed 
around, and kept waiting, which meant hed lost income;
- He felt he should have been asked to go to a private room, not discuss the matter in 
the open in the branch;
- The branch manager had promised to ring him back and hadnt;
- As a result of the error, his account with the other financial organisation had gone 
overdrawn by £3,000 and he would be charged for that;
- He was a private and business customer and should have been treated better.
Lloyds apologised that an error had been made when the standing order was set up at the 
branch. But it said that G Ltds statements clearly showed that all the payments had left the 
account, and then been returned to the account. Lloyds said it was important to check 
statements as soon as they were received, and then advise the bank of any problems.
The bank also said that most customers were happy to discuss their accounts in the banking 
area, but if Mr S wasnt, he should make bank staff aware of this, so they could try to 
accommodate his request. Lloyds also said that the branch manager had tried several times 
to ring Mr S but hadnt been able to get through.
Lloyds paid G Ltd a total of £200, but Mr S wasnt satisfied and said he wanted £3,000 to 
£4,000. He complained to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold G Ltds complaint. She explained that customers have a 
responsibility to ensure their accounts are being managed correctly. Mr S had told the 
investigator that hed checked the statements, and the investigator considered that the 
statements should have alerted Mr S to the error. She considered Lloyds offer of £200 
compensation was fair. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied. He said hed received monthly statements from Lloyds, but they clearly 
showed an entry for £1,000 debit and £1,000 credit each month.  He said he had no cause 
for concern until he received a letter from the other financial organisation to which the money 
should have gone. 
Mr S set out what had happened at his visits to the Lloyds branch in October. He said that it 
was the bank staff who should have seen the error initially, and should have brought it to his 
attention. He said they were the ones who were trained in banking and were responsible for 
customers accounts.
Mr S said that hed incurred much inconvenience, anxiety and worry, and had suffered loss 
of income, and loss of interest from the other financial organisation. He believed the 
investigator hadnt considered his loss of income, loss of interest, and suffering, and asked 
for an Ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds accepted that its branch staff made an error in entering the standing order details in 
April 2019. So this decision is about what would be fair and reasonable compensation for 
what happened.
When we consider compensation, we look at financial loss, and non-financial loss.
Financial loss
G Ltds monthly £1,000 payment was returned to the account the same day. So there was 
no financial loss to G Ltds Lloyds account.
Mr S has argued that there was a financial loss because he lost interest on the account to 
which the money should have been sent. Hes also argued that it was for Lloyds staff to spot 
the error and notify him. But its reasonable to expect customers to check statements, 
especially when setting up something new, like a standing order.
Mr S told us that he did check the statements, and that they showed the £1,000 had been 
debited and credited, so he had no cause for concern. I find that surprising. If Mr S checked 
G Ltds statements, Id have expected him to be concerned to see the money being returned 
each month. Ive borne in mind that Mr S has a responsible job, so I consider its unlikely that 
he was unable to understand a bank statement.
I also consider its likely that Mr S would also have had the opportunity of checking his 
account with the other financial organisation, and could have seen that the monthly £1,000 
wasnt being credited.
As Mr S should have realised before October that there had been an error, I find that Lloyds 
was not liable for any overdraft charges or loss of interest on Mr Ss account with the other 
financial organisation.Mr S has also argued that his loss of income should be taken into account. He said that the 
visits to branches took several hours of his time. But we all suffer some inconvenience in our 
day-to-day lives and our dealings with commercial organisations, and we dont award 
compensation on the basis of an hourly rate. 
So I find that no payment is due to G Ltd for financial loss.
Non-financial loss
This service considers the impact of an error on a consumer: for example the distress and 
inconvenience caused by an error. However, a limited company cant, by definition, suffer 
distress, and we dont compensate the company directors personally. 
A limited company can, however, experience inconvenience. So Ive considered the extent 
to which G Ltd was inconvenienced by Lloyds error.
I accept that it was inconvenient that Mr S had to contact Lloyds to get the error put right. 
And hes told us that the branch didnt sort it out when he first contacted them. 
But I cant attribute to Lloyds the inconvenience of sorting out the recipient financial account, 
with the overdraft and charges. Thats because the inconvenience would have been minimal 
if Mr S had raised the problem when the first payment was shown on his bank statement in 
April.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that Lloyds payment of £200 compensation 
was more than fair. I dont require Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold G Ltds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman