DRN-2633365
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly declined his claim for 
legal expenses insurance.
Aviva uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses insurance policy on its behalf, so 
any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries. 
What happened
Mr B is a judge of the Senior Courts of England and Wales and holds a legal expenses 
insurance policy with Aviva that covers him for employment disputes. He sits in the higher 
courts pursuant to section 9 of the Senior Courts Act 1981 and claims that the failure of the 
Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and Lord Chancellor to pay an additional sum for this work 
amounts to a breach of the Part Time Worker (Prevention of Less Favourable Treatment) 
Regulations 2000. For ease of reference, Ill refer to Mr Bs legal claim as a section 9 claim 
throughout the rest of this decision.
Mr B is represented in this matter by his solicitor  Leigh Day  who represent a number of 
other judges bringing section 9 claims in the Employment Tribunal. He approached Aviva for 
assistance in funding his employment dispute using his legal expenses policy. The solicitor 
arranged for the claim to be funded under a cost share proposal (CSP), whereby the cost of 
the litigation would be split equally between all of the section 9 claimants represented by 
Leigh Day  meaning that all claimants have the potential to benefit equally for work 
undertaken on the claim (either by the solicitor, or advocacy by counsel on the groups 
behalf, for example).
Aviva declined the claim, however, as it said the policy does not provide cover for legal costs 
for:
disputes relating to class actions e.g. if you are part of a group of people who are all 
making the same claim.
The insurer said that Mr Bs employment dispute was related to a class action, as he was 
part of a group of people making the same section 9 claim, meaning it was therefore 
excluded. 
Mr B complained that Aviva had acted unfairly, as he does not consider his claim to be part 
of a class action. In summary, he submits:
Class actions were introduced by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) and 
are a specific legal concept existing in the Competition Appeal Tribunal  not the 
Employment Tribunal. They are brought by a single claimant on behalf of the whole 
class and must gain permission from the Competition Tribunal to proceed. However, 
in the section 9 litigation, each claimant will have their own individual claim against 
the MoJ/Lord Chancellor with their own individual claim number allocated by the 
Employment Tribunal. In this instance, there is no single or lead claimant bringing the 
claim on behalf of the group and every claimant has their own individual claim.
If the claim were successful, there would be no collective or single remedy applied to 
all those litigating the claim, as the damages paid would be specific to each individual 
claimant depending on their judicial sitting history  rather than a pot of money being 
distributed among those in the same group (as is the case with class actions). 
The insurer has used the Cambridge Dictionary definition of a class action (as legal 
action organised by a group of people who have suffered the same problem) which 
is incorrect as the concept already exists in English Law. It is not fair for the insurer to 
override or ignore the legal interpretation for the purposes of its exclusion. The fact 
that Leigh Day are choosing to simplify the funding process by using a CSP does not 
change the legal status of the claim, but rather makes it more cost effective.
The fact that other individuals are already bringing the same or similar claims does 
not make it a class action as there are often numerous incidents where individual 
claims have been litigated on similar or identical facts against the same respondent  
which are not defined as class actions or group claims. There is a clear legal 
distinction between a class action and a group of similar but individual claims which 
are being funded by way of a CSP for the benefit of litigants. Without a claim, there 
would be no redress.
The success of Mr Bs claim depends on the facts of his individual matter  i.e. 
whether the work he has personally carried out when sitting in the higher courts was 
equivalent to that of a High Court Judge. If this work is not deemed equivalent, his 
claim in the Employment Tribunal fails, whereas other judges claims on different 
facts might still succeed.
Leigh Day have had other claims covered by insurers in the past where there is a 
CSP. It cannot be right that another client pursuing a claim that is being managed as 
a group in a similar way can have their claim covered when Mr Bs is refused.
Aviva disagreed and continued to decline Mr Bs claim. It said:
The exclusion is applicable where the insured is in a group of people who are all 
pursuing the same opponent. Even if they pursue the matter separately, they are still 
part of a group of people with the same claim even if they are not with the same 
solicitor. And while the term class action doesnt necessarily mean what is intended 
in English law, the intention of the exclusion is to avoid covering large group claims.
In this instance, regardless of whether Mr B is joining a CSP, he will still be part of a 
group of people making the same claim and pursuing the same issue as others. The 
cost sharing members are its own group and part of a larger group of people all 
pursuing the same or a similar issue. They are making the same claim in substance 
rather than form  therefore the exclusion applies. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he was satisfied that Mr B could be 
considered as being part of a group of people making the same claim. So he didnt think 
Aviva had declined the claim unfairly. Mr B disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Mr B submits that a class action is a specific legal concept introduced by the Consumer 
Rights Acts 2015 (CRA 2015) and should therefore be construed as such. On the other 
hand, Aviva submit that the term should be construed in line with the specific example given 
in the policy wording as applying to claims that are being pursued as part of a group of other 
claims that relate to the same issue. 
When a court interprets a contract, it seeks to determine what a reasonable person would 
have understood the parties to have meant by the language used, where the reasonable 
person is taken to have all the background knowledge which would have been reasonably 
available to the parties at the time of the contract (see the judgment of Lord Hoffman in 
Chartbrook Ltd v Persimmon Homes Ltd [2009] UKHL 38). 
When a certain phrase (in the absence of any particular definition having been assigned to it 
by the contract) has a natural and ordinary meaning, it will generally be given that meaning 
by the courts. But where it has a technical meaning, it will usually be interpreted in 
accordance with its technical meaning unless the context or the policy wording has altered 
that meaning. 
I appreciate that the term class action does not have a widely understood natural or 
ordinary definition, and that it does have a specific technical meaning in English law 
(referring to collective proceedings being brought in the Competition Appeals Tribunal (CAT) 
for loss or damage caused by an infringement of competition law, as introduced by Schedule 
8 of the CRA 2015). However, in these circumstances, Aviva has included an example within 
the exclusion to help define what is meant by the term class action in the context of the 
insurance contract, thereby overriding any potential technical or natural meaning that may 
otherwise be attributed to the term. 
The example provided in the contract explains that the term class action is to be 
understood as a dispute being brought by someone that is part of a group of people who 
are all making the same claim. And given that the example definition it is part of the 
contract, this is what both parties are taken to have expressly agreed to construe the term in 
line with. Therefore, Im satisfied that this is what the reasonable person would have 
understood the parties to have meant by class action, over and above any other definition 
or technical meaning that can be assigned to it. 
Ive considered whether Mr B can reasonably be categorised as being part of a group of 
people who are all making the same claim. Leigh Day have said that no order has been 
made for a lead case to be selected under Rule 36 of the Employment Tribunal Rules of 
Procedure 2013, meaning the tribunals decision will not automatically be binding on all other 
cases. However, they have said that a case management order was made by the 
Employment Tribunal on 13 March 2020 confirming that the claims (including Mr Bs) would 
be combined and heard together for the sake of determining the generic issues relevant to 
liability. But this means that if the sample claimants are not successful in establishing liability 
on the generic issues, then this will seemingly have a knock-on effect for the other claims in 
the group and hinder their chances of succeeding. Likewise  if they are successful in 
establishing liability, then the generic issues that have already been decided by the Tribunal 
will not need to be considered in any other claims that may be put in front of it.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I understand that Leigh Days section 9 claims are 
expected to be pursued by a group of about 150 judges. All these claims relate to the fact that when the judges have acted up in the higher courts, they have not received additional 
pay over and above their usual salary, which they say is in breach of the Part Time Worker 
Regulation 2000. This is the claim that is ultimately being made by each judge, and although 
each of them has their own individual claim, they are nonetheless all being progressed 
together as a group by Leigh Day. Mr Bs claim is the same as all the other judges in that 
regard.
I appreciate that each claim may have its own individual claim number and own set of 
facts/nuances with regards to sitting history and damages being claimed etc. But its clear 
that each of the section 9 claims, in substance, are the same. And it appears that the 
general intention here is for the sample claims to be heard first to deal with common issues 
that flow through all claims, rather than each case being heard individually on its own merit. 
So, on that basis, Im satisfied that Mr Bs claim can be considered as relating to a class 
action in line with the example definition set out in the policy terms and conditions.  
It follows that I consider Aviva is entitled to rely on the policy exclusion in these 
circumstances, and Im not persuaded it has declined Mr Bs claim unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman