DRN-3327149
The complaint
M complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) shouldnt have placed its 
order to purchase shares because the price had risen. This meant the shares cost more than 
the quote it received.
M is a limited company and the complaint is brought on its behalf by its director, who I will 
refer to as Miss X.
What happened
M has an execution only share dealing account with IISL. On 7 June 2021, Miss X placed an 
at best order online to purchase 4 shares in a company listed on the US stock exchange. Ill 
refer to the company as B.
When Miss X placed the order, trading in B had been suspended ahead of an expected 
announcement. The indicative price Miss X saw on IISLs website was based on the latest 
price before suspension. The order was dealt when trading resumed. But the price had risen 
in response to the announcement. Miss X was quoted US$286.14 per share, but they cost 
US$440 each.
This meant the trade cost around US$600 more than M expected.
IISL said the order was executed when the market reopened, and it didnt accept any liability 
for any loss suffered because of the delay in execution.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think IISL 
needed to tell M about the halt to trading, or to check whether M wanted to proceed when 
the halt was lifted. Overall the investigator couldnt conclude that IISL had acted unfairly.
M didnt agree. Miss X said, on its behalf and in summary, that:
IISL shouldnt have provided an indicative price whilst there was a trading halt. Other 
platforms will reject orders placed when trading is suspended.
There should be an obligation on IISL to ensure the order execution price is within a 
reasonable range of the indicative price.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that my role is to resolve individual disputes between 
businesses and consumers. Miss X has raised questions about how IISLs systems and 
procedures may differ from other providers. But I dont have the power to tell a business how 
it should treat all customers or how it develops its policies and operating systems. Thats a 
matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I need to decide whether 
IISL acted fairly and reasonably in the individual circumstances here.
It's important to the outcome here that Ms account is an execution only account. When 
placing any orders, IISL was not obliged to give M any advice on the suitability or 
appropriateness of what it was doing. It was Ms responsibility to decide what it wanted to 
purchase, and when it wanted to do so. As part of that decision, I think M, in all likelihood, 
would have been aware of the imminent announcement; should reasonably have been 
aware that trading in the shares had been suspended; and that there was a widespread 
expectation that, when trading re-opened, the share price was likely to rise considerably. 
I dont find it was IISLs responsibility to draw any of this to Ms attention, because the 
service it provided was not an advisory one and it was reasonable to assume M had carried 
out its own research before placing the order. I think M should have been aware of the risk 
that the price it had to pay for the shares would be considerably higher than the indicative 
price it received when it placed the order.
The indicative price M received would have been the price before trading was suspended. 
I dont think thats unreasonable. And when M was given the indicative price, Im satisfied 
that a warning was displayed saying, Please note that your order will be dealt as soon as 
possible at the best available price, which may differ from the indicative price shown above. 
I appreciate what Miss X says  that you wouldnt expect the indicative price to be that 
dissimilar from the order price. But there are circumstances where it may vary considerably, 
such as when an order is place outside of market opening hours; or in the circumstances 
here, where an order was placed when trading in the shares had been suspended. I dont 
find there was any obligation on IISL, as an execution only broker, to provide M with a more 
specific warning about the indicative price.
Ive also considered IISLs terms and conditions. And in particular clause 3.5 which says:
When we accept your order, we will use reasonable endeavours to carry it out. However, 
we will not be liable to you for any loss or expense you suffer if we are unable to carry out an 
order for whatever reason (other than as a result of our negligence, fraud or wilful default) or 
where there is a delay or change in market conditions before the transaction is completed.
I find IISL reasonably accepted an at best order, and it was dealt as soon as practicable 
after trading recommenced in the shares. There was a delay in the order being dealt 
because trading had been suspended. And market conditions changed  the price of B 
shares rose in response to its announcement (which was expected). So I find the terms do 
cover what happened here and Im satisfied that IISL is not responsible for any loss M thinks 
its made because of this change in conditions.
M placed an at best order and should have reasonably known that trading in the shares was 
suspended and that the price was likely to rise considerably on re-opening. I dont think it 
was IISLs responsibility to limit Ms losses by cancelling the trade. Or contacting M to let it 
know the change in price, which would have delayed the deal. It follows that I dont find IISL 
needs to compensate M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth DawesOmbudsman