DRN-3656544
The complaint
Mr L complains about the length of time it took Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd (VM) 
to transfer his ISA to another provider. He says VM was responsible for 15 weeks delay 
which resulted in him losing out financially and hes seeking compensation for this loss. Mr L 
also said he found all the delays and the chasing calls and messages hugely stressful during 
a difficult time and he wants compensation to reflect this as well. 
What happened
Mr L had a stocks and shares ISA with VM. When VM notified him that changes it planned to 
make would result in charges to Mr L, he decided to move to a new provider which he felt 
offered him more attractive investment options at lower cost. He said VM had ample time to 
complete the transfer before these charges would impact on him as it should not have taken 
more than 30 days. 
Mr L signed the authority requesting the transfer on 11 August 2021 but told us it wasnt 
completed until 27 November 2021. He says that VM was responsible for numerous delays 
which it blamed on others. And during the time it took to complete the transfer, he lost out 
because the funds he wanted to invest in with his new provider gained in value and 
meanwhile he incurred extra costs because he was still with VM. 
VM said it received the transfer request from Mr Ls new provider on 30 September 2021 
and it responded on 5 October 2021 with the valuation required to start the transfer, but 
unfortunately this never reached Mr Ls new provider. VM re-sent the valuation on 
10 November 2021 enabling Mr Ls new provider to progress the transfer. 
Mr L referred his concerns about the way VM had handled the transfer request to this 
service and one of our investigators looked into what had happened. Whilst he 
acknowledged that VM could sometimes have been more proactive, our investigator didnt 
feel he could hold VM responsible for the delay. He said the first contact VM had was on 
30 September 2021, possibly because Mr Ls new provider had misdirected the transfer 
request. And when Mr L had made VM aware on 26 October 2021 that his new provider was 
still waiting for the valuation it needed, VM had arranged for a duplicate to be sent, this time 
by recorded delivery. Subsequently, when VM received a response from Mr Ls new 
provider, it had processed this the next working day enabling the transfer to complete. So 
the investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld.
Mr L didnt agree. He said, in brief summary, that:
VMs version of the timeline of events essentially presented things in a better light but 
it hadnt provided any proof that letters were originally sent
it had still taken VM 15 days to resend a duplicate letter which, knowing how 
important the matter was to Mr L who had by then complained about the delay, it 
could have emailed with the necessary information immediately
VM knew his new provider could not complete the transfer without a valuation and 
yet it refused to send the information electronically and instead chose to write
Mr L feels that VM was not motivated to limit avoidable delays during the transfer 
process as it stood to benefit from fees it was able to charge  Mr L put it this way: 
It appears to me VM wanted to transfer funds internally before allowing people to 
leave their company.
So as the complaint hasnt yet been resolved, it comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain my 
reasons. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr L feels about this complaint. I want to assure him that Ive 
carried out an independent review and considered everything both parties have told me. We 
provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues 
I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention 
everything Mr L has brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of his concerns in my 
own words. But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint and try and deal with his main points of concern.  
I will focus in my decision on Mr Ls core complaint concerning the delays that occurred 
during this transfer. The investigator has mentioned already that if Mr L feels he has further 
cause for complaint then he should first tell VM what his concerns are, so it has an 
opportunity to respond. If he still feels unhappy after that, he may be able to bring a new 
complaint to this service. I cant award redress for any complaint where the financial 
business hasnt first been given a chance to put things right.  
My role is to consider the evidence presented and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the specific facts of the particular case. So I have just 
looked at what happened to Mr L and Im not going to comment on wider concerns hes 
mentioned about the way VM deals with customers generally. 
Mr L is frustrated by VMs reliance on using the post rather than email. But how businesses 
choose to operate, their internal systems and the services they offer are matters that come 
under the oversight of the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So what Mr L 
says about VM refusing to send information electronically isnt a sufficient reason for me to 
uphold his complaint. 
Its my understanding that the relevant account terms and conditions say VM will try to 
complete a requested ISA transfer by the customers chosen date and within 30 days. Im 
mindful that theres also an expectation that ISA transfers should generally complete within 
30 days or so and it is good industry practice for the acquiring provider to check with the old 
provider if nothing is heard within 10 days. 
Its clear there was a significant delay at the start of the process. Mr L signed the transfer 
request form on 11 August 2021 and it took 7 weeks for this to be received by VM. Im aware 
that Mr L holds VM responsible for this. But its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. I must be impartial. 
VM told Mr L that it looked like his new provider had sent the valuation request to a different 
and separate part of the organisation that included VMs business and said initially it had been forwarded on to VM. Later on, VM told us that it had probably been returned to sender 
through the post. But whatever happened to the original valuation request, it makes no 
overall difference. I am satisfied that the balance of the evidence Ive seen supports what 
VM said about it not having received any communication from Mr Ls new provider until 
30 September 2021 when it received the valuation request. So I dont find that VM was 
responsible for delay prior to this.
And despite what Mr L says, Ive no good reason to think that VM didnt send the valuation, 
correctly addressed to Mr Ls new provider on 5 October 2021. This was within four working 
days, which I consider was a reasonable timescale. 
When VM was made aware that Mr Ls new provider hadnt received the valuation, it re-sent 
this by recorded delivery on 10 November 2021. I can appreciate why Mr L thinks this 
shouldve happened more quickly but I dont think that VM added unreasonably to the overall 
time taken for this matter to complete, bearing in mind that VM had already sent the 
information once before and the onus was on Mr Ls new provider to manage the transfer 
request. 
VM processed the transfer quickly and efficiently when it received the final communication 
from Mr Ls new provider.
To sum up, until VM received Mr Ls transfer authority from the new provider and the new 
provider received VMs valuation of Mr Ls ISA the transfer couldnt go ahead. The delays 
that occurred were very unfortunate. But Im satisfied overall that VM did what it was 
required to do to give effect to the transfer within broadly reasonable timescales, in line with 
its terms and conditions and as I would reasonably expect it to do. 
I certainly dont doubt that this was all very stressful for Mr L  its clear that from his point of 
view the transfer took a lot longer than he expected and the delay was understandably a 
very real concern to him. But as I dont find that VM did anything wrong that led to the delay 
in the transfer, and I havent seen enough to be able to say that VM treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably, I cant award the compensation Mr L would like me to.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr L but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman