DRN-3398219
The complaint
Mr K complains that PSA Finance UK Limited has terminated the hire purchase agreement 
under which a car had been supplied to him and about the adverse information that it has 
recorded on his credit file.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr K under a hire purchase agreement with PSA Finance that he 
electronically signed in February 2020. He contacted PSA Finance about the financial 
difficulties that he was experiencing as a result of the government imposed restrictions in 
response to the pandemic and a payment break was agreed. A payment was then missed 
and a payment plan was agreed in March 2021 but the first payment under that plan wasnt 
made so a default notice was issued to Mr K. Another payment plan was agreed but the first 
payment under that plan wasnt made. Mr K made a payment in June 2021 which was 
credited to the arrears on his account and no other payment was made for June 2021. 
PSA Finance sent e-mails to Mr K in May and June 2021 asking him to urgently contact it 
but he didnt do so and it sent him a termination notice. The agreement was terminated in 
June 2021 and the car was collected from Mr K and sold at auction. Mr K complained to PSA 
Finance that he hadnt seen the e-mails which had gone to his spam folder and he hadnt 
received the notices that had been sent to him.
PSA Finance said that it was satisfied from the conversations and correspondence with Mr K 
that he was aware of the arrears on his agreement but failed to ensure that the payments 
were fulfilled. It said that there was no fault by PSA Finance and it had followed its 
procedures. Mr K wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She felt that PSA 
Finance had acted fairly and reasonably to Mr Ks financial difficulties, she didnt think that it 
was responsible for the payment plans being unsuccessful and she thought that Mr K ought 
to have reasonably been aware that his account could default which could result in the 
agreements termination. She didnt think that it had behaved unfairly by terminating the 
agreement, selling the car and asking Mr K to pay the shortfall and she found that it hadnt 
acted unfairly in applying the default to his account.
Mr K has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that PSA 
Finance is unable to prove that any letters were sent to his address, no correspondence was 
sent to him, it didnt phone him and it only sent him emails which went into his spam folder.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mr K had electronically signed the hire purchase agreement and had agreed to make 
47 monthly payments of £214.33 and a final payment of £3,645 for the car to be 
supplied to him;
I consider that it was clear that the agreement could be terminated and the car sold if 
Mr K didnt make those payments;
Mr K contacted PSA Finance about the financial difficulties that he was experiencing 
as a result of the government imposed restrictions in response to the pandemic and it 
agreed a payment break  I consider that to have been a fair and reasonable 
response to the issues that he was experiencing at that time;
Mr K didnt make the payment that was due in March 2021 and he contacted PSA 
Finance about the missed payment  it agreed a payment plan with him but he didnt 
make the first payment that was due under that payment plan;
a default notice was sent to Mr K and PSA Finance sent him an email asking him to 
contact it - he phoned it and explained that he wasnt able to make the payments due 
in March and April 2021;
Mr K didnt make the first payment that was due under that payment plan so PSA 
Finance sent further emails to Mr K in May and June 2021 but it received no contact 
from Mr K;
a payment was made in June 2021 which was credited to the arrears on the account 
and no other payment was received from Mr K for June 2021 so PSA Finance sent a 
termination notice to Mr K later that month, it then repossessed the car and it was 
sold at auction with Mr K liable for a shortfall of £2,813.11;
I consider that the two payment plans that were agreed by PSA Finance were a fair 
and reasonable response to Mr Ks financial difficulties in 2021  but he didnt make 
the first payment due under either of those plans and, after the payment of £239.64 
that he made in February 2021, he only made one other payment of £239.64 
between then and June 2021 when the agreement was terminated;
Mr K says that he didnt receive the letters that PSA Finance sent to him and that he 
didnt see the emails that it sent to him because they went to his spam folder  but 
PSA Finance has provided evidence to show that the letters were sent to him using 
the correct address so I consider it to be more likely than not that those letters were 
sent to him, even if he didnt receive them, and that in sending them to him PSA 
Finance had complied with the requirement to give those notices to him;
Mr K had agreed to make the monthly payments for the car and I consider that it was 
his responsibility to ensure that the payments were made and to contact PSA 
Finance if they were not  and I consider that Mr K was responsible for the emails 
that it sent to him going to his spam folder  that isnt something for which PSA 
Finance is responsible;
PSA Finance is required to record true and accurate information about Mr Ks 
payment history on his credit file  I consider that the information that it has recorded 
on his credit file is a true and accurate record of his payment history so Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to remove that 
information;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that PSA Finance has acted 
incorrectly in these circumstances and I consider that it has complied with the terms 
of the agreement and its procedures; andI find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require PSA Finance to reduce or 
waive any shortfall payment due from Mr K, to refund any payments to him, to pay 
him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
If the shortfall remains outstanding, I suggest that Mr K contacts PSA Finance to try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan for the amount that he owes to it. If he doesnt do so, I 
consider it to be likely that PSA Finance will take further action to recover that amount from 
him, to the extent that its legally entitled to do so. If hes experiencing financial difficulties, he 
should explain those difficulties to PSA Finance and its required to respond to them 
positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman