DRN-3953126
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about the service they received when they asked Everyday 
Financial Services Ltd (EFS) for assistance to re-mortgage their home. Over almost two 
years they received advice and communications from EFSs adviser, and believed that 
mortgage applications had been made, but subsequently discovered they werent. 
Mr and Mrs R are represented in their complaint, but for ease, I will reference all comments 
and actions as being theirs.
What happened
When the complaint was referred to this service, EFS set out why it didnt think it was liable 
to answer it. I looked into the circumstances of the events complained about, and I 
concluded that the acts and omissions Mr and Mrs R complained about were undertaken on 
behalf of EFS and so it was liable for the complaint made. 
Mr and Mrs R have told us that in late 2019 they approached a mortgage adviser (H), who 
had arranged their then existing mortgage, for assistance in releasing equity. The equity 
being released was to be used for home improvements. 
In December 2019 communications started regarding a mortgage application and 
Mr and Mrs R were told what evidence was needed to support an application, such as bank 
statements. They were also asked to pay an upfront fee for the service that would be 
provided. They have evidenced that they paid £495 on 23 December 2019. Mr and Mrs R 
believed a mortgage application was submitted around that time.
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs R have told us they were told the lender they had applied to had 
put everything on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Following this, theyve said they were 
told the lender had pulled out and they needed to apply to a different lender. New 
documentation was sent to Mr and Mrs R for signatures in July 2020. They were told that the 
application had been accepted and from early September 2020 Mr and Mrs R were being 
given confirmation that the advance had been paid out, but then issues had arisen to explain 
why the advance hadnt actually been made and the funds hadnt arrived in their account. At 
times, emails were forwarded to Mr and Mrs R to support the delays and problems.
By the start of March 2021, Mr and Mrs R had been told the money had been advanced four 
times. However, it was not until this point that there is any evidence that an application 
process was started. The application was declined at decision in principle stage and EFS 
was informed that was the case. However, Mr and Mrs R were told the following day that the 
mortgage would be advanced the next day. By the end of June 2021 Mr and Mrs R had been 
told at least six further times that the mortgage advance had been released and they would 
receive funds in their account within a few days.
On 5 July 2021 Mr and Mrs R sold their existing car and put a deposit down on a new one. 
Theyve told us that this was in reliance of the money from the re-mortgage coming through 
to pay for the purchase. They had last been told on 30 June 2021 the money was on its way. 
However, there was a problem with the car at its final inspection, which caused the purchase 
to fall through and the deposit to be refunded. 
On 26 July 2021 Mr and Mrs R found another car they wanted to buy and put down a deposit 
on it. However, theyve said that they were unable to buy the car as the money from the 
re-mortgage didnt arrive and they lost their deposit. The car dealership confirmed in late 
2022 that no contract to purchase the car was entered into by Mr and Mrs R. It also said that 
a few days after the deposit was paid, Mrs R called and cancelled the purchase as there had 
been a sudden change in their circumstances. It went on to say that Mrs R didnt ask for the 
deposit to be refunded, and the owner of the dealership now understood that this was 
because her and Mr Rs understanding was that the deposit was non-refundable. It is not 
clear whether the deposit would have been refunded if it had been requested in 2021, but it 
was confirmed it was not refundable at the time of the statement in 2022. 
Mrs R hired a car between 7 August and 11 August 2021. Mr and Mrs R have requested that 
these costs be refunded as the car was only hired because they had been unable to 
complete the purchase of the above car.
By the middle of August 2021 H had offered to lend Mr and Mrs R money himself  they 
declined to accept it. They in turn asked for information about who H was talking to at both 
the new and existing lenders and a copy of their case file. Information was provided on 
16 August 2021, along with an apology for the mistakes and the stress Mr and Mrs R had 
been caused. 
In the meantime, on 12 August 2021 Mrs R emailed H using Mr Rs email address. She 
explained that Mr R was in hospital. She chased the information that had been promised and 
told H that all communication going forward should be made by email. There were further 
emails exchanged between H, Mrs R and their representative over the next week. 
Mr R was discharged from hospital on 16 August 2021. Two days later he has told us he had 
to make the journey to collect another car he had been able to source. Mr and Mrs R have 
told us they took out a car loan to pay for the car. Mr R has evidenced that H tried to call him 
that day, despite having been told communication should only be by email due to his health 
situation.
In August 2021 Mr and Mrs R asked us to look into their complaint. When they did so, they 
explained that due to the delays in obtaining a re-mortgage, the quotes for the home 
improvements had expired, and so they would need to pay more for those works when they 
were done. In addition, they had put down a deposit on a car based on the promises of 
money coming through, and had lost the deposit and the car when they couldnt complete 
the purchase. Also, they told us that Mr R had become seriously ill and been hospitalised 
due to the stress the situation with the re-mortgage caused him. Mr and Mrs R have also told 
us that despite asking that all correspondence from this point be by email, H continued to 
call and text Mr R. We forwarded details of the complaint to EFS.
During our investigation Mr and Mrs R confirmed that, while they knew the home 
improvements had cost them around £1,800 more than they had originally been quoted, they 
werent able to provide evidence of this. 
EFS denied responsibility for the events being complained about. As such we looked into the 
matter and I issued a decision on 30 June 2022 confirming that EFS was responsible for the 
complaint. Our investigator then went on to look into the merits of the complaint. She upheld 
it. In settlement she recommended that EFS reimburse Mr and Mrs R the lost car deposit, if 
it was evidenced that it was indeed lost, and pay them £900 for the upset and inconvenience 
they had suffered.In relation to the merits of the complaint, EFS highlighted that it hadnt known what H had 
been doing and the only things produced by it were decisions in principle, which didnt 
guarantee funds. It repeated its comments about it not being responsible for Hs actions and 
that the regulator had decided that, as it had severed ties with H, no further action was 
required. 
Mr and Mrs R accepted the investigators conclusions.
Our investigator considered what EFS said, but it didnt change her conclusions. EFS asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. It didnt make any further 
material comment on the merits of the complaint.
EFS wrote to Mr and Mrs R shortly thereafter and informed them that it had investigated their 
complaint and had concluded that, effectively, it was not responsible for the information and 
assurances H had sent to them from the email address linked to his previous company. It 
highlighted that H had never been an employee of EFS and he had undertaken the actions 
complained about outside of its offices. If any documents were produced by EFS they 
wouldnt constitute an assurance of funds and were produced without its knowledge.
Some further information was requested from Mr and Mrs R. It was also explained that if 
they wanted us to take account of Mr Rs illness when deciding compensation, they would 
need to provide further evidence that linked the illness with EFS acts and omissions. While 
they provided some further information about the actual illness, they confirmed that they 
wouldnt be providing anything further from Mr Rs medical practitioner about a link between 
the two things. 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 January 2023, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
At each stage of our process we review our jurisdiction to consider a complaint. Having 
done so, I remain satisfied that this is a complaint that falls within our jurisdiction and that it 
has rightly been set up against EFS.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is very clear that Mr and Mrs R were misled throughout in this case. Even to the point that 
emails from the purported lender were being fabricated to confirm the mortgage had been 
approved and was about to be paid out or had been paid out. Having read the email 
exchanges, I am satisfied that this caused Mr and Mrs R a lot of concerns and frustration, 
which they should be compensated for. They have also asked that various outgoings be 
reimbursed.
The first of these is the fee they paid for the service they had asked for. As I have said 
above, they have evidenced that this was requested, and they paid it on 23 December 2019. 
As the service Mr and Mrs R paid this money for was not provided, I am satisfied that this 
money should be reimbursed. As they have been deprived of the money for some time, 
interest* should be added from the date of payment to the date EFS makes settlement.
Mr and Mrs R have also asked that they be reimbursed for the car deposit they paid and lost 
at the end of July 2021. I have considered this matter carefully and I am not minded to make 
EFS reimburse them for this loss. Having considered the evidence that has been provided, it 
is not clear whether the deposit was non-refundable or whether it was not refunded because 
they didnt ask for it. Furthermore, I am also not persuaded that it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs R to have made financial commitments in reliance of money from the 
re-mortgage, given how many times over the preceding year theyd been told the money 
would be deposited in their account imminently only to not materialise.
The hire car costs that Mr and Mrs R have claimed for come about as a direct result of their 
actions to sell their existing car and being unable to replace it when expected. Given my 
findings above regarding the car purchase, as this cost comes about from that issue, I again 
dont consider that EFS is responsible for it being incurred.
Mr and Mrs R have also said that the costs of the home improvements they wanted the 
equity release for increased over the period of the delay. If that were the case, then it is 
something that EFS should rightly pay. However, they have been unable to evidence this 
increase and so I cant make an award in this respect.
I now return to the matter of compensation. As I have detailed above, Mr and Mrs R have not 
provided evidence that Mr Rs illness was linked to the events being complained about here. 
So I cant factor that illness into the compensation payment I award as our investigator did. 
In addition, while I accept there was one telephone call after EFS was asked to only 
communicate by email, there is no evidence that there were multiple calls and texts as has 
been suggested. I would also comment that it wasnt unreasonable for EFS to continue to 
use Mr Rs email address for communication, as that was the email Mrs R was using to 
communicate with it. Overall, having carefully considered this matter, I think £750 is the 
appropriate amount to award in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs R accepted my provisional decision. They commented that they were unhappy 
with the attitude and continued denials of EFS.
EFS didnt accept my conclusions. It said the payment Mr and Mrs R made on 23 December 
2019 was not received by it and it assumed that the payment had been made to Hs previous 
company. As such, it didnt feel that it should have to refund that money. It said that, while it 
continued to refute the allegations it was willing to pay Mr and Mrs R £500 in full and final 
settlement if the part it played in the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
EFS has said that it didnt receive the money Mr and Mrs R paid in December 2019 after H 
was representing it. It hasnt provided any evidence of this. It has also said that it assumes 
that the payment was made to Hs previous company. Again there has been no evidence of 
this provided. However, given the things that happened in this case, I can believe it is 
possible that H took the money for services that EFS was to provide, and directed it 
elsewhere, effectively stealing the money from EFS.
As has been previously explained, the only business that H was allowed to provide regulated 
advice on behalf of at that time was EFS. As such, when accepting money for such services, 
he could only have been accepting it on behalf of EFS. If he did effectively steal the money 
from EFS, that is a matter for it to take up with H; Mr and Mrs R shouldnt be disadvantaged 
by the situation at EFS. As such. I remain satisfied that EFS should refund the money, with 
interest, that Mr and Mrs R paid on 23 December 2019.
I set out in my provisional decision that I considered that EFS should pay Mr and Mrs R £750 
for the delays, upset and frustration they had suffered. Nothing EFS has said has altered my 
conclusions in this regard.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of the complaint 
I order Everyday Financial Services Ltd to refund the £495 fee to Mr and Mrs R along with 
interest* from 23 December 2019 to the date of settlement. In addition, it should pay them 
£750 compensation for the upset and inconvenience they were caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount specified and from/to the 
dates stated. If Everyday Financial Services Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs R, it should tell them 
how much its taken off. It should also give them documentation evidencing the amount for 
use with HM Revenue & Customs.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman