DRN-2256685
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One has unfairly refused 
her claim brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to the 
purchase of a vehicle. She wants a full refund of all costs.
What happened
Mrs O tells us that she gave her son a gift of a motor vehicle which was bought from a 
business Ill call L, in July 2018. Payment was made through her Capital One credit card. 
She says the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and the mileage had been 
misrepresented. She wants a full refund.
Capital One told us that the required debtor  creditor  supplier (d-c-s) link which was 
necessary for Section 75 to apply, wasnt present. It said the invoice from L was made out in 
the name of Mrs Os son. And that there was no contractual relationship (as required by 
Section 75) between L and Mrs O.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that as the 
required d-c-s link wasnt present she couldnt hold Capital One responsible.
Mrs O didnt agree and said that she considered there was the required link as she was the 
owner of the vehicle and had paid for it. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand that Mrs O would be upset and disappointed that the vehicle she paid for 
doesnt appear to have been of the standard she expected or which had been advertised.
At various stages in the complaint Mrs O has said she bought the vehicle as a gift for her 
son. But in her reply to the investigators view she described herself as the owner of the 
vehicle. I dont consider whether it is she or her son who is the owner of the vehicle actually 
affects the outcome of this complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont apply the law - directly  but I do take it into account. In some limited circumstances, 
Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim against the provider of finance as they would 
have against the supplier of the goods or services about which complaint is brought.
For Section 75 to be available to the consumer a number of conditions have to apply. There 
has to be an unbroken d-c-s link. And it requires there to have been a misrepresentation and 
/ or breach of contract by the supplier.
The invoice for the vehicle is made out in the name of Mrs Os son. And it appears to be her 
sons signature that appears under the title:  Purchasers Certificate of Examination. 
This item draws specific attention to a contractual issue relating to the inspection of the 
vehicle. By signing it Mr O is indicating that he is the contracting party.
Its not unusual for the party which pays for an item not to be the contracting party. And 
Section 75 relates to the contractual relationship between parties  not the ultimate 
ownership of the items purchased.
In this case the debtor is Mrs O, the creditor is Capital One and the supplier is L. But as the 
contractual link for the supply of the vehicle is between Mrs Os son and L, the required d-c-s 
link (which would need to show a contractual link between Mrs O and L) isnt present.
I accept that the legislation may appear complex and technical but I still have to take it into 
account. Here, the absence of the contractual relationship between Mrs O and L in the 
purchasing chain means that there is no valid Section 75 claim. And I find that Capital One 
was entitled to decline to uphold Mrs Os complaint on that basis.
I can see that Capital One also considered if chargeback provisions might have applied. 
But it correctly concluded that due to time limits having expired it couldnt take any action 
under those provisions.
I understand that Mrs O will be disappointed by my decision. But I would emphasise that Im 
not making any findings about whether or not she or her son may have a claim against L for 
alleged breach of contract and /or misrepresentation.
My decision is solely directed towards determining if Capital One has dealt with this 
complaint fairly. And Ive found that it was entitled to conclude that as the required d-c-s link 
wasnt present, it didnt have any liability under Section 75.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman