DRN-2390476
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has included hidden charges in its 
exchange rate which has resulted in a loss.
What happened
A had a client abroad that sent payments in euros to its sterling account. It was unhappy with 
the exchange rate that HSBC applied to convert the euros to sterling. And that HSBC would 
not disclose what its margin was. A said that the rates used were not fair.
HSBC explained in its final response that its exchange rates are based on the market mid 
rate for buying and selling currency. And that when A received currency it would receive an 
exchange rate above the mid rate. HSBC said that the larger the amount involved then the 
closer the conversion rate would be to the mid rate but that this would also reflect market 
liquidity at the time. All incoming funds are auto-priced by its systems which take these 
factors into account and this is set out in its terms and condition.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that there is no 
single exchange rate for a currency that banks must track or replicate. HSBC applies what it 
says is an HSBC Exchange rate as set out in its terms and conditions and that this changes 
constantly. The terms and conditions state that:
If you pay cash into your account which isn't in the same currency as your account, we'll
convert it into the currency of your account using the HSBC Exchange Rate at the time we
receive the cash.
So, she didnt think HSBC had made any mistake.
A did not agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It said that nowhere in the terms 
and conditions did HSBC define the margin or give the precise formula for calculating an 
exchange rate. It therefore considered that these were hidden fees. It wanted a 
reassessment of the complaint based on what is fair, just and common sense. A said that if it 
bought currency at a different business it was told the rate upfront and its now found a way 
of converting currency at much more favourable rates. A wanted this service to refund the 
fees it could have avoided and to compel HSBC to be more transparent about its hidden 
margins and publish these.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to say to A that this service is not the regulator. So, we dont have a role in reviewing 
how HSBC does business and to tell it what processes to follow and for example to publish 
how it calculates its prices. Or to say that it has to charge prices or set margins in line say 
with other financial businesses.
There are a number of specific points I do want to make here. First the foreign exchange 
market is dynamic, and prices change constantly. HSBC is providing a service by 
exchanging currency and A agreed to use this. And in using the service A was reasonably 
bound by the terms and conditions of the account.
HSBC can provide indicative rates and for example price a specific transaction to buy 
currency. Here A told its client to pay currency to a sterling account. Its expectation that the 
exchange of this would be at the mid or any particular spot rate was unfounded. If it could 
have received a better rate elsewhere then that was not the responsibility of HSBC. Here 
HSBC acted in line with its terms and conditions when it received the payment and applied 
the HSBC exchange rate at that time.
HSBC in the final response gave A an overview of the principles it follows in setting rates. 
For the reasons Ive already given I dont have a basis to require it to give any further 
explanation. But As own calculations as part of this complaint have given it an idea of the 
typical difference to the mid-rate. I understand A has now found what it considers to be a 
more advantageous way of dealing with its currency payments.
I know A will be disappointed when I say that HSBC has not made any mistake or acted 
unreasonably, and I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman