DRN-1671928
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of her husband, Mr S, that AXA Insurance UK Plc settled his 
car insurance claim on a full fault basis and that there were delays in settling the claim.
What happened
Mr S had a car insurance policy with AXA. His car was parked on the side of the road 
when a third partys car parked in front of it.
Overnight the third partys car was set on fire. The fire spread to Mr Ss car and 
caused significant damage.
Mr S called AXA to report the damage and raise a claim. It said that it would pick the car 
up that day. Several days later the car still hadnt been picked up and so Mr S again 
contacted AXA. It then arranged for the cars collection.
AXA arranged for an engineer to assess the vehicle, the engineer decided that the car 
was beyond economical repair. AXA settled the claim with Mr S, paying him £1,950 minus 
his policy excess. It told Mr S the claim would be registered on a full fault basis until such 
time that it could recover any costs from a third party.
Mr S complained to AXA as he felt he shouldnt have had to pay the excess, and he 
didnt agree that the claim should be registered as a fault claim. Mr S also felt there was a 
delay in settling the claim as the car wasnt picked up for several days and Mr S had to make 
several phone calls to find out what was happening.
AXA said that Mr Ss complaint wasnt allocated to a complaint handler within a 
timely manner, so it didnt issue a response to the complaint but gave Mr S referral rights to 
us.
Mr S remained unhappy so brought his complaint to us via Mrs S. I sent AXA and Mr S my 
provisional decision on 4 May 2020. I explained that I thought AXA failed to investigate the 
claim properly and there was an avoidable delay. So, I was minded to tell AXA to pay 
compensation to Mr S and review his claim. Ive copied my findings from my provisional 
decision below. 
My provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said;
Im conscious that Mrs S feels strongly that, as her husband wasnt to blame for the 
damage, it shouldnt be recorded as a fault claim against him. And so, I think it would have 
helped Mr S if AXA had clearly explained what they meant by fault.
Insurers often refer to claims as being fault or non-fault. But these terms are really a form 
of shorthand and could be misleading. A fault claim doesn't mean that the policyholder was to blame for the accident or claim, just that the insurer hasn't been able to recover its cost 
for settling the claim.
So, when the damage was caused by an unidentified third party, as the insurer has no-
one to recover their costs from, theyll refer to it as being a fault claim. In those 
circumstances a consumers no claims bonus (NCB) will most likely be affected by being 
reduced. Or if it is protected the claim will count against it. And this reflects how insurers 
record such incidents on a shared database of claims (the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE)). They don't actually record them as fault or non-fault, but as either bonus 
allowed or disallowed.
Where the insurer has no prospect of recovering its costs its likely to record this on CUE 
as bonus disallowed and either reduce the policy holders NCB from that point or count it 
against their protected NCB (this wont affect the level of bonus if it is the first bonus 
disallowed claim theyve had).
Its not unusual for an insurer to record a claim as NCB disallowed until such time as 
they have recovered their costs.
In cases of this kind its often unlikely that the costs will be recovered from a third 
party. Thats because the costs would need to be recovered from the arsonist. So, they 
would need to be identified and proven to have caused the fire before they were pursued for 
the costs.
But with that in mind, however unlikely it may be, I would expect AXA to make 
some attempts to recover their costs by contacting the police or TPI to enquire if a culprit has 
been identified. I say this because I think it is good industry practice and the rules 
covering insurance companies say AXA must treat its customers fairly.
However in this case, Im dont think AXA did treat Mr S fairly or act in accordance with 
good industry practice.
When AXA was asked if it had obtained the police report, it said it wasnt provided with 
any police crime reference numbers or any information that the police were involved. 
However, in the first notification of loss call AXA noted there was an on-going police 
investigation. So, I think it was aware that the police were involved. Furthermore, it wouldnt 
be unreasonable to assume that there would be reports from either the police or fire brigade 
considering the allegation was that the fire was a result of arson. But I cant see that either of 
these parties were contacted or reports obtained.
AXA has also said that it attempted to contact the third party insurer (TPI), but 
hasnt received anything from them. AXA has indicated this was because Mr S didnt provide 
full details of the third party involved. Although there is expectation for the customer to 
provide accurate information to AXA to aid its investigation, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to show that AXA told Mr S what further information was required. Had it done so, I 
think that Mr S would have provided all the information that he had, as it was in his interests 
to do so. Plus, if AXA had the registration number of the third party vehicle they should have 
been able to trace the owner using this.
Information from the police, fire brigade or TPI may have identified, according to 
professional opinion what caused the fire. Although its unlikely, this information may have 
assisted AXA in trying to recover the costs.
So I think AXA should have done a lot more to try and recover its costs. And the fact it 
didnt has clearly caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience.Mr S was unhappy that the policy excess was deducted from his settlement. However 
the excess is a condition of the policy that Mr S took out with AXA. Its not uncommon for 
the excess to be deducted from any settlement payment, whether Mr S thinks he was at fault 
or not, and I dont think AXA acted unfairly in doing so.
Mrs S was also unhappy with the amount of time it took to settle the claim. AXA told Mr 
S that the car would be collected on the day of the claim. When the car was still there two 
days later he called AXA to chase this up. Mr S called again on the third day and AXA 
then arranged for an agent to pick the car up. I think this delay was avoidable and could 
have impacted on the length of the claim, as the damage report couldnt be completed until 
the car had been collected and inspected. So, I think AXA should compensate Mr S for 
this avoidable delay and added inconvenience.
Mr S made several phone calls to chase AXA during the claim. But I dont think there 
were any further avoidable delays. AXA were waiting on an examination of the car and 
reports to be written before it could update Mr S. Once it had the information, AXA attempted 
to contact Mr S to arrange payment. This was about two and a half weeks after the claim 
was made. I can appreciate during this time Mr S was inconvenienced by not having a car 
which led to him incurring costs. However, there is always going to be a level of 
inconvenience in claims of this nature and Mr S policy didnt cover any additional expenses. 
AXA updated Mr S at the relevant points in the claim and so, I dont think they acted unfairly 
here.
So overall, whilst I agree that if AXA were unable to recover its costs, the claim has to 
be recorded as fault or bonus disallowed. I dont think AXA acted in the interest of its 
customer by not conducting a reasonable investigation to try to recover its costs first. Basic 
enquiries with the police, fire brigade or TPI may have led to identifying a third party to 
recover the costs from. AXA also delayed the claim by not picking up the car for three days. 
For these reasons, Im minded to tell AXA to pay Mr S £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. And I also direct AXA to make the enquiries it should have made 
during the investigation into the claim.
The response to my provisional decision
Both Mr S and AXA accepted my provisional decision, so the case has been passed back to 
me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I've also considered again my provisional 
findings.
I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision. That means I see no 
reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision remains 
the same.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I direct 
AXA Insurance UK PLC to;
Pay Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its avoidable delay 
and failure to investigate the claim properly.
Review the claim and make reasonable enquiries to try to recover the costs.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman