DRN-3944238
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited didnt inform her that she could save money 
by switching to a different private medical insurance policy it offered. As such she says she 
has been paying considerably more for her private medical insurance for many years.
What happened
Ms C had the benefit of a group medical insurance policy through her employer. But she
transferred to an individual private medical insurance policy in 2001. She had the benefit of a
BUPA care private medical insurance policy  scale C (BUPA Care). BUPA Care renewed
each year until 2021, when Ms C switched to a BUPA essential care private medical
insurance policy, on the same underwriting terms (Essential Care).
Ms C is unhappy because over many years, around the time of receiving the renewal
notice, shed contact BUPA about the price quoted for BUPA Care for the next policy year.
And although various options had been discussed  and she had been offered discounts on
the original price quoted - it wasnt until 2021 that she was told about Essential Care. After
being provided with the key features of Essential Care, she decided to switch from BUPA
Care as Essential Care was considerably cheaper.
Shes said that Essential Care had been available from BUPA since before 1999 so she
ought to have been told about it many years sooner. If she had been, she says she wouldve
switched from BUPA Care earlier than 2021, saving herself a considerable amount of
money. So, she asked BUPA to refund her for the difference between what she paid for the
BUPA Care and what she wouldve paid for Essential Care over a number of years.
BUPA didnt agree to Ms Cs request. It said that Ms C always made it clear when
contacting BUPA about the renewal of BUPA Care that she didnt want to make changes to
her cover, and thats why its representatives didnt discuss the different levels of cover
available within BUPAs product range. It said any conversation regarding cover had to be
led by Ms C as it offers its products on a non-advised basis.
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Ms C brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator
didnt uphold her complaint. As Ms C disagreed, her complaint was passed to me to consider 
everything afresh and decide.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2023 explaining why I was intending to partially 
uphold Ms Cs complaint and my proposal for BUPA to put things right by paying Ms C the 
difference between the premium shed paid for BUPA Care for the policy years 2016/2017, 
2017/2018, 2018/2019, 2019/2020 and 2020/21 with what she wouldve paid for Essential 
Care for the same policy years (together with interest). 
An extract of my provisional decision appears below:

BUPA has an obligation to treat customers fairly. And in the particular circumstances of this
case, I dont think it has acted fairly and reasonably by not mentioning to Ms C the key
features of Essential Care earlier than 2021 (including the cost which was considerably
cheaper than BUPA Care).
Im satisfied that the cost of BUPA Care was a concern to Ms C. BUPAs internal records
reflect that she was in regular contact with it over the years around the time of renewal to
discuss whether BUPA could reduce the cost of the policy for the following policy year,
particularly from April 2015.
In 2021, when Ms C contacted BUPA about the cost of BUPA Care (after receiving the
renewal notice), the representative said that she could review Ms Cs options. I accept that
Ms C said that she wanted to keep everything the same. So, she was then only offered one
month free. And when Ms C enquired whether the representative could do anything more,
the representative again spoke about different options available.
Im satisfied from listening to the call that Ms C was under the impression that to explore
other options meant that she would have to consider changing the hospital list shed
benefitted from, would have to reduce cancer cover or have her policy underwritten again by
answering questions about her health.
However, when BUPAs representative explained that Ms C had the benefit of the most
expensive outpatient benefit and that BUPA also offered policies which wouldnt cover initial
outpatient consultations with specialists, Ms C wanted to find out more. She was then told
that cancer consultations would still be covered, and shed have the same level of cancer
care shed always benefitted from, the same hospital list and it would cover pre-existing
medical conditions. However, she was told complementary treatments wouldnt be covered
and shed have no cover for mental health. She also wouldnt benefit from the NHS
cashback, which is a set payment shed receive each day if she had to stay in an NHS
facility. She was told that this was insurance product was called Essential Care and it
would cost more than half the price of BUPA Care shed been quoted for.
Ms C asked to be sent details of the key features and costs, applying different excesses so
she could consider further. She also said she hadnt been told about Essential Care
previously when shed called to discuss the cost of the policy. She said shed only been
given the option to change the hospital list, cancer cover or for the policy to be underwritten
again. Thats why when shed been asked previously about whether she wanted to discuss
her options shed declined because she didnt want to change those features as they were
important to her. Im persuaded by what Ms C says about this. And given some of her past
interactions with BUPA, I can understand why she had that belief  which I think was
genuinely and reasonably held. Ill explain why.
BUPAs note dated April 2016 reflects that Ms C had called BUPA to discuss the price and
its representative offered to go through the options, but Ms C wanted the filters sent out. A
letter was subsequently sent to her, and she was told that in order to review cover, Ms C
would have to provide information such as her preferred excess, the level of cover she
wanted for cancer  and which hospital list. She was also asked whether shed consider
answering questions about her health so that the policy could be fully underwritten again  or
whether shed consider a moratorium policy. Importantly, I think in this case, she wasnt told
that altering the consultant outpatient benefit  or removing certain benefits such as
complimentary therapy and mental health cover  could make a difference to price. As a
result, she didnt contact BUPA that year to discuss those options further.
I havent been given a recording of the call she had with BUPAs representative in April 2018
but BUPAs internal notes reflect that she called to query the renewal price and was looking
to reduce her premium. Its reflected that she was presented with options and offered areduction of two months premium  which Ms C accepted. Without anything further, I think
its likely on a balance of probabilities that Ms C was only asked the same questions that
she was sent in 2016 (detailed above). Thats because the note reflects that she and the
representative went through the filter grid together  a similar term to the filter questions
referred to in BUPAs note of April 2016 when shed called to discuss the premium then.
Im satisfied thats why when Ms C called BUPA in March 2019 to discuss the renewal
price shed been quoted and was asked whether shed consider adjusting the policy, she
said she was not prepared to switch to a different policy. I can understand why she
(reasonably) believed any reference to adjusting BUPA Care meant going through the filter
grid or having to have her policy underwritten again. Thats supported by what BUPAs
representative says at the end of the call when Ms C remained unhappy that BUPA had
offered her one months premium free. Ms C was told that an alternative policy could be
offered but that would involve underwriting. I think its unlikely that reference made to an
alternative policy related to Essential Care as switching to this policy didnt require the policy
to be underwritten again. And there was no mention of possibly reducing the level of
outpatient benefit  or the other features of the Essential Care.
When contacting BUPA in April 2020 to discuss the premium shed been quoted at renewal,
she was told by the representative that they could look at different ways of reducing the cost
of the policy. Ms C was asked whether she wanted to make changes to BUPA Care. 
Ms C responded that she wanted to keep it the same. She was then told BUPA could offer 
her one month free again but other than that shed have to change her excess or coverage,
which Ms C didnt want to do. But again, given the possible changes that couldve been
made to BUPA Care as discussed previously with Ms C  particularly in 2016 and 2018 - I
can see why she didnt want to go down this route again as she wasnt interested in making
those particular changes.
At some point during the call, Ms C is also told by BUPAs representative that she could
look at options such as consultations, excess but I dont think it would be reasonable to
expect Ms C to be aware that the brief reference to consultations meant the outpatient
consultation benefit could be reduced. And that if she switched to another policy which didnt
include complimentary treatment or mental health cover, such as Essential Care, she could
save on the premium. Particularly without further explanation such as the one given in the
April 2021 call, which prompted Ms C to want to find out more about the features of
Essential Care.
BUPA accepts that Essential Care was available from at least 2002 when Ms C transferred
to BUPA Care from the group policy, she had the benefit of. I havent got any documentation
from the time, but Im satisfied from the policy certificates Ive seen, spanning several years,
that Ms C wouldve been aware of the key features of the policy  including the costs and
main benefits of BUPA Care when she transferred in 2002. And these features were on the
policy schedules sent to her each year. I cant see anything to suggest that she wasnt happy
with the level of cover. 
As I dont think BUPA advised Ms C to transfer to BUPA Care in 2002, it was for her to 
decide whether the policy met her needs. BUPA  unless asked  werent under any 
requirement to present different options to her or at each subsequent renewal.
However, when Ms C contacted BUPA to discuss the cost of the policy in 2016, I think she
shouldve been presented with different options then  including the option of Essential Care.
And if she had been, I think its most likely she wouldve switched from BUPA Care. I accept
that she didnt know about Essential Care before April 2021 and from what both parties have
said it doesnt look like details of Essential Care were on BUPAs website at the time.Ms C said during the call dated April 2021 that she didnt have any use for mental health
cover, complimentary treatment cover or the NHS benefit. And Ive seen nothing to show
that she ever made a claim on the policy for any of those benefits during the entire time she
had the benefit of BUPA Care. Thats not to say BUPA wasnt on risk for such claim during
that time. But I think it does support what Ms C says about when weighing up the reduced
cost of Essential Care with the reduced benefits, she wouldve chosen to go without certain
benefits to have a cheaper policy. Particularly as Essential Care still provided full cancer
cover, the same hospital list, same excess and covered pre-existing medical conditions.
Essential Care doesnt cover initial outpatient appointments but given Ms Cs level of
excess, I accept what she says about that benefit not being an important concern to her,
given the financial savings shed make by switching to Essential Care.
Ms C has also raised concerns about the cost of the Essential Care compared with BUPA
Care. In my experience there would be various factors which medical insurers base its
premiums on. And these policies didnt offer like for like cover so the base cost would be
based on the cover provided. So, as Essential Care didnt cover mental health for example,
its understandable that there would be a price differential between the two policies.
.
Both parties were given an opportunity to reply. BUPA didnt object to my provisional 
decision. Ms C raised further points in response and also provided a recording of a call she 
had with BUPA in April 2015, which I listened to.
In light of that phone call, I explained to the parties in an email dated 9 February 2023 that I 
also intended to direct BUPA to pay the difference (with interest) between the premium Ms C 
paid for BUPA Care for the policy year 2015/2016 and what she wouldve paid for
Essential Care for the same policy year  in addition to the amounts set out in the provisional
decision. 
Thats because in April 2015 Ms C called BUPA about the premium being too high and 
wanted to explore ways of reducing this. I explained to the parties that I was satisfied:
Ms C was told by BUPAs representative that he could go through her options to 
change cover to reduce the price. And if she wanted to change policies that would 
involve a revaluation of her medical history. 
Ms C didnt want to do this initially, but she did agree to be given a quote to see how 
this would impact her premium. She was asked whether she was happy to contribute 
towards consultations and therapies and she said she would, if it brought down the 
price of the policy.
She was then given three options  none of which appear to have resembled 
Essential Care as Ms C had already been told that to take out a new policy, BUPA 
would have to consider her medical history again and pre-existing medical conditions 
could be excluded. Thats different to what she was told in 2021 when Essential Care 
was mentioned. She was told she could switch to Essential Care and any pre-
existing conditions would be covered.
Theres no mention of removing the benefits for complimentary treatments, treatment 
for mental health or the NHS benefit.
I explained that had Essential Care been explored with Ms C in 2015 - in response to her 
saying shed consider contributing towards consultations and therapies - and she knew that 
her pre-existing medical conditions would be covered, I think its likely she wouldve opted to switch at that stage. Particularly as she wouldve been paying almost £800 less for Essential 
Care and she was proactively looking at ways to reduce the premium. Her hospital list and 
cancer benefit wouldve been the same and that seems to have been very important to her.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms C also referred to letters shed received from 
BUPA dated March 2010 and March 2011 which she says led her to believe that to reduce 
her premium she wouldve needed to change hospital lists or reduce her excess. She says 
its likely that letters she received from BUPA before then at renewal wouldve said 
something similar. 
However, I explained that I didnt consider it fair and reasonable to direct BUPA to reimburse 
the difference in premiums between BUPA Care and Essential Care before the policy year 
2015/2016. Before that time, I dont think BUPA was under a duty (regulatory, legal or 
otherwise) to tell her about different policies - or ways in which she could reduce her 
premium - when writing to her about the renewal of her policy. And although BUPA 
mentioned two ways in which her premium might be reduced in the letters, she was invited 
to call a particular number if she wanted to further discuss her options.
Both Ms C and BUPA accepted the proposed variance to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept my proposed variance to my provisional decision dated January 
2023, for the reasons already explained to the parties  as set out in my provisional decision 
and subsequent correspondence to the parties dated 9 February 2023 (an extract and 
summary of which are set out above and form part of this final decision) - I partially uphold 
Ms Cs complaint. 
Putting things right
I direct BUPA to put things right by paying Ms C the difference between the premium shed 
paid for BUPA Care for the policy years 2015/2016, 2016/2017, 2017/2018, 2018/2019, 
2019/2020 and 2020/21 with what she wouldve paid for Essential Care for the same policy 
years. From the information provided by BUPA, this totals around £6,380.
BUPA should also pay Ms C simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from the date on
which Ms C paid each premium to the date on which BUPA reimburses her.
If BUPA considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any
interest paid, it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate
showing this if asked for one. That way tax from HM Revenue & Customs, can be reclaimed
if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Cs complaint and direct BUPA Insurance Limited to put things right as set
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman