DRN-2774525
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt pay the £100 incentive 
he says was due to him when he referred a friend
What happened
In April 2020, Mr S recommended his friend switch her account to Nationwide. He said this 
should have resulted in both receiving a switch incentive payment of £100. He said his 
friends account was transferred but neither of them received the payment and he would like 
the incentive to be paid. He is also unhappy that when his friend went into branch in 
June 2020 to provide identification, she was incorrectly told the incentive had now been 
withdrawn.
Nationwide said that the account switch took place in June 2020, however, the criteria to be 
eligible for the incentive werent met, as Mr S friend didnt complete the second part of the 
process. Nationwide also said they wouldnt be able to comment on potential incorrect 
information being given to his friend due to data protection, but suggested she gets in 
contact with Nationwide directly if she wanted this looked into further. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but thought Nationwide had acted fairly in 
the circumstances. Mr C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mr S feels about this complaint. He has raised a number of points
and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything Mr S has
said, but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No
discourtesy is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service.
Id also like to point out that Im only able to consider what has happened directly to Mr S 
and the impact this has had, as he is the account holder relating to this complaint. If Mr S 
friend wants to complain about the experience she has had, she will need to contact 
Nationwide directly.
  
Ive looked at the recommend a friend terms and conditions to understand exactly what the 
requirements are to be eligible for the incentive payment. It states that in order to receive the 
£100 payment, a two-part process must be completed. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that the first part of the process was met. However, after 
the account switch has begun, the friend is required to complete a recommendation form. 
This is the second part of the process. Nationwide have provided screenshots to show this 
wasnt done and I havent seen anything to contradict this.
Ive listened to the call Mr S had with Nationwide on 20 June 2020 where he discusses his 
concerns about his friend being told the incentive was no longer available. Although 
Nationwide was not able to comment on the conversation his friend had, they did explain the 
incentive was still valid. They also confirmed Mr S friend hadnt yet completed the second 
part of the process and had until 9 July to complete it. Nationwide were within their rights not 
to discuss the friends account, for data protection reasons and as there was still sufficient 
time for the form to be completed, Im satisfied that Nationwide havent acted unfairly or 
made a mistake. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman