DRN-4333520
The complaint
Miss E complains that the Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) was irresponsible to lend 
to her.
What happened
Miss E had one loan from Halifax in September 2017 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 10 Sep 2017 £4,000 24m £216.08 1 Sep 2019 1 Apr 2020
Miss E says her financial situation was terrible at the time and Halifax was also her banking 
provider, so should have seen she was struggling with existing short-term loans. She adds 
that the new loan made the situation worse and meant she could not afford priority bills.
Halifax says it checked Miss Es credit score as well as her income and outgoings before 
approving the loan. It says Miss E passed all the checks and so it could not agree the 
lending was irresponsible.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Halifax had carried out proportionate checks and found nothing to indicate the repayments 
were unsustainable.
Miss E responded to say, in summary, that Halifax should have seen how much of her 
income was taken up with other credit commitments as it had access to her bank 
statements. She adds that shed had complaints upheld about other lending around the 
same time and that it was a particularly difficult time in her life due to caring responsibilities 
and a relationship break-up.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Miss E and to Halifax on 4 August 2023. Ive summarised 
my findings below:
I wasnt satisfied that Halifaxs affordability checks went far enough in the 
circumstances because:
oThe loan was for a term of 24 months and Halifax needed to be satisfied the 
repayments were sustainable for that period;
oI couldnt see that Halifax verified Miss Es declared income and housing 
costs;
oHalifax estimated her expenditure at £393 using an industry standard 
statistical average;
oHalifax calculated Miss Es monthly disposable income to be £274 per month 
which, after the new loan repayment, left her with £58 per month for other 
unforeseen expenditure;
oMiss E was already committed to paying 21% of her declared income towards 
credit repayments and the new loan increased that to more than 40%.
So I considered Halifax should have used Miss Es bank statements, to which it had 
access, in order to carry out proportionate checks. Had it done so, it wouldve seen:
oMiss Es income averaged about £1,200 per month in the lead up to the loan;
oMiss E paid around £380 per month for her share of rent and bills;
oThere were regular payments for a mobile phone of around £50 per month;
oMiss E had taken out three short-term loans with one company in the month 
before the loan application and a further one with a second company  a total 
of £650;
As Halifaxs own calculations showed Miss E had only £58 left each month after the 
new loan, the additional short-term debt made the repayments unaffordable.
I also noted that Miss E asked for several payment holidays during the term of the 
loan, starting after shed made just one repayment.
In summary, I was satisfied that proportionate checks would have shown Miss E was already
struggling financially. So, I found it was irresponsible to have approved the loan, given what
Halifax should have known about Miss Es financial circumstances.
Miss E responded to say she had no additional information.
Halifax responded to say that it maintains its checks were proportionate and its calculations 
showed Miss E had disposable income of £274 per month with which to pay the repayments 
of £216.08 for 24 months. It added that Miss E used some of the money to repay existing 
debts and that she only contacted Halifax once, in February 2019, to say she had a short-
term problem with the repayment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Halifaxs response, but I still dont find its checks went far enough, given what 
it knew about Miss Es circumstances. I consider it is unrealistic to expect sustainable 
repayments when a consumer has less than £60 per month remaining and repayments are 
due for 24 months. In addition, with over 40% of Miss Es declared income to be committed 
to credit repayments, there was a real risk that shed be unable to make priority payments.
I note what Halifax says about the loan being used to repay other debts, but, at the point of 
the lending decision, Halifax did not have that information  in fact it noted the purpose of the 
loan as miscellaneous.So, I still find that Halifaxs checks didnt go far enough and that proportionate checks would 
have shown that further lending was irresponsible.
In summary, as neither party provided any new information, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss E received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss E made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Miss E having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Es credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to deduct tax from this interest. Halifax should
give Miss E a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman