DRN-3031258
summary and background of complaint 
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) sold with a mortgage. Mrs A 
says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her the PPI. 
Halifax didnt agree that we could look into the complaint about how the PPI was sold. It said 
Mrs A had referred the complaint to us too late under the rules we operate by. One of our 
adjudicators looked into this and told Mrs A that they didnt think we could consider the 
complaint because it had been made out of time. 
Mrs As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. And as the complaint cant 
be resolved informally, it has therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
The rules under which I work say that where a business doesnt agree, I cant consider a 
complaint which is referred to this service more than six months after the date of the 
business final response letter (FRL), unless the person making the complaint was prevented 
from making their complaint in time, as a result of exceptional circumstances. Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rule 2.8.2R(1) can be provided on request or can be found online in the 
DISP section of the FCA Handbook. 
Mrs A originally complained to Halifax about these matters in October 2013. Halifax says she 
was sent an FRL about her complaint on 13 December 2013, saying it had been investigated 
and wasnt being upheld. Ive seen a copy of that letter and amongst other things I note it 
said in conclusion, you have the right to refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service (FOS). Any referral to FOS must be made within six months of the date of this 
letter. A leaflet was enclosed explaining more about how to do this.
This means the six-month time limit started to run on 13 December 2013, the date of the 
FRL. However, no such referral was made to our service until 7 March 2018. Halifax has 
said we cant look at the mis-sale complaint because Mrs A referred the matter to us outside 
the six-month time limit which applies and which was mentioned in the letter Mrs A was sent. 
So, given that Mrs A didnt refer her complaint to us until substantially outside the six-month 
period I consider her complaint was referred too late under the rules that I must apply. 
It follows that we dont have power to look at her complaint any further. 
Im able to investigate complaints made outside of the usual time limits where Im satisfied 
the late referral of the complaint was due to exceptional circumstances. Ive therefore 
thought carefully about whether there were exceptional circumstances in this case by looking 
at everything Mrs A and her current representatives have told us. 
Firstly, Ive seen that the FRL was correctly addressed and I havent seen any other 
evidence to suggest there might have been a reason why Mrs A didnt receive it. 
I also see that it seems Mrs A engaged the services of her current representative - a claims 
management company - in the years after shed been sent the Halifax FRL. The company 
representing Mrs A now implies the 2013 FRL should be disregarded because Mrs A was 
sent another letter by Halifax, in 2018, about the commission element of her PPI. 
However, the 2018 letter doesnt change anything. Thats because it was informing Mrs A 
that her mortgage wasnt one that was affected by a court ruling about PPI commissions  
and Halifax was obliged by the financial regulator to let her know about this. This letter from 
2018 therefore doesnt change the final response she was sent in 2013 and thats the date 
from which she had six months to complain to ourselves.
So to summarise, Ive not seen anything suggesting that exceptional circumstances might 
apply to Mrs As complaint. Im afraid she needed to make her complaint to the Service in 
the six months specified in the FRL in 2013. As she didnt, I cannot consider her complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs A.
my decision
Im unable to consider Mrs As complaint about how the policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of any exceptional circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman