DRN-1484442
Complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading at the time as Satsuma irresponsibly 
lent to him.                     
Background
This complaint is about one loan Satsuma provided to Mr M in November 2017. The loan 
was for £500 payable over six monthly instalments. The highest monthly repayment for this 
loan was £158. I understand there is still an outstanding balance on this loan. 
In its final response, Satsuma told Mr M it would not uphold his complaint. It said it had 
carried out the necessary proportionate checks for this loan.
Mr M said it was clear to him that his finances weren't sufficiently checked. If they had been 
it should have been clear that his situation was unsustainable. He told us that his recent 
financial history left him in a debt spiral as he was repaying over half his income for multiple 
loans, leaving him falling behind on his priority bills.
Our adjudicator didn't think this was a complaint that should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with 
our adjudicators view. He referred to another ombudsmans decision in another case and 
pointed to the fact that this one had been upheld even as early as Loan 1. He said his 
situation was similar. He asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr M feels strongly about his complaint and I want to assure him that Ive carefully 
considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and what 
this all means for his complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I will explain why Ive decided 
not to uphold his complaint.
When it gave Mr M his loan, Satsuma said it had carried out a series of checks. These 
checks included a credit file search. Mr M also declared income and outgoings which 
Satsuma took into consideration and it also said it checked its database of information for its 
existing customers. It also explained that it also checked other information to ensure that any 
income and expenses declared were reasonable compared with people in similar 
circumstances. Sometimes it increased the amount, so it didn't underestimate the figures a 
consumer had given, and it looks like thats what happened in Mr Ms case. It also said it 
considered past payment before deciding to lend if the consumer had borrowed from it 
before.
When Mr M took out his loan, he declared that he had an income of £2,500. He said his 
expenses were £950 per month. Satsuma increased these outgoings allowing for outgoings 
of around £1,500. Nevertheless, even after increasing Mr Ms expenditure, it still reached the 
conclusion Mr M would have had around £807.60 in monthly disposable income even after 
he had made his loan repayment.  This was more than sufficient to be able to make the 
payments Mr M was committed to making. 
Bearing in mind what Ive said above, about early in the lending relationship the checks 
Satsuma did should have been proportionate and reasonable. I think the levels of checks 
Satsuma carried out in this case, together with consideration of the income and expenditure 
details provided by Mr M were likely to have been proportionate. I have next gone onto 
consider whether based on the checks it did and the results it saw, if it had properly 
considered the information, Satsuma would have reached the conclusion that this loan was affordable to Mr M. Following the checks it did, Ive considered whether Satsuma should 
have made the decision to lend to Mr M.
Mr M has told us that he believes his previous records couldn't have been looked at 
sufficiently. He points to the fact that in the months leading up to November 2017 when he 
took out his loan with Satsuma, he was having financial difficulty which was recorded on his 
credit file and that he had recently defaulted on a payday loan. He says his debt had more 
than doubled in the previous twelve months. And hes explained that the information in his 
credit files would have left clear indicators that all was not right. He said he had recently 
taken out a credit card with a company related to Satsuma and at the time he had an 
escalating gambling issue which would have been clear on his bank statements.
As Ive explained this was early in the relationship, so I dont think Satsuma would have 
needed to see Mr Ms bank statements. And to be clear although Mr M has provided an 
extract of his credit report from that time and I have considered it carefully, I still think on 
balance, taking Mr Ms circumstances in the round, that it was reasonable at this stage of the 
lending relationship to have relied on the information that Mr M provided and what Satsuma 
saw from its own credit search.
Ive also seen a summary of the credit checks Satsuma carried out. I think it shows that four 
payments were in arrears within the last six months. However, there were no other obvious 
signs of difficulty taking the picture of Mr Ms financial circumstances as a whole, which 
might have led it to have made some further checks. Based on the information Satsuma had 
there was no sign of bankruptcy or judgments against Mr M and there were no other payday 
loans recorded in the last three months at that time. 
Based on this information, the amount of Mr Ms declared income, his expenditure which 
took into account a number of different expenses including housing costs and the relatively 
low monthly payment for the first loan Mr M had taken out, I still dont think Satsuma would 
have been alerted to Mr M having problems managing money and at this point in its lending 
relationship I dont think it needed to do more to verify the information it had about Mr Ms 
financial circumstances. I dont think based on the information Satsuma saw at the time 
would have been as detailed as any checks Mr M had about his own circumstances.
I appreciate Mr M fell into arrears after taking out his loan but at the point Satsuma gave him 
this loan, I dont think based on the checks it did it wouldnt have had reason to think Mr M 
wasnt able to sustainably meet his repayments. If the loan remains outstanding, I remind 
Satsuma of its duty to treat Mr M fairly in relation to this matter.
Ive also thought about what Mr M has said about another case where the outcome was 
different. But each case is decided on its own facts and merits. So, the circumstances which 
apply in one case dont apply in another. Im sorry to disappoint but Mr M but for the reasons 
Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Provident Personal Credit 
Limited doesnt need to take any steps to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman