DRN-4058151
The complaint
Mr F complains that 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited didnt tell him there was a deadline 
for him to change the property in his mortgage offer and retain the fixed rate product hed 
reserved. His property purchase fell through and he had to re-apply for a new mortgage with 
a higher interest rate product.
What happened
Mr F took mortgage advice from 2 Plan in April 2022. It recommended a mortgage with a 10-
year fixed interest rate product. The lender issued a decision in principle (DIP) and 2 Plan 
reserved the product for 90 days. Mr F had an offer accepted on a property and 2 Plan 
submitted an application on his behalf. The lender issued a mortgage offer in late May 2022.
Unfortunately, Mr Fs purchase fell through. He found a new property in mid-July 2022. 
However, the lender said he couldnt retain the mortgage product if he changed the property 
as this was outside the 90-day reservation period. 
Mr F applied to a new lender. He incurred costs and the interest rate is higher. He says this 
will cost him about £15,000 more during the 10-year product term.
Mr F spoke to 2 Plan at the end of May 2022 when he became aware there was a risk his 
purchase would fall through. He says 2 Plan told him hed be able to change the property in 
the mortgage offer. Mr F says if hed known this wasnt possible hed have started looking for 
a new property straight away to secure a new offer within the 90-day reservation period.
Our investigator said the change in property was a material change and the lender said a 
new application was required. She said 2 Plan wasnt responsible for the lenders decision. 
Our investigator said there was a dispute about whether 2 Plan told Mr F about the 90-day 
reservation period. But either way, it wasnt certain that hed have found a property in time 
for a new mortgage offer to be issued within the 90-day reservation period.
Mr F didnt agree. He said if hed been given clear information, he could have looked for a 
property and re-applied within the 90-day period. Or he could applied for a new DIP at the 
end of May 2022 before rates increased further, so hed have a further 90 days. He said the 
lender was still offering the same product at that time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The lender issued a decision in principle (DIP) on 1 April 2022. This isnt a mortgage offer 
and doesnt itself reserve a product. However, 2 Plan reserved the 2.09% 10-year product 
for Mr F. Information provided by the lender says if an offer is issued within 90 days it will 
honour the rate. So, to benefit from this rate, Mr F needed to secure a mortgage offer by 29 
June 2022. 2 Plan says it told Mr F the rate was reserved for 90 days. Mr F says he wasnt 
told this. 
Mr F found a property and 2 Plan submitted an application on his behalf on 11 April 2022. 
The lender issued a mortgage offer on 26 May 2022. 
Mr F discussed the possibility of his purchase falling though with 2 Plan on 31 May 2022. 
Mr F says 2 Plan told him hed be able to update the address in the mortgage offer and hed 
have to pay the lender for a valuation of the new property. 2 Plan says this would have been 
correct at that time, as they were within the 90 days reservation period.
On 18 July 2022 Mr F emailed 2 Plan saying his purchase had fallen through the previous 
week. Hed had an offer accepted on a new property. 2 Plan asked the lender to update the 
mortgage application with the new property, and asked if Mr F could keep the rate. The 
lender didnt allow Mr F to keep the rate. 2 Plan says this was because the request was 
made some time after the 90-day reservation period had expired.
Mr F applied elsewhere and took out a mortgage with a 10-year product with a 3.33% 
interest rate.
Mr F says hed have acted differently if hed been given clear information by 2 Plan at the 
end of May 2022. Mr F says hed have looked for a new property immediately. Or made a 
new rate reservation, which would have given him another 90 days to find a property. He 
says 2 Plan should have advised him to do this.
With the benefit of hindsight, we know Mr F would have been better off if hed done this. But 
when deciding if 2 Plan made an error and how this affected Mr F I have to consider what 
the parties knew at the time. 
2 Plan reserved the rate for 90 days. It applied for and secured a mortgage offer for Mr F 
within this period. 2 Plan wasnt responsible for Mr Fs purchase falling through.
Mr F says he was misled by 2 Plan that if the property fell through it would just ask the 
lender to change the address in the offer. Mr F knew the lender would need a satisfactory 
valuation. And a new mortgage offer would need to be issued with the new property details. I 
think he must reasonably have known there was more to the process than simply giving the 
lender the new address. However, Mr F had passed the lenders affordability checks, so 
unless there was a problem with the property or the valuation, theres no reason to think the 
lender wouldnt have issued a new mortgage offer reasonably quickly. If 2 Plan told Mr F it 
didnt expect this to be a problem, I dont think that would have been unreasonable. 
Mr F said the mortgage offer was portable, so he should have been able to transfer it to 
another property. Thats not the intention of the provision, which is to allow borrowers to 
move home without incurring an early repayment charge after theyve taken out the 
mortgage. This would also require a new application to be made. The mortgage offer is 
conditional on there being no material change before the mortgage completes. 
I think the real issue here is that the 90-day rate reservation expired before Mr F found the 
new property. The parties dispute whether 2 Plan told Mr F that the rate was reserved for 90 
days. In fairness, Mr F cant have expected the rate to have been reserved indefinitely and 
he must have known it would expire at some point. I can understand though why Mr F says 
2 Plan ought to have told him (or reminded him) at the end of May 2022 that the rate 
reservation would expire at the end of June 2022 and what this could mean if his purchase fell through. But I dont think this would have changed the outcome.
At the end of May 2022 there was about a month remaining of the 90-day reservation period. 
It took more than six weeks from Mr Fs application to the first lender and the mortgage offer 
being issued. Mr F agreed to buy another property in mid-July 2022 and received a 
mortgage offer in mid-October 2022  some 12 weeks later. A new application to the first 
lender would likely have been quicker as it had already carried out an affordability 
assessment. But for Mr F to benefit from the reserved rate, hed have had to find and have 
an offer accepted on a new property, and for the lender to arrange a valuation and issue a 
new mortgage offer before 29 June 2022 (about four weeks). I cant be certain that Mr F 
would have found a property and received a new mortgage offer within this timescale. And  
for the reasons set out below  Im not sure that he would have tried to do so. 
While Mr F says he could have reserved a new rate to give him more time to find a property, 
again I dont know that he would have done so.
At the end of May 2022, Mr F had a mortgage offer for the property he wanted to buy. I dont 
think hed have been able to keep the benefit of his mortgage offer while also obtaining a 
new DIP and reserving a new rate or starting an application for a mortgage on another 
property. We asked the lender what its policy was at that time. It said while Mr F could have 
reserved a new product and submitted a new application, the old application would have to 
be cancelled. 2 Plan says this lender was the only one at that time to allow customers to 
reserve a rate before making an application. Mr F couldnt have made a mortgage 
application (to the same or a different lender) until he found a new property.
To put it simply, Mr F wouldnt necessarily have been able to hedge his bets by starting a 
new application process while retaining the benefit of the mortgage offer hed received.
Mr F told 2 Plan he hoped the purchase wouldnt fall through as it was ideal for his family. He 
told 2 Plan the problem was that the vendors were having difficulty finding a property to buy 
 a situation that could have changed. The mortgage offer was valid until November 2022, 
which would have allowed time for this, and it included the 10-year product Mr F wanted. If, 
at the end of May 2022, Mr F thought it likely his purchase would fall through Id have 
expected him to start looking for another property immediately, especially as hed agreed to 
sell his own property. It seems he didnt do this until after the purchase fell through  some 
six weeks later  which suggests he was hopeful it would proceed. I understand Mr Fs point 
that he thought hed be able to keep the mortgage offer and change the property later, if he 
needed to. But taking all of the circumstances into account, Im not persuaded Mr F would 
have given up on the property he wanted to buy (and for which he had a mortgage offer) at 
the end of May 2022 even if hed known more about the process when theres a change of 
property. I think, on balance, its more likely hed have waited to see if his purchase would 
proceed.
I dont think its reasonable to find that 2 Plan should have advised Mr F to look for another 
property immediately or reserve a new rate at the end of May 2022. Mr F had a mortgage 
offer in place for the property he wanted to buy, and he was hoping his purchase would go 
ahead. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for 2 Plan to wait to hear from Mr F 
about what was happening with the property. 
Mr F says 2 Plan didnt offer to start a new application for him. 2 Plan sent an email to Mr F 
on 19 July 2022 asking if he wanted it to make a new application and setting out rates 
available with the same lender and other lenders. This included a lifetime rate that was lower 
than the 10-year rate Mr F took out with his current lender. Mr F responded saying hed 
secured a rate himself and raised a complaint. Mr F didnt have to take up 2 Plans offer to 
help him with a new application, but I dont think its fair to say it didnt offer this. Having carefully considered the evidence and what the parties have said, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. It was unfortunate that Mr Fs purchase fell through, and that this 
happened after the rate reservation expired and increase rates had increased. But Im not 
persuaded that Mr F would have acted differently if hed had more information at the end of 
May 2022 about what might happen if his purchase fell through. And I dont think 2 Plan 
made errors such as to make it fair and reasonable to require it to pay the compensation 
Mr F asks for.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman