DRN-3826167
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclay Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) unfairly turned down his 
claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a timeshare membership from a business Ill call X in July 1999. They 
say the total cost of the timeshare was £8,249 of which Mr B paid £7,649 using his 
Barclaycard credit card. As the relevant payment was made on Mr Bs credit card, I will refer 
to Mr B throughout.
Mr B, together with his representatives, have said that when he took out the timeshare X 
misrepresented it to him. He says that had he known what X said about the timeshare wasnt 
right, he would not have taken it out in the first place. Additionally, Mr B says he was 
pressured into taking out the timeshare.
In 2019 Mr B complained to Barclaycard. To summarise it responded to say it couldnt locate 
the payment and the account it was able to locate for Mr B was opened after the payment 
took place. Additionally, it said that even if Mr B was able to show the payment took place on 
a Barclaycard account, the claim under s.75 CCA has been raised too late and outside the 
relevant provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
One of our investigators considered the complaint. In her most recent assessment, she 
concluded that the claim was raised too late and outside the relevant provisions of the LA. 
Prior to this assessment Mr B provided a credit receipt showing a payment being made on a 
Barclaycard credit card. Mr B and his representatives didnt agree with the investigators 
opinion and as an agreement wasnt reached, Mr B and his representatives asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. In my 
provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained above, Mr B has provided evidence of the relevant payment taking place. 
Barclaycard has confirmed this payment was made on a Barclaycard which has since been 
purged in 1999. So, after the relevant payment was made using a Barclaycard, the account 
mustve been closed in 1999. Ill now go on and consider Barclaycards handling of the 
claim.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr B says that X misrepresented the nature of the timeshare membership to him when he 
bought it. But under s.2 of the LA, Mr B had to make this claim within six years of when he 
entered into the timeshare. This is because thats when he says he lost out having relied on 
false statements of fact. Mr B purchased the timeshare in 1999 and didnt raise his claim 
until 2019, so he was outside the time limits set out by the LA. I note Mr B has also said he 
was pressured into taking out the timeshare. Whilst this could have helped when considering 
whether there was a misrepresentation, Ive already explained why I think that claim was 
raised too late so I cant consider this further.
Section 140A CCA
I note that Mr B and his representatives have at times made arguments which relate to a 
s.140A CCA claim. Its not clear if this was raised with Barclaycard in the first instance, but 
for the avoidance of doubt s.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. 
Schedule 3 of that Act sets out what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a 
credit agreement had completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be 
brought in respect of that credit agreement. Barclaycard has said the account was purged 
and therefore closed in 1999, so Mr B cannot make a s.140A CCA claim in relation to the 
payment in question.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Mr Bs 
representatives have said that limitation should be extended under s.32 LA. This extends the 
limitation period in circumstances of fraud, deliberate concealment or mistake to the point at 
which Mr B discovered this (or could reasonably have been expected to discover this if hed 
exercised reasonable diligence.) Mr Bs representatives have said because X was selling the 
product to many clients it would have known that if other clients wanted the timeshare at the 
same time as Mr B, this wasnt possible. It says that because of this all the representations 
made by X were fraudulent.
Even if I were to accept Mr Bs representatives argument (and I have some trouble accepting 
this would made all representations made by X during the sale fraudulent) this still doesnt 
explain how Mr B couldnt have reasonably discovered this, when he started trying to use the 
timeshare. So I dont think that even if s.32 LA did apply, it would extend the limitation period 
to allow Mr Bs claims (which werent raised until 2019) to have been made in time. I 
therefore dont think Barclaycard has acted unfairly in declining this claim.
Affordability
I note Mr Bs representatives have argued that there were no affordability checks completed 
by X. However, the relevant transaction involved in this claim was made using a credit card 
not through a loan so there wasnt a requirement to complete affordability checks.
I asked both parties to provide me anything further theyd like me to consider before I 
reached a final decision. Barclaycard confirmed it had nothing further to add and Mr B and 
his representatives didnt provide a response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. So it 
follows that I dont uphold this complaint. I think the s.75 CCA claim was made too late and 
outside the relevant provisions of the LA. I also dont agree there are grounds to extend the 
limitation period in this case. In addition, I dont think s.140A CCA applies to the payment in 
question and nor was there a requirement for Barclaycard to complete affordability checks. My final decision
For the reasons explained I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman