DRN-3098895
Complaint
Miss J has complained that Zopa Limited (Zopa) unfairly arranged unaffordable loans for 
her. She says proper affordability checks to establish whether she could afford to repay what 
she was being lent werent carried out. 
  
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Miss J being provided 
with a first loan in March 2016. The loan was for £1,000.00 and due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of £39.70. Miss J settled this loan early in January 2017. Zopa then 
arranged a second loan for £1,500.00 in July 2017. This loan was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of £48.05. This loan was settled within a month.
Zopa then arranged a third loan for £5,500.00 in May 2017. This loan was to be repaid in 60 
instalments of £132.26. Finally, Zopa then arranged a fourth loan for £5,500.00 in February 
2018 and some of the proceeds from this settled the third loan. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £129.23.
Miss Js complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Zopa ought to 
have seen that Miss J wasnt in a position to repay any of these loans at the time it arranged 
them. So she partially upheld Miss Js complaint. 
Zopa disagreed with our investigators view. As Zopa disagreed, the complaint was passed 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Miss Js complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Js complaint. These 
three questions are:
These two overarching questions are:
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that   
Miss J would be able to meet her obligations under the P2P agreements in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss J wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Zopa didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss J and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss J would be 
able to meet her obligations under the P2P agreements in a sustainable way? 
The rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Zopa brought about these 
P2P agreements with Miss J required it to carry out a proportionate assessment of whether 
she could afford to make her repayments. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Zopa had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss J. In practice this 
meant that Zopa had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss J 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Zopa to 
simply think about the likelihood of Miss J making payments, it had to consider the impact of 
loan repayments on Miss J. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Zopas checks reasonable and proportionate?Zopa has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Miss J before 
arranging all of these loans. It also carried out credit checks to work out what Miss Js 
existing credit commitments were too. As the monthly payments were relatively low (in 
comparison to Miss Js monthly income) I accept that it could be argued that a relatively light 
touch check might have been proportionate in the circumstances. However, Im mindful that 
the credit checks carried out showed Miss J had a significant amount of existing debt.
Equally, its unclear to me how Zopa concluded that Miss J had a monthly disposable 
income of close to £750 when it also appears to have concluded that her monthly 
repayments to existing creditors was almost as much as her monthly income. Its also worth 
noting that by the time of loan 2 there appeared to have been no reduction in what Miss J 
owed externally since loan 1 despite it being over a year later. And Miss J was now returning 
for more than the amount advanced for loan 1. So I think Zopas checks ought to have gone 
further. And it follows that I think Zopa ought to have found out even more about Miss Js 
circumstances when she returned for even more funds for loans 3 and 4, only a few months 
later.  
It seems to me that Zopa merely carried out the same checks for all four of Miss Js loans. 
And think that this led to Zopa failing to take into account the whole picture of its overall 
lending history with Miss J, in favour of a narrower focus on the individual applications, which 
presented a more favourable picture of a deteriorating position. Given Zopas own 
information showed that Miss Js existing debt wasnt decreasing, I would have expected it to 
have taken further steps to verify Miss Js income and expenditure to ensure she had the 
necessary funds to repay the loan it was arranging.
As Zopa proceeded with approving further loans, for increasing amounts, without taking 
steps to verify Miss Js income and expenditure, Im satisfied that the checks Zopa carried 
out before arranging these loans werent reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Zopa that Miss J would have 
been unable to repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that proportionate checks would have told Zopa that Miss J wouldve 
been unable to sustainably repay these loans. 
Miss J has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for these loans. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Miss J has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Zopa mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Zopa showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on what Miss Js bank statements say as an indication of what her financial circumstances 
were more likely than not to have been at the time. To be clear, Ive not looked at Miss Js 
bank statements because I think that Zopa ought to have obtained them before arranging 
these loans for her. Ive consulted Miss Js bank statements because they were readily 
available at this stage and they contain the information I now need to reconstruct the 
proportionate check Zopa should have but failed to carry out.
Its important to note that Zopa was required to establish whether Miss J could sustainably 
make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on 
a strict pounds and pence basis might be an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. And as a 
borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their payments, it follows that a 
lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be 
able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information available in light of all of this.
Having done so, its clear Miss J was gambling significant amounts of money and that her 
ability to make payments to these loans would in large part depend on her success as a 
gambler. In these circumstances, it is apparent to me that Miss J was unlikely to have been 
able to repay these loans without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss J was unlikely to have been able to make 
the repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. 
And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have alerted Zopa to the fact that Miss J would not be able to sustainably 
make the repayments to these loans. 
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss J in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss J in some other 
way.  
So I find that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss J in some other way.  
Did Miss J lose out as a result of Zopa unfairly and unreasonably bringing about her loans?
I think that these loans had the effect of unfairly increasing Miss Js indebtedness as it led to 
her to being given additional credit she couldnt afford to repay. The monthly payments, 
which also included interest and charges, took up a portion of Miss Js income at a time 
where she was already struggling. 
So I find that Miss J did suffer significant adverse consequences and as a result lost out 
because Zopa unfairly arranged these loans.
  
Fair compensation  what Zopa needs to do to put things right for Miss J
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Zopa to put things right for 
Miss J in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Miss J paid on loans 1 and 3 (its my 
understanding that all the interest paid on loan 2 has already been refunded;
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 4 from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £5,500.00 
originally lent. Zopa should treat any payments made should the new starting 
balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to 
Miss J. If an outstanding balance remains on loan 4 after these adjustments, Zopa 
can use the compensation due for loans 1 and 3 to reduce and clear this balance.
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees, charges and overpayments 
from the date they were paid by Miss J to the date of settlement;remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Js credit file as a result of loan 1, 
2 and 3. Any adverse information recorded about loan 4 should also be removed in 
the event Miss J no longer has an outstanding balance with Zopa, once all 
adjustments have been made.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
If after all of the above adjustments have been made (including offsetting the compensation 
for loans 1 and 3) an outstanding balance remains on loan 4, Zopa should set up an 
affordable payment plan for Miss J. Id also remind Zopa of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should 
one remain after all adjustments have been made to the account, and its the case Miss J is 
experiencing financial difficulty.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Js complaint. Zopa Limited should put 
things right for Miss J in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman