DRN-1983071
 
The complaint
Ms Gs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on her behalf that 
she was given unsuitable investment advice by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited. 
The CMC says:
Theres no evidence that alternatives were discussed. Therefore, theres no evidence 
that tax efficient alternatives were discussed.
Theres no evidence Ms Gs attitude to risk was established. 
No justification for recommending a long-term savings plan. 
 
What happened
In 1992, Ms G was advised to invest £50 a month into a capital builder plan  for a term of 
25 years  which included life cover. In March 2002, she surrendered the plan for £4,232.
Sun Life upheld the complaint on the basis that the 25-year term was unsuitable for Ms G. It 
offered redress based on a qualifying 10-year extendable plan that was also available at the 
time but not recommended.  
Sun Life compared the value of what Ms G would've received had she been advised to take 
out the ten-year investment instead. It found a difference of £1,746.36 (loss), to which it 
added 8% simple interest in the sum of £2,384.62 (less 20% tax) and concluded that Ms G 
was due £3,654.06. 
The CMC rejected the offer. In short it said Ms G was single and in her 20s and therefore 
didnt need life cover. It was also likely that her life circumstances would change in future 
and therefore endowment unit linked savings plan with high charges wasnt suitable for her. 
The CMC said Sun Life should refund each premium and add interest at the Bank of 
England base rate +1%. Then offset this against the actual value she received to see 
whether there is a loss, plus interest.  
Sun Life disagreed with the CMC, pointing out that life cover was minimal and included to 
maintain the plans qualifying status. It also said that it used the minimum life cover in its 
redress calculation. 
It said that Ms G was also a home owner and had a reasonable amount of savings and there 
was nothing to suggest her circumstances were likely to change soon. 
Sun Life disagrees that its charges  made clear in the policy documentation  rendered the 
policy unsuitable. The illustration document showed figures that were subject to assumed growth rates, none of which were guaranteed and therefore it cant be blamed for the 
investment not performing better. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Because the complaint has been upheld, hes focused his view on redress, in doing 
so hes looked at what Ms G mightve done instead of investing in the 25-year plan.  
Ms G was: 
osingle, in her late 20s, and earning around £35,000 a year. She had a net 
monthly disposable income of £870, savings of £4,000 and she owned her 
own home.  
oHer objective was to build capital over the medium to long term. 
In the circumstances hes satisfied the 10-year plan wouldve been a suitable 
recommendation. 
The life cover element made the plan qualifying for tax purposes which was important 
given that Ms G was a higher-rate tax payer. 
Sun Lifes offer of redress is overall fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusion. It said the complaint wasnt only 
about the term of the recommendation  if it was the proposed redress would be suitable  
but the complaint is about life cover as well as the charges. 
The investigator having considered the complaint wasnt persuaded to change his mind. In 
summary he said:
Sun Life made an offer of redress based on Ms Gs circumstances at the time.  
Ms G was looking to save medium to long term, in a tax efficient plan, to achieve 
capital growth. So, its likely Ms G, if advised correctly, wouldve gone with the 10-
year plan. 
Hes unable to say that the 10-year plan wouldve been inappropriate. 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Sun Life accepts that the recommendation was unsuitable the key issue for me 
to consider is redress, and whether or not its suitable in this case.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion, for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that Sun Lifes 
redress methodology is unreasonable in the circumstances. Im satisfied that it takes into 
account Ms Gs circumstances and her recorded need for savings over the medium to long 
term. Im mindful there are alternative ways of calculating redress and there are arguments for 
and against each of those alternatives. I dont think that theres a set method of redress in 
this case, so each case must be considered in light of its individual facts. 
Whilst I appreciate the points made by the CMC about calculating redress using the 10-year 
extendable savings plan, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think its 
unreasonable in the circumstances. In other words, if advised properly I think its more likely 
(than not) Ms G wouldve opted for the 10-year savings plan. I note she kept the 25 years 
policy around 10 years before surrendering the plan. 
I appreciate theres no way of knowing, for certain, what Ms G wouldve done in the 
alternative, if shed been advised properly. I think it would be almost impossible to know.
However, on balance I think Ms G (if better advised) is likely to have chosen the 10-year 
savings plan  notwithstanding the life cover  because she was in her late 20s and already 
owned her own home and wanted to save in the medium to long term in a tax efficient way. 
So, in the circumstances I dont think the business proposed method of redress is 
unreasonable for Ms G.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman