DRN-3431467
The complaint
Mr U complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Mr U and Morses here is a brief table of approved loans for Mr U.
Loan 
No:Date Taken Date Repaid Weekly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Weekly 
Repayment
1 05/05/2021 07/05/2021 35 £300.00 £15.00
2 13/07/2021 Outstanding 35 £600.00 £30.00
The first loan was, effectively, withdrawn as it was cancelled and repaid within two days. No 
interest was charged or paid by Mr U and so there was no loss to Mr U.
Loan 2 remains outstanding and a recent Statement of Account indicates that Mr U has 
made no payments towards the loan. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and wrote to both parties to explain that 
Morses had done what she expected it to have done, and so she did not think that Morses 
had done anything wrong. Mr U disagreed and explained that more in-depth checks 
wouldve led Morses to realise he could not repay the loans.
Our adjudicator wrote again and explained further that she felt Morses had carried out 
proportionate checks and that the income and expenditure information it had would have led 
Morses to consider Mr U was able to afford them. The unresolved complaint was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Loan 1 was effectively withdrawn and Mr U sustained no loss. So, in effect, there is no 
complaint about that loan as Mr U has not demonstrated any loss. So, I have not reviewed 
this loan. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr U 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I do not consider that this applies to 
Mr Us situation as he took two loans (one of which was cancelled) and so this was not 
enough for there to be a pattern. 
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint and have explained why below.
For loan 2, Mr U expected Morses to have researched more thoroughly into his financial 
situation than it did. But as I have outlined above, Morses did not have to do more than carry 
out proportionate checks. It did not need to carry out a credit search. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship and for a £600 loan over a relatively modest 
term, then I consider that Morses was able to rely on the information Mr U gave it. 
Ive looked at the information Mr U gave  Morses. Mr U had said he had a weekly income of 
around £452 and expenditure of around £357, leaving him with a disposable income of 
around £95 each week. The loan 2 repayment each week was £30 and deducting this from 
the disposable income of £65 meant that Morses considered loan 2 to have been affordable. 
Mr U has said that on the call where these income and expenditure figures were being 
gathered by a Morses representative, he was encouraged to alter the figures. We have 
asked Morses for a copy call recording and it is not available. I know that Mr U wants us to 
investigate this more thoroughly but without any evidence of this then I can take this point no 
further.  
And it would have been disproportionate for me to expect Morses to have asked to review 
Mr Us bank statements when he applied for loan 2 because it was so early in the lending relationship. So although Mr U says that Morses would have seen that he had some 
particular issues to do with his finances which he says that the bank statement review would 
have revealed, I never would have expected Morses to have got to that stage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Us complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman