DRN-2796251
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about Barclays Bank UK PLC decision to restrict their account.
What happened
In August 2020 Barclays restricted Mr and Mrs Ds account as part of a review. During this 
time Mr and Mrs D couldnt access their account which they said caused financial difficulty.
Mr and Mrs D complained that Barclays had repeatedly misinformed them about how long 
the review would take, and they had to rely on using credit cards for daily expenses. 
On 1 December 2020, when Barclays completed their review, they gave Mr and Mrs D full 
access to their account. 
Our investigator who reviewed the complaint didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. 
He thought Barclays were entitled to review the account in line with their terms and 
conditions and didnt think theyd caused any unnecessary delays.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They said while they understand Barclays may be able to freeze 
accounts, their communication about it wasnt acceptable. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything differently. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs D, but Ive explained my reasons below.
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing and blocking Mr and Mrs Ds account.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr and Mrs D to realise they couldnt use 
their account. And I appreciate this would have put them in a financially challenging position 
because they didnt have access to their funds. But a bank cant always guarantee that funds 
in an account will be readily available as they have broader regulatory obligations with which 
they have to comply.
Barclays havent told Mr and Mrs D why their account was blocked or reviewed. But Barclays 
arent obliged to share the reasons with Mr and Mrs D. This service wont generally intervene 
in a banks commercial discretion when reviewing and subsequently blocking accounts, but 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs D that, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclays 
actions were appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont doubt the length of the delay would have made things more difficult for Mr and Mrs D 
 a total of around four months. But I havent seen any evidence of Barclays causing 
unnecessary delays so I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this part.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays were entitled to take the actions they did, so Im not going to 
ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman