DRN-1790473
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs B took out the PPI during the same meeting in branch in which she applied for the credit 
card in 1995. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she wasnt aware that PPI had been added to the credit card account  meaning 
that Barclays added it without her knowledge or consent.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mrs B completed. Looking at the form, there is a 
separate section for PPI with yes and no options to either request or decline the PPI. The 
yes option has ticked to agree to PPI. Mrs B could have chosen to tick the no box if she 
hadnt wanted the policy. Mrs B says the yes box may have been ticked for her without her 
knowing. But she has also signed and dated the form at the bottom to confirm that the 
details on the form are correct. Im satisfied that, from the wording and layout of the form, 
Mrs B would have known that she had a choice about buying the PPI.
Ive no doubt that Mrs B has provided her honest recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a very long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Bs memory has faded. 
And indeed, Mrs B remembered applying for the credit card by post rather than in a branch 
of Barclays. Based on the available evidence, I think it is more likely than not that Mrs B 
decided to buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers 
doing so.
Barclays advised Mrs B to take out the PPI. That means that, in recommending it to her, it 
needed to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time, the policy was suitable for her.
Mrs B would have received some sick pay from her employer. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mrs B would have received full pay 
for. And she didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. Overall, I 
consider that Mrs B had a need for the policy and that it could have provided a useful benefit at what would have been a difficult time. So I consider it was reasonable of Barclays to 
advise Mrs B to buy it.
Barclays also needed to provide Mrs B with enough information for her to make an informed 
choice about whether or not it was right for her. I think that Mrs B would have known 
something about the policy  that it would cover her repayments if she was unable to work 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think shed have decided to 
buy it without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs B wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mrs B had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no worse 
off as a result of anything that Barclays may have done wrong, so there is nothing that 
Barclays needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman