DRN-3057970
The complaint
Mr G complains about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds settlement of his claim under 
his mobile phone insurance. My references to Assurant include its agents.  
What happened
Mr G has mobile phone insurance through a bank account. Assurant is the insurer. 
In April 2021 Mr G claimed on the policy for accidental damage to his phone. Assurant 
accepted  the claim and Mr G paid the £75 claim excess. Assurant received the damaged 
phone on 20 April 2021 and sent Mr G a replacement phone on 21 April 2021. 
On the 30 April 2021 Mr G contacted Assurant to say the replacement phone was faulty and 
Assurant agreed to have it back for assessment under the warranty. Assurant told Mr G to 
securely package the phone when returning to avoid any damage, which would void the 
warranty, and instructions were sent to him in writing.
On 9 June 2021 Assurant received the phone and saw the back of the phone was cracked. 
Assurant told Mr G that as the damage had invalidated the warranty he would need to make 
a new claim and pay a new £75 excess. Mr G said the phone wasnt damaged when in his 
possession but he paid the new excess for the claim to be processed and he received 
another replacement phone.
Mr G complained to us. He wants the second excess refunded as he says the faulty phone 
should have been repaired under warranty and he wasnt responsible for the damage to the 
phone. He said hed returned the phone in the packaging hed received the phone.
Our investigator thought Assurant should have investigated the cause of the mechanical 
faults Mr G reported when it received the phone. So he said Assurant should investigate the 
cause and unless there was evidence to show the faults were caused by the damage it 
should refund the £75 excess.
Assurant disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary it said:
its warranty covers electronic and mechanical failures. Although the damage to 
Mr Gs phone looked minor, once a phone had been dropped or knocked hard 
enough to cause damage it couldnt determine if the faults with the phone was there 
before the damage occurred or if the damage caused the faults. The phone would 
have to be opened to be inspected and with Mr Gs phone that wouldnt be possible 
without causing further damage to the cracked casing. Also any internal inspection 
would be unlikely to show why the mechanical faults initially started. The damage 
could cause similar faults to those Mr G described
Mr G had the phone for 9-10 days before reporting any problems with the phone and 
then he waited another six weeks before returning the phone. Assurant didnt know 
what happened to the phone in that time
when it told Mr G the phone had been received with a crack to the back casing he 
was initially unsure if the phone was damaged before sending it. He said the damage 
must have been caused in transit or by Assurant only when it told him a new claim 
would need to be made due to the damage
on the balance of probability the phone was damaged either before Mr G sent it or in 
transit due to him using insufficient packaging to protect the phone and neither is 
Assurants responsibility. The damage voided the warranty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Assurant fairly and reasonably dealt with Mr Gs claim, and I dont 
think it did. Ill explain why.
When Mr G made his original claim he received a replacement phone in settlement which he 
reported to be faulty. Under the policy terms the replacement phone came with a warranty 
which said:
We provide your replacement phone with a full 12 month warranty from the date of 
despatch, which covers it for any mechanical and electrical failures as a result of any 
manufacturing faults or defects
The warranty will not be valid if the defect is caused by misuse, neglect or 
tampering
Assurant says the damage to the replacement phone voided the warranty. I accept the 
warranty wouldnt cover repair of damage to the phone. I cant see that the warranty says 
any damage to the phone will void the warranty. In any event, on a fair and reasonable 
basis, the issue is whether the damage to the replacement phone caused the mechanical 
faults which Mr G reported to Assurant on 30 April 2021.
Assurant says the damage to the phone could cause similar faults to those Mr G reported. 
But I dont think Assurant has sufficiently evidenced that the damage to the phone was more 
likely than not to be the sole or main cause of the mechanical faults. Assurant hasnt 
provided an expert report or opinion to support its belief that the damage did cause the 
faults. And although Assurant says an investigation of the phone wouldnt show the cause of 
the faults that doesnt mean its provided enough evidence to show the damage was the 
cause.   
Theres been a lot of correspondence about the parties dispute on when the damage to the 
replacement phone occurred. I accept Mr G didnt report the faults with the replacement 
phone until about 10 days after he received it and he delayed in returning the phone once 
hed reported the faults. But I dont think that necessarily means the phone was damaged 
when he had it, as Assurant suggests. However in these circumstances, I dont think I need 
to make a finding on when I think the phone was probably damaged because Assurant 
hasnt shown the damage was the cause of the mechanical faults.
Putting things right
As I dont think theres enough evidence that the damage to the replacement phone caused the mechanical faults I dont think it was reasonable for Assurant to refuse to repair/replace 
the phone under the warranty and require Mr G to pay another claim excess. I think its fair 
for Assurant to refund the second £75 claim excess to Mr G.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Assurant General Insurance Limited to refund the second 
£75 claim excess to Mr G.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman