DRN-3927997
The complaint
Mr N complained to Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) that the advice he received in 
2014 was unsuitable. 
What happened
In January 2014, Mr N was advised by Portal to transfer two personal pensions with 
Reassure (with a combined value of around £25,500) to a Novia self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP).
At the time Mr N had two other pension arrangements; a defined benefit scheme with Sara 
Lee with a transfer value of £106,145 and personal pension valued at £46,662 with Standard 
Life. The documentation from the time also records that Mr N was in his mid-40s and in good 
health. He was earning £1,350 (net) per month, and his wife was earning £800 (net) per 
month. Mr N had an outstanding mortgage of £95,000, and £2,500 of credit card debt. He 
had a very small amount of cash in savings.
Portal recommended that Mr N should invest around £12,000, just under 50% of the overall 
funds, into six Secured Bonds. The £12,000 was split equally  roughly  between these six 
bonds. 
The suitability report produced by Portal stated these bonds were suitable as they would 
produce returns to meet Mr Ns income requirements. The bonds were issued by UK PLC 
companies to fund investment projects and had investment terms of between five and ten 
years. Security - such as land, buildings or other valuable assets - was provided by the 
borrower to secure the capital borrowed, and these bonds were illiquid. The suitability report 
also noted that any interest over the first two to three years might be accumulated rather 
than paid to the consumer. 
It seems the remaining funds were invested in liquid regulated investments or cash. There 
was an initial charge of 5%, an on-going adviser fee of 1%, a SIPP charge of 0.5%, and a 
market value reduction (MVR) was applied to one of his plans.
In October 2018 Portal recommended that Mr N also transfer his Standard Life personal 
pension into his Novia SIPP. The transfer value was just over £76,720. 
Mr N first complained to Portal on 2 August 2021, and this complaint centred on the advice 
he received in October 2018. Specifically, Mr N said that he had received notice from Novia 
stating Portal would no longer be his financial adviser, and therefore the ongoing adviser 
charge would cease. This prompted Mr N to query the position; saying he wasnt aware of 
having had any benefit from this adviser service, and that he felt his fees should be returned. 
However, this initial complaint fell away when Mr N met with his new adviser, who told him 
that his secured bonds were high risk. At this point Mr N redirected his attention to concerns 
about the suitability of the original advice he was given in 2014, and it is this issue that forms 
the basis of his current complaint. Mr N has since told us he is no longer interested in 
pursuing his original complaint relating to the adviser service and fees.
Mr N made this second complaint to Portal on 9 September 2021 after he discovered the 
secured bonds had either gone into liquidation or were locked. Mr N says he discovered this 
when he received statements in August 2021 showing a value of around £8,750, while at the 
same time less than £400 was available for withdrawal. 
Portal responded to this second complaint saying that it had been made too late, and that Mr 
N shouldve known he had cause for concern earlier based on his receipt of the following 
information:
The returned application and agreement to the terms dated 13 January 2014, 
An extract from an annual review letter of 26 February 2015 which explained the 
nature of the illiquid funds, 
An annual review letter dated 22 January 2016 which outlined how the plan was 
performing and the risks associated with the funds.
Mr N referred his complaint about the suitability of the 2014 advice to this Service on 1 
February 2022. Portal didnt provide consent for this service to consider the complaint, 
saying it had been brought too late. 
Our investigator considered the reasons Portal gave for the complaint being out of time and 
concluded Mr N had complained within the relevant timescales and, as such, we could 
investigate the complaint. 
Our investigator then went on to consider the merits of the complaint and found that the 
advice Portal gave to Mr N was unsuitable, and that  but for this advice  Mr N would have 
most likely left his pensions where they were. As such, our investigator upheld the complaint 
and asked Portal to pay Mr N compensation.
Portal has not accepted our investigators view on either jurisdiction or merits, and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I note Mr N has informed this Service he has moved the liquid part of his SIPP to a new 
provider however, the illiquid elements of the investment still remain in the Novia SIPP, as 
these cant be moved to the new provider. 
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence to decide whether this is a complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can look at further. Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion 
as our investigator, which is that this is a complaint we can consider under our jurisdiction. 
Ive set out my reasoning below.
When looking at a complaint, the time limits I must consider and apply are set out in DISP 2 
of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. The particular rule thats relevant here 
is DISP 2.8, which says: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service: 
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint. DISP 2.8.2 goes on to state a number of exceptions to the above rule, including cases in 
which the Ombudsman agrees that the failure to meet the deadline was a result of 
exceptional circumstances. 
In Mr Ns case, the event complained of is the advice to switch his pension and invest in the 
recommended funds, which took place in January 2014. This is more than six years before 
the complaint was raised in September 2021, and so it falls outside the window set out under 
part a, above. As such, part b becomes relevant. 
This means I must consider, firstly, whether more than three years has passed since Mr N 
became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that he had cause for 
complaint. Secondly, if so, I must then consider whether his failure to complain within the 
three-year time frame set out under part b was due to exceptional circumstances. 
Mr N brought his complaint in September 2021. Thus, he would be out of time under the 3-
year rule if he had been aware (or ought reasonably to have been aware) that he had cause 
for complaint prior to September 2018. So, I have considered whether Mr N was provided 
with any information prior to this date that would have prompted this awareness.
As stated above, the business has pointed to three different communications to Mr N  the 
application and agreement made in January 2014, the annual review letter of February 2015 
and the annual review letter of January 2016. I have considered these documents, as well as 
all other evidence provided, to determine whether there is anything to suggest Mr N should 
have been aware he had a cause for complaint before September 2018.
The 2014 application and agreement signed by Mr N included details of the adviser firm and 
adviser as well as the initial and ongoing charges. I havent seen anything in this document 
that could have reasonably been expected to alert Mr N that he might have cause for 
complaint about the suitability of the advice. Indeed, had there been, I doubt Mr N wouldve 
signed the agreement at the time. 
Furthermore, when reading the description of the investments at the time of the original 
advice, I can see Mr N was told he wouldnt have access to the secured bonds for between 
five to ten years. As such, am satisfied that any subsequent communications which stated a 
proportion of the fund was illiquid and wasnt accessible would not have triggered alarm bells 
for Mr N, nor set him on the path to discovery of a cause for complaint. Instead, Mr N 
wouldve expected this to be the case. 
The second piece of information Portal has cited is the annual review letter of 26 February 
2015. Only an extract was provided, part of which reads as follows:
How are your investments performing (Capital Secured Bonds)?
Lakeview, Marbella, Motion Picture, Real Estate USA, Strategic Residential and 
Tambaba are not conventional pension funds. They are vehicles through which you 
have loaned money to specific enterprises. Each of these investments:
Is for a specific term, ranging from five to ten years.
Aims to pay you the stated annual return. Returns are paid in the form of cash 
and added to your pension plans bank account. They are not rolled up into 
the fund value. Returns are not guaranteed.
Aims to repay your initial investment capital in full at the end of the term. It is 
important to remember that a guarantee is only as good as the entity that 
offers it. Capital is secured on specific assets.Can be redeemed early at the directors discretion.
At the point Mr N received this letter he was only two years into the recommended 
investment strategy. In my view, this information merely confirmed what Mr N had already 
been told, and there is nothing to suggest there might be any cause for concern. In fact, if 
anything, the confirmation of the possibility of the investments being redeemed early, albeit 
at the directors discretion, is likely to have been reassuring. 
The third piece of evidence Portal has referenced is the annual review letter of 22 January 
2016. This document has been provided to this service in full. It seems the purpose of this 
review letter was to make sure Mr Ns pension was on track to deliver his pension goals as a 
balanced investor, and to tell him how his plan was performing. Although it noted a small fall 
in the fund value of 0.62% since 2015, overall this letter provided robust projections - both in 
fund value and as an income - in terms of what Mr N could receive when he reached 55. It 
further clarified the aims of each of the funds he was invested in. 
The 2016 review letter also said that the cash holdings of £1,383.99 in Mr Ns SIPP bank 
account were too high. As such, Portal recommend leaving only £1,177.04 in the account, 
which would cover the scheme liabilities for three years. Portal recommended investing the 
surplus cash, saying that this (along with changes to Mr Ns existing liquid funds) would 
produce a positive return of £11,500. It is not clear from the letter or any other evidence that 
has been provided exactly what investment strategy Portal was expecting to produce this 
return.
In my view, the positive and reassuring language in this 2016 review letter wouldve been 
likely to strengthen Mr Ns assumption that these investments continued to be suitable for 
him. I havent seen anything that would reasonably have set him on the path to discovery 
that he had cause for complaint. 
In general, I would also note that Portal is suggesting that Mr N shouldve known he had 
cause for complaint because the funds were illiquid, meaning he couldnt access them. But 
at the at the time of advice Mr N was 44, with just over 10 years until his retirement goal of 
55. He couldnt access his pension funds until he was 55 at the earliest anyway, and he 
didnt need or expect access prior to this. So, awareness of the funds being illiquid wouldnt 
have been an obvious concern to him or been likely to prompt him to complain. 
Ive also considered the transfer advice Portal gave to Mr N in 2018, and how that may have 
affected his awareness (or lack thereof) that the advice of 2014 may have been unsuitable. 
Id say its likely that, at that time, there was a good relationship between Portal and Mr N. 
Had Mr N had any concerns about the original advice and its suitability by that point, I think 
its unlikely he would have taken further advice from Portal. However, in the event, Mr N 
received and followed advice which led to his transferring further funds into his Novia SIPP. 
As stated previously, Mr N has told us that it wasnt until he got a new adviser in 2021  
replacing Portals adviser  that he discovered that these investments were high risk, giving 
his cause for complaint. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr N was, or should 
reasonably have been, aware of this earlier. Mr N brought his complaint shortly after this. So, 
it seems to me that Mr N raised his complaint well within the relevant window.
Having reviewed all the evidence available to me, Ive not seen anything to make me think 
Mr N ought reasonably to have been aware he had cause for complaint prior to September 
2018. So, Mr Ns complaint has not been brought outside of the three-year window set out in 
part b of the relevant DISP rule.What Ive decided  and why
Having reached the decision that this complaint falls within our jurisdiction, I have gone on to 
review the merits. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In accordance with the regulations, standards and industry practice at the time, Portal had to 
take reasonable steps to understand Mr Ns financial situation and investment objectives in 
order to ensure recommendations were suitable, as well as acting in accordance with Mr Ns 
best interests.
Furthermore, in 2009 the regulator published considerations for pension switching. One of 
the key issues the FCA identified was that consumers shouldnt be advised to switch to a 
more expensive pension than their existing one(s) without good reason.
The SIPP Portal recommended to Mr N had an annual management charge of 0.5% which 
wasnt an unreasonable amount. However, Portal also charged an initial fee of 5% which 
had a significant impact on the value of the fund, as well as an ongoing advice charge of 1%. 
In addition, I understand an MVR was also applied to one of his plans. Overall, therefore, 
Portals recommendations to transfer into the Novia SIPP appear to have led to a more 
expensive plan.
Ive weighed this higher cost against Mr Ns needs and objectives for retirement, as recorded 
at the time the advice was given and  taking everything into account - Im not persuaded 
there were sufficient reasons to justify the extra expense. 
The retirement needs and objectives were consolidation, improved performance, the desire 
to move away from equity backed funds to specific investments, switching to a cheaper 
scheme, greater fund choice, and the opportunity to take tax free cash at age 55 followed by 
an income at retirement. However, the reasoning behind a number of these points isnt clear. 
For example, Mr N was only 44 at the time of the advice, and so there was no need for him 
to make costly amendments to his pensions arrangements at that point to ensure he could 
access tax free cash 11 years in the future. 
I also have concerns regarding the objective to be able to hold specific investments. This 
point isnt explained and seems unlikely to have been something that Mr N brought to the 
table as one of his key objectives. Instead, it seems more likely that Portal either introduced 
this objective, or guided Mr N towards it, in order to pave the way for the investments they 
then went on to recommend. 
So I dont think Portals recommendation to transfer was suitable  it seems that Mr N was 
advised to switch to more expensive arrangements without good reason. I also note that one 
of the recorded objectives was to save money by switching to a cheaper scheme  which 
appears to be in direct contrast with Portals recommendations. 
In addition, the documents from the advice in January 2014 record that Mr N had no 
previous investment experience, and that he had a balanced attitude to risk. However, the 
unregulated investments Portal recommended carried a significant risk (for example, 
illiquidity, foreign currency risk and valuation difficulties, amongst other factors). As 
unregulated high-risk investments they were entirely unsuitable for investors with a balanced 
attitude to risk. 
Furthermore, the high proportion of Mr Ns pension fund invested in these unregulated 
investments at the outset (just under 50%) wouldve been unsuitable for a customer in Mr 
Ns financial situation, even if he had a high tolerance for risk. I also note the regulators comments on unregulated investments from July 2010, which 
warned about investment schemes that share many of the same characteristics as the 
bonds recommended to Mr N. In such cases, the regulator indicated that it was good 
practice to limit client exposure to unregulated funds to 5% or less of their portfolios. 
In summary, not only were the investments Portal recommended to Mr N in 2014 unsuitable, 
Portal shouldnt have advised Mr N to transfer out of his existing pension arrangements in 
the first place.
Had Portal advised him that it was not in his best interests to transfer out of his existing 
arrangements, I think its likely Mr N would have followed this advice. Therefore, Portal 
should pay Mr N fair compensation as set out below.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr N should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr N would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been 
worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr N's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Portal should pay into Mr N's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr N's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr N wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr N is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr N would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr N £300 for the distress and inconvenience worrying he had lost some of 
his investments.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal Financial deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. Portal Financial should 
give Mr N a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr N asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
Novia SIPP Still exists 
but illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
transferDate of my 
final decision8% simple per year 
from final decision 
to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business receiving 
the complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. It may be 
difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset is 
illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Portal 
Financial should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal Financial pays should be included 
in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr N provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr N's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the Novia SIPP should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal/transfer from the Novia SIPP should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr N's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional 
value in the calculation of compensation.
The Novia SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Novia SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid 
assets, or this is something that Mr N can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr N an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the Novia SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr N's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of 
its calculation to Mr N in a clear, simple format.
 
Ellie Clare
Ombudsman
