DRN-2890335
The complaint
Mr T complains Swift Advances Plc has charged him too much in relation to a loan.
What happened
The background to this case is well known to the parties and had been thoroughly detailed 
by our investigator so Ill only provide a summary here.
Mr T took out a secured loan with Swift in 2006, arranged through a broker
The loan continued for a number of years and Mr T missed some payments
In January 2021, he complained to Swift saying hed made enough payments and 
said it should close the loan and refund him any remaining amount
Swift responded and explained there was still an outstanding balance and it provided 
calculations reminding Mr T of the original loan agreement and how much he had 
agreed to pay back  which he hadnt done yet
It also said some fees had been added in accordance with the loan agreement
Our investigator was satisfied Swift hadnt done anything wrong 
Mr T asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the issues Mr T has raised relate to what he considers to be the original mis-selling 
of the loan. But the loan - and Payment Protection Insurance that went with it - was taken out 
through a broker and it was the broker he had the discussions with. For that reason, I wont 
be considering those issues in this decision about Swifts actions.
Mr Ts complaint is that he feels hes paid enough on the loan already and Swift should 
arrange for the loan to be closed with no further payments required from him. Hes not given 
any specific reasons for this view  although he has indicated he thinks the interest hes 
paying is high and says he wasnt advised of this when taking out the loan. 
So Ive looked at the agreement Mr T signed when he took the loan out. I consider it to 
written in a way that is clear and not misleading. He borrowed £17,000 and various fees 
were added to this balance  including, but not limited to, insurance and a fee to his broker  
bringing the total borrowing to £22,252.
Mr T borrowed the money over 25 years and the agreement sets out the interest rate - 
13.7% APR - and the total amount of interest he would be charged - £43,951 - over that 
term. If all payments were made in line with the loan agreement, the loan would be repaid in 
2031. Mr T has signed the loan agreement, accepting the terms on which Swift was willing to 
lend to him.
The statements provided by Swift show that a number of repayments werent made on time 
and this has resulted in some fees and interest being added to the loan. From what Ive 
seen, these have been applied in line with the terms of the loan agreement. I also 
acknowledge Mr T has been making some overpayments for a number of years.
Mr T hasnt said he thinks hes overpaid on the loan, or accused Swift of calculating the 
repayments incorrectly. Simply that he feels hes paid too much in the circumstances. While 
in hindsight Mr T may regret his choice to take out this loan, I wouldnt consider this to be a 
valid reason to direct Swift to do anything differently. 
Furthermore, looking over the history of the loan repayments, Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Mr T has already made enough payments to clear the balance, nor have I seen Swift has 
made any calculation errors when working out his balance. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded Swift has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in refusing to close the loan and give Mr T any money back. Its clear theres still a balance 
outstanding on the loan and given it isnt due to be repaid for another 10 years this isnt 
surprising. 
So I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman