DRN-3591267
The complaint
Mr A complained that advice he was given to switch his paid up pension benefits from his 
existing pension provider (Firm A) to Citibank Life was unsuitable, because there is no 
evidence to indicate he was made aware in any meaningful way of any benefits he would be 
giving up or the level of risk that he was exposing himself to by transferring away from his 
existing arrangement.
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Limited (Sun Life) acquired the pension from 
Citibank Life, so it is Sun Life that is responsible for this complaint.
Mr A is represented in this case by a Claims Management Company. For reasons of clarity, I 
will refer to all correspondence as though coming directly from Mr A.
What happened
Mr A met with a Citibank representative in February 1993, completing and signing a financial 
questionnaire. This confirmed that Mr A was 33 years old and not contributing to any 
pension at the time. His risk appetite was recorded as balanced and that he wanted to 
invest into a managed fund to achieve growth in the value of his funds. A recommendation 
was made to switch the with profits funds held with Firm A to a Citibank Life pension and 
make monthly contributions until a specified retirement age of 65. 
Mr A confirmed his wish to transfer his existing benefits but declined the option to make 
further regular payments as he did not have the available budget to make monthly 
contributions.
A subsequent meeting took place between Citibanks representative and Mr A in August 
1993, where a further assessment of his financial circumstances was undertaken. The 
Confidential Financial Planning Profile was completed to show that his circumstances were 
largely unchanged since the meeting 6 months earlier. His financial priority was recorded as 
planning for retirement and he was assessed as medium in terms of risks and expected 
rewards.
Under the notes section Mr A signed to confirm that the following points had been explained 
to him: the transfer value would be subject to a 5% bid offer spread, which equated to c£49, 
and that his pension benefits were not guaranteed and could go down as well as going up. 
In October 1993, a transfer c£2,870 commenced, from a pension held with Firm A which 
contained no safeguarded benefits, to Citibank Life. 
A Liberator Citibank Life Personal Retirement Plan accepted a transfer of just over £2,720 of 
non-protected rights on 23 June 1994 from a Personal Retirement Contract with Firm A 
which was a defined contribution private pension that had been paid up since October 1990. 
Although there had been some other benefits associated with this pension, these had been 
lost when the policy was paid up, prior to the advice he received from Citibank Life.
In July 2015, Mr A took all his pension benefits totaling around £17,880, under the rules 
governing small pension pots.
In April 2021 he complained to Sun Life that the transfers that were recommended were 
unsuitable. In particular, he complained that he had not been made aware of any benefits he 
would lose as a result of the transfers, or of the level of risk associated with his new pension 
arrangements.
Sun Life responded on 27 May 2021, explaining that it did not agree and would not be 
upholding Mr As complaint. It said it believed that the recommendations were appropriate 
for Mr A at the time they were made and that the potential disadvantages of moving any 
preserved pension benefits had been explained by the adviser. Mr A then brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and formed the view that the complaint should not be 
upheld. Mr A disagreed, so this case has been passed to me to review the evidence again 
and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mr As complaint.
I can appreciate that this will be disappointing for him, so let me explain how I have reached 
my decision.
Essentially, I have to decide whether Sun Life did anything wrong when the adviser made 
these recommendations to Mr A in 1993 and 1994. 
Looking at the recommendations that were made to Mr A, the documents he was provided 
and the notes both he and the adviser made, I think its reasonable to conclude the adviser 
did provide an appropriate level of information and explanation to Mr A which would have 
allowed him to be aware of the key elements that related to these transfers. 
For example, the pension illustration he was provided in August 1993 included the following 
statement:
The plan is unit linked. Contributions are allocated directly to accumulator units in the 
pensions managed Fund, the value of units can fall as well as rise. The amount allocated to 
units is 100%. 
The adviser noted at the time that:
I have explained the following points to the client:
1. Client will lose a total of £49.95 by transferring
2. Client will be subjected to a 5% bid offer spread on entering into the Liberator
3. As transfer is from a unit link to unit link environment there is no tax free cash at 
retirement limited to growth of pension which is not guaranteed as market can go 
down as well as up.
This statement went on to confirm that Mr A: understands this but still would like to transfer into Citibank Life as he already has a PRP 
with the company so would like to have all pension rights under one roof and would like to 
take advantage of Citibank Life pension fund. 
This was signed by both Mr A and the adviser.
Mr A also signed a handwritten note dated 11 August 1993 which stated:
I would like to transfer my frozen pension and protected rights in the Citibank Life Personal 
Retirement Plan. It has been explained and I understand the comparison and that I will be 
losing £49.53. I have a pension with Citibank already that I transferred via Liberator and I 
would like to have all my pension rights under the one roof and take advantage of Citibank 
pension growth.
The recommendation made to Mr A was that he invest in the same unit linked fund that his 
earlier transfer had been put in and that the objective of this was:
to maximise pension on retirement by taking advantage of managed funds growth. 
Regular savings were also recommended at this time but Mr A declined to make these, as 
he felt at the time he could not afford to make them.
Taken together, and alongside other similar evidence I find it reasonable to conclude that Mr 
A was made aware of the nature of the investment, confirmed his reasons for making the 
transfer, the benefits he hoped to achieve and that there were costs associated with making 
it. Further evidence that Mr A had engaged with and considered the information and 
recommendations he had been given was that he did not choose to follow it completely  he 
had considered and rejected the option of making further monthly payments, choosing to 
transfer his existing benefits rather than actively seeking to grow his funds by making further 
contributions.
Turning to the issue of whether the arrangement recommended was suitable for Mr A, I think 
it is important to note that I have to consider whether it was suitable at the time it was 
provided to Mr A, and not with the benefit of hindsight. Given that Mr A was 33 at the time, 
with over 30 years until he planned to take his benefits and a stated aim of achieving capital 
growth over the long term with a medium attitude to risk, I conclude that this arrangement 
was indeed suitable for him at the time.
Given these circumstances, I find it difficult to say Sun Life did anything wrong given what 
was expected of it at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
As a result, I will not be asking Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Limited to do 
anything else
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman