DRN-1082139
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has turned down a 
storm damage claim he made on his buildings insurance policy. Mr Bs also unhappy with 
the service he got from Lloyds.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr B noticed mortar on his path and damage to his roof He first made a claim 
to his home emergency insurer. Engineers came out and put up scaffolding. They gave Mr B 
a quote for repairs to his roof. But they had concerns that Mr Bs roof contained asbestos. So 
they werent willing to start the works until the roof had been tested and the asbestos had 
been removed and disposed of.
Mr B got a quote for the testing and removal of the affected parts of the roof. He called 
Lloyds to make a claim for these costs. Lloyds asked Mr B if he could provide it with a report 
showing whatd caused the roof damage so it could check whether it was something the 
policy covered. Mr B thought the damage had likely happened during storms the previous 
winter.
Lloyds spoke to Mr Bs builder who wasnt able to give it a definite cause of damage. So it 
appointed a surveyor to inspect Mr Bs roof. The surveyor found the damage was down to 
deteriorated soffits and mortar, rather than because of something the policy covered. And 
Lloyds said there hadnt been any storm conditions around the time of Mr Bs claim. So 
Lloyds turned down Mr Bs claim.
Mr B was unhappy with Lloyds decision and complained to Lloyds. He also felt one of 
Lloyds call handlers had been rude and arrogant. Lloyds considered Mr Bs concerns. But it 
didnt change its decision about the claim. And it felt the call handler had been polite and 
professional during Mr Bs call with her.
So Mr B asked us to look into his complaint. He told us that dealing with the claim had 
impacted on his health and had left him frightened and vulnerable. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He checked local weather 
reports for around the time of Mr Bs claim and didnt think thered been any storm 
conditions. He thought if winter storms had caused the damage; its likely Mr B wouldve 
noticed it earlier. He felt it was fair for Lloyds to rely on its surveyors report to turn down the 
claim. The investigator also thought the service Mr B had received from the call handler had 
been calm and professional.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. He felt the investigator hadnt considered that on the 
balance of probabilities, his home had probably been damaged by past winter storms. He 
said he wasnt a qualified roofer and didnt generally check the eaves. He didnt think the 
investigator had considered the photo evidence or the fact the home emergency insurer had 
accepted his claim. He also felt the investigator hadnt considered the impact the matter had had on his health. Or the risk of injury from falling debris, given the scaffolding was still up at 
his home.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr B, I think Lloyds has treated him fairly. Ill explain why.
The storm claim
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Lloyds has defined what it means by a storm in its policy. It says: 
We consider a storm to be violent weather like strong winds of 55mph or more, torrential 
rain, heavy snow, or hail that causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Like the investigator, Ive carefully considered the local weather reports for around the time 
Mr B made his claim.  Local weather reports are generally the best source of evidence we 
have to show the prevailing weather conditions at the time. The strongest gust of wind 
reported during that period was 36mph on 11 June 2019. I dont think this wind was strong 
enough to be considered as a storm force wind. 
So I think the answer to the first question is no. There werent storm conditions or around 
the date of the claim.  This means I think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr Bs claim.
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly that winter storms caused the damage to his roof. So I think 
it was reasonable for Lloyds to speak to his builder to gain their professional opinion about 
what had caused the damage. Lloyds records say the builder told it he was unable to 
confirm what the damage was, because it could be a number of things. He said it could be 
down to storm, but it wasnt definite. The report Ive seen from the builders Mr Bs home 
emergency insurer sent out also doesnt say storm was the cause of the damage.
So Lloyds asked a surveyor to inspect Mr Bs roof. I think this was a fair and reasonable 
response. The surveyor didnt think the damage they saw was due to storm damage. They 
found the damage was due to deteriorated mortar, which isnt covered by Mr Bs policy. On 
balance, given neither Mr Bs builder nor Lloyds surveyor found storm was the most likely 
cause of the damage to Mr Bs roof; I also think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down his claim 
on this basis too.
I appreciate Mr Bs home emergency insurer accepted his claim. But Lloyds isnt bound by 
the decision of another insurer. And what the Lloyds policy covers is likely to be different to what the home emergency insurer covers. So I cant fairly tell Lloyds to accept Mr Bs claim 
because another insurer was prepared to. 
The service Mr B received
Ive listened carefully to calls between Mr B and Lloyds. I appreciate Mr B felt he received 
poor service from the call handler. But I think the call handler remained calm and polite 
during her calls with Mr B. She clearly explained what the next steps in handling his claim 
would be and set out the claims process. She acknowledged that Mr B wasnt happy with 
how shed handled his call and arranged to refer his complaints onto Lloyds customer 
experience team. I think this was an appropriate response. So I dont think the call handler 
treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably.
I understand Mr B is in poor health and Im sorry to hear about the impact this claim has had 
on him. But while I dont doubt the claims been stressful for him, I cant fairly hold Lloyds 
responsible for this. Thats because I think its treated him fairly and considered his claim 
reasonably. And it doesn't look like Lloyds put up the scaffolding at Mr Bs home, so it isnt 
responsible for getting this taken down. So overall, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman