DRN-3116045
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with their claim against 
their travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
UKI has asked us to deal separately with Mr and Mrs Ds two complaints. This complaint is 
about the amount of information UKI asked Mr and Mrs D to provide in support of their claim 
and the difficulty Mr and Mrs D had in contacting UKI initially. 
Mr and Mrs D also complain about the amount UKI paid in settlement of their claim and how 
it handled their claim. Thats dealt with separately. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs D have travel insurance as a benefit of a current 
account. They purchased certain upgrades to cover them on a planned cruise. They 
departed on 1 March 2020 for a 43 night cruise starting on 6 March 2020.  
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. On 
12 March 2020, the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office advised certain    
at-risk groups against cruises. On 16 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Ds cruise was curtailed. 
During their return travel, they lost one of their two suitcases. 
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs D made a claim against their policy. They had some difficulty 
contacting UKI and became frustrated with the amount of documentation UKI requested 
in support of their claim. They complained to UKI. 
UKI sent Mr and Mrs D its final response to this complaint on 11 August 2020. It said that 
it required the information it had asked for in order to consider their claim and that 
changes in its way of working due to the covid-19 pandemic meant there had been some 
delays.
Mr and Mrs D want UKI to pay their claim and to pay them compensation for the time 
theyve spent dealing with this matter and their inconvenience. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had 
treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly. The investigator said that the policy requires                   
Mr and Mrs D to provide UKI with proof of ownership and value of the items for which 
they claim. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator. They said that UKIs insistence on proof 
of purchase for all the items is unreasonable and unrealistic. Mr and Mrs D said that they 
understood that UKI wouldnt dispute their claim. They asked that an ombudsman 
consider their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
Subject to certain terms and conditions, Mr and Mrs Ds policy provides cover for lost or 
stolen baggage. One of the special conditions relating to the cover is: 
Special conditions
[]
 You must provide us with proof of ownership and value for the items of baggage for which 
you are claiming to substantiate your claim. If you do not, it may affect your claim.
[]
The policy also says:
General Exclusions and General Conditions
[]
4. Evidence Of Claims
You or your legal representative must provide at your own expense all certificates, 
information and evidence that we need in order to consider your claim;
[]
was UKI at fault in requesting information or in its initial handling of the claim?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a duty to handle claims promptly 
and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
 Mr and Mrs D provided UKI with proof of travel and proof of loss. UKI doesnt appear 
to dispute that Mr and Mrs Ds suitcase was lost in the way that they have described. 
 As Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs Ds policy requires that they provide UKI with proof 
of ownership and value for the items for which they claim in order to substantiate 
their claim. It says that if they dont do so, it may affect their claim. I appreciate why 
the policy has this provision in order to protect UKI from false or exaggerated claims.
 UKI asked Mr and Mrs D for certain information, including proof of ownership and 
estimated costs of replacement. It said that it would accept pictures as proof of 
ownership. UKI is entitled to ask for that information under the terms and conditions 
of the policy. I dont think that UKIs requests were unreasonable or unduly onerous. 
Mr and Mrs D provided a schedule showing the items they claimed, the estimated 
costs and such evidence of ownership as they had.
 Mr and Mrs D say that it was difficult to navigate the website to submit their claim and 
to contact UKI. They complain that UKI sent them duplicate e-mails requesting 
information. This service isnt the regulator, so I cant direct UKI about how it 
conducts its business. I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs D had difficulty making their 
claim and that UKIs responses were taking longer than wed usually expect. But in 
the context of the unprecedented demands arising out of the pandemic, I dont think 
that I can fairly say that UKI was at fault here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman