DRN-3365967
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has declined a claim made 
on their travel insurance policy.
All references to IPA include its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs E booked a trip abroad to Africa which was due to take place in May 2020. That 
trip didnt go ahead due to the global impact of the Covid-19 at the time. 
However, Mr and Mrs E rebooked the trip for May 2021. Due to the global impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic at the time, that trip didnt go ahead either. 
At the end of May 2019, Mr and Mrs E had taken out an annual, bronze, multi-trip travel 
insurance policy  underwritten by IPA - which expired on 31 May 2020 (the policy). They 
made a claim on the policy for their pre-paid costs of the trip.
The claim was declined by IPA because the claim arose outside of the period of insurance. 
Eventually, the tour provider agreed to refund Mr and Mrs E 70% of the amount theyd paid 
them, but the amount Mr and Mrs E received back was less than that due to currency 
changes and charges. The tour provider also issued a credit note to Mr and Mrs E to use as 
a deposit for future travel. 
Mr and Mrs E say they have been left out of pocket and IPA hasnt acted fairly by not 
covering their pre-paid costs of the trip.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs E disagree so their complaint has been passed to me to look at everything 
afresh to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA has an obligation to consider claims fairly and reasonably and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim
Under the policy:
Period of insurance means if annual multi trip cover is selected: the period of 12 
months for which we have accepted the premium as stated in the schedule. During 
this period any trip not exceeding 24 days is coveredUnder these policies Section 
A - Cancellation cover will be operative from the date stated in the schedule or the 
time of booking any trip (whichever is the later date) and terminates on 
commencement of any trip
Trip means any holiday, business or pleasure trip or journey made by you within the 
area of travel shown in the schedule which begins and ends in your home area or 
place of business during the period of insurance
Having considered everything  including the above - I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es 
complaint. I know they will be very disappointed, but I dont think IPA has unreasonably 
declined their claim. Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that the trip booked for May 2020 didnt go ahead. But its not entirely 
clear whether that trip was cancelled and rebooked or whether it was rearranged for 
May 2021. But in the circumstances of this case, I dont think it matters. Thats 
because Im satisfied from an email Ive seen from the company who arranged the 
trip for Mr and Mrs E dated 16 April 2020 that steps were being taken to rearrange a 
similar trip in 2021 and that all the suppliers had agreed to honour the same rates so 
long as the travel dates didnt fall within the high season  with the only additional 
costs being taxes for the air fare and possibly the difference in price of the original air 
fare. The trip booked for May 2020 was effectively moved to a year later.
The cancellation section of the policy says it will cover irrecoverable unused travel 
and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges (up to the financial limit). The 
pre-paid costs incurred by Mr and Mrs E in respect of the trip they were due to take in 
May 2020, which didnt end up going ahead, werent irrecoverable at that stage. 
Thats because theyd effectively been set against the subsequent booking of a trip in 
May 2021. 
The trip booked for May 2021 didnt go ahead. But Im satisfied that IPA hasnt 
unfairly concluded this trip fell outside the period of insurance in respect of the policy 
theyd taken out and paid an annual premium for in May 2019.  
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to conclude that because the 
original trip was meant to take place during the period of insurance, IPA should still 
consider a claim for the rebooked trip not going ahead when Mr and Mrs E hadnt 
renewed the policy when it expired at the end of May 2020.
IPA contacted Mr and Mrs E at the end of May 2020 confirming that the policy had 
been renewed and provided details of the renewed policy. Mr and Mrs E emailed IPA 
on the same date saying they didnt require the policy and had already cancelled 
upon receipt of the renewal quote.  
I dont think IPA has unfairly concluded that the claim wasnt covered  even though 
the 2021 trip resulted from the May 2020 trip not going ahead. The May 2021 trip 
didnt fall within the period of insurance. So, I dont need to go on to consider whether 
the circumstances which led to a claim were, or ought reasonably to have been, 
covered as an insured event under the cancellation section of the policy. Given my 
findings above, thats immaterial to the outcome of this complaint.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman