DRN-1761469
The complaint
Mr V complains that when he cancelled motor insurance policies he had arranged through 
One Sure Insurance Limited (One Sure):
it failed to carry out his instructions fully; and
tried to charge him an unfair amount in respect of the cancellation.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr V bought a van for a business he was proposing to start, and arranged 
insurance for this through One Sure. However, within the 14 day cancellation period allowed 
by the policy he changed his mind and told One Sure he wanted to cancel the three policies 
it had arranged.
One Sure said the cancellation charges for the short time the policies had been in force 
would be some £830, less the deposit of £575 he had already paid. Mr V complained about 
this, and also enlisted the help of an advice centre.
After getting the agreement of the policy insurer, One Sure said it would reduce the charges 
substantially so that Mr V was instead entitled to a refund of £295.04. However, it said one of 
the policies  a public liability policy  was still in force. Mr V was unhappy about this, and 
how he had been treated by One Sure, and complained to us.
Our investigator said One Sure had supplied evidence that it had notified the insurer of the 
public liability policy of Mr Vs cancellation. But by the time it did this, the insurer was 
unwilling to backdate the cancellation to when the policy began. So One Sure agreed that it 
would refund the full premium for this policy to Mr V. 
One Sure had also waived its own charges for arranging the policies, which were provided 
for in the policy documents. So although the investigator thought One Sure hadnt acted 
correctly to implement Mr Vs instructions to cancel all the policies, he thought it had done 
enough to correct its initial mistakes by waiving its charges and agreeing to refund the public 
liability premiums Mr V had paid. So he didnt recommend that it should pay Mr V any further 
compensation.
Mr V responded to say, in summary, that:
he had difficulty communicating with One Sure initially to notify the cancellation to it; 
One Sure had tried to get him to pay a large amount in cancellation charges before 
he complained and got the assistance of the advice centre, after which it reduced the 
charges substantially. He thought this behaviour was wrong;
he had instalments of the public liability policy premium taken from his bank account 
for nine months after the policy was cancelled; and
he had suffered distress and inconvenience in having to contact One Sure to get it to 
deal properly with the cancellation and reduce the charges it initially tried to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Vs upset and frustration at what has happened. He told One Sure within the 
14 day cancellation period that he wanted to cancel all the policies, but:
initially he was quoted what he thought was an unreasonable amount in cancellation 
charges;
he had to spend time, and involve an advice centre, before One Sure agreed to 
reduce these charges; and
his public liability policy wasnt initially cancelled with the others, with the result that 
premiums were taken from his bank account for nine months afterwards.
Mr V thinks that One Sure deliberately tried to charge more for the cancellation than it was 
entitled to, and its failure to cancel the public liability policy was also deliberate. I dont think 
that was the case.
One Sure was the broker for the policies. Initially it just passed on to Mr V the refund the 
insurer had calculated in accordance with the written policy terms. When Mr V complained 
about the amount, One Sure went back to the insurer and asked if it would reduce this, 
which it agreed to do. One Sure also waived all its own charges. This resulted in the refund 
of £295.04 being paid to Mr V.
It seems One Sure hadnt acted to cancel the public liability policy at this point. When One 
Sure went back to the insurer to ask if it would backdate the cancellation of this policy to the 
date Mr V told One Sure to cancel, it wasnt willing to do so. That is why monthly premiums 
for this policy continued to be taken from Mt Vs bank account. However, One Sure has 
acknowledged its mistake and credited the full premium for this policy - £69.81 - to Mr Vs 
account, although it hasnt as yet paid this to him.
To summarise:
I agree with Mr V that the amount he was initially quoted for cancellation was 
excessive in the circumstances. However, this was calculated by the insurer. When 
Mr V complained to One Sure, it went back to the insurer and got it to agree a 
reduction. It also waived all its own fees on the policy. Having looked at the resulting 
cancellation figure, I think it is fair and reasonable;
One Sure failed to pass on the instruction to cancel the public liability policy promptly, 
so that monthly premiums continued to be charged to Mr V. However, it has agreed 
to refund the whole policy premium to him without any charge being made, which is 
more than he is strictly entitled to; and
One Sure made no charge for its own work dealing with the cancellation, which it was 
entitled to do. So while it made a mistake in not cancelling the public liability policy 
promptly, I think it has done enough to compensate Mr V by waiving all its own 
charges and agreeing to refund the whole public liability policy premium. Subject to 
paying this to Mr V now, I dont require it to do anything more.
Putting things right
I think One Sure should pay Mr V the money set out in my final decision below.My final decision
One Sure has already offered to pay Mr V £69.81 and credited this amount to his account, 
and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that One Sure Insurance Limited should now pay this £69.81 to Mr V.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman