DRN-1880930
The complaint
Mr E says he was mis-sold a mobile phone insurance policy by The Carphone 
Warehouse Ltd (CPW).
What happened
Mr E bought a phone from a CPW store along with an insurance policy in April 2017. In 
March 2019, when Mr E was due a phone upgrade, he says he became aware that the 
policy had been added to his contract  without his knowledge or consent. 
Mr E complained to CPW that the policy had been mis-sold. CPW looked into the matter and 
rejected his complaint.
Unhappy with CPWs decision, Mr E complained to us. Our investigator looked in to the 
complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
Since Mr E didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Those selling insurance are required to provide customers with clear information about any
policy they are selling, which would include how long it will last for and the price. If the policy
is being recommended, which this one appears to have been, they would also have to take 
steps to ensure it was suitable for the customer.
Mr E says he didnt know hed been sold the policy and that he didnt agree to it. He also 
says he suffers from some health conditions and that the sales person took advantage of 
him. I cant say for sure what happened at the time, but Ive thought carefully about what 
hes said together with the paperwork from the time thats still available. 
For example, I can see Mr E signed an Insurance & Tech Support Certificate. In my opinion 
the information on the certificate is sufficiently clear. The document is two pages long, but 
the second page is a direct debit guarantee. The information about the policy is all on the 
first page and there are three boxes Mr E was required to tick and a space for him to sign to 
confirm he was taking the insurance.
The boxes include one which says: I confirm I have read the Important Information on this
Certificate and that I have answered any questions the sales consultant has asked, including
whether I may have alternative cover... The other boxes relate to the significant exclusions
of the policy and the last of these says the insurance isnt compulsory.
Obviously, its difficult for me to be sure what was asked of Mr E at the time and what he
was told about the policy verbally. But the paperwork provided to him doesnt suggest to me 
that he was mis-led in any way. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest his health 
prevented him from understanding the agreement he was entering into or was otherwise a 
significant factor in the sale. 
The documents drew Mr Es attention to the possibility he might have alternative cover. And, 
although Mr E says he was already covered through insurance held because he lived in a 
care home, weve asked for more information about that and havent received anything back. 
So, based on the available information, I cant fairly say that Mr E already held like-for-like 
cover to the extent that he didnt need the policy CPW sold him.
I realise Mr E says he was surprised to learn in 2019 that hed taken out insurance in 2017 
but I consider it likely he was aware of the insurance at the time of the sale and, perhaps, 
subsequently failed to recall it.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman