DRN-2016800
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that he's been unable to access his Barclaycard account online or through 
the mobile banking app. Barclaycard is a trading name of Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
What happened
Mr G has a Barclaycard account, and has explained that he relies on the bank's banking app 
and online access to monitor his spending and check his statements. His bills are paid by 
direct debit. 
In September 2019 he found that he was unable to access his Barclaycard account, either 
using the app or online. He contacted Barclaycard and was told that there was a known 
problem with both the app and with online access, which the bank was trying to resolve. Mr 
G was initially told the issue would take a few days to resolve, but that turned out not to be 
the case, and it persisted for rather longer than that.   
Because Mr G was unable to use the app or online banking, he asked that the bank send 
him paper statements in the meantime. He says he didn't receive these. 
Barclaycard offered to help Mr G resolve the online account access issues, but Mr G says he 
was unable to contact the relevant people because of the number of customers with similar 
issues.
Barclaycard reviewed what had happened. It said the IT problems it had been experiencing 
had been resolved. If Mr G continued to experience difficulties, it was because it seemed Mr 
G had locked his log-in details; it wasn't because of any continuing problems with its 
systems. 
Barclaycard also said it had arranged for Mr G to be sent paper statements, and its own 
records showed these were being sent. If Mr G wasn't receiving, that appeared to be down 
to issues with the post, not Barclaycard's systems. 
Barclaycard did however accept that it was responsible for the initial problems and that it 
hadn't given Mr G clear information when he first discussed them. It paid him £100 in 
compensation. 
Mr G didn't accept that, however, and referred his complaint to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered it. He broadly agreed with the bank and took the view that it had 
done enough to resolve things. Mr G didn't accept the investigator's view, however, and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, However, I've reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.  
As I've indicated, Barclaycard acknowledges that it had technical issues with its app and with 
online access in around September 2019. There was media coverage at the time. It accepts 
too that it didn't provide Mr G with correct information about how long that might take to 
resolve. For that, it's paid compensation of £100.
However, it says too that it has resolved that issue, and I accept that it has. Barclaycard's 
records indicate that any continuing problems Mr G may have are unrelated to its own 
technical issues of around a year ago.
I'm satisfied too that Barclaycard has updated its records and has been sending Mr G paper 
statements as he requested. I can see that the address it has on file is the same that Mr G 
provided to this service. If, therefore, he isn't receiving statements, I don't believe that's the 
fault of Barclaycard, and I can't therefore fairly ask it to compensate him. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I believe Barclays Bank UK PLC has done 
enough to resolve Mr G's complaint and I don't require it to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman