DRN-3036322
The complaint
Mrs K complains that she was mis-sold a personal contract purchase agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance plc. Shes also unhappy about excess mileage charges and damage 
charges when her agreement ended.  
What happened
In June 2015 Mrs K was supplied with a car and entered into a persona contract purchase 
agreement with Vauxhall. The duration of the agreement was 36 months. The purchase 
price of the car was £19,390 and Mrs K paid a cash deposit of £4,500. 
In April 2018 Mrs K decided to voluntary terminate the agreement. The car was inspected, 
and Vauxhall advised Mrs K that she was liable to pay damage charges of £262 and excess 
mileage charges of £1217.52. 
Mrs K raised a complaint. She said shed been mis-sold the agreement because she hadnt 
been told that she was entering into a personal contract purchase agreement. She also felt 
shed been misled by the salesman about the mileage allowance. Mrs K said shed paid a 
large deposit and thought she was buying the car under a loan agreement.
In response, Vauxhall said that Mrs K had exceeded the mileage limit and was liable to pay 
the excess mileage charges. As a goodwill gesture it waived the damage charges. Vauxhall 
didnt think that the agreement had been mis-sold and said Mrs K had signed the agreement 
to indicate that she had read and understood the terms.
Mrs K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Since then, Vauxhall 
has agreed to settle the excess mileage charges, which Mrs K agreed. The damage charges 
were waived in the final response letter. So, our investigator looked into the mis-selling 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the agreement clearly showed 
what type of agreement it was and said she didnt think it had been mis-sold.
Mrs K didnt agree. She said shed emailed and called Vauxhall about the agreement as 
soon as shed got home from the dealership. She said that if shed understood the nature of 
the agreement, she wouldve cancelled it, but the dealership had told her that she couldnt 
cancel so shed tried her best to alleviate the mileage allowance which (she says) she hadnt 
agreed to. Mrs K said that Vauxhall hadnt responded to her emails and that it should refund 
the deposit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive limited my decision to the aspect of Mrs Ks complaint which relates to the mis-selling of 
the agreement, because the other aspects  damage charges and excess mileage charges 
 have been resolved.
In order for me to uphold Mrs Ks complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the agreement 
was mis-sold or misrepresented. A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which 
induces a consumer to enter into a contract. Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974, a finance provider can be liable for statements made by the dealership before the 
contract is entered into.
I wasnt present when Mrs K discussed the purchase of the car at the dealership. So, I cant 
be certain of exactly what was said. There arent any notes of the discussions and the 
salesperson hasnt provided a statement. In circumstances like this, I have to look at the 
contemporaneous documents to decide whats most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at the finance agreement and related documents. The agreement states that it is 
a persona contract purchase agreement. All of the key information Id expect to see is clearly 
set out, including the amount of credit, the interest rate, the length of the agreement and the 
deposit paid. It also states what the mileage allowance is and says that excess mileage 
charges will apply if the allowance is exceeded.
I can see that Mrs K has signed the agreement. Id expect a consumer to read an agreement 
before signing it. In signing, Mrs K has agreed to be legally bound by the terms and 
conditions.
Ive looked at the email which Mrs K sent to Vauxhall on 20 June 2015, the day she entered 
into the agreement. Its clear from the email that Mrs K was querying the mileage allowance 
and asking for this to be increased. Vauxhall hasnt been able to provide a copy if its 
response to the email  it has explained that its email retention period is 3 years, so it no 
longer has records going back to 2015. In any event, Im not persuaded that the email of 
itself supports a finding of mis-sale or misrepresentation of the agreement, as against a 
background of the agreement and the related documents making it very clear that the 
agreement was a personal contract purchase agreement, as opposed to a fixed sum loan 
agreement.
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the agreement 
was mis-sold. 
Mrs K has raised an issue about the size of the deposit paid. Generally, its up to a 
consumer to decide how much of a deposit to put towards an agreement. In this case, I can 
see that Mrs K paid £4500. This reduced the amount of credit and accordingly reduced the 
monthly payments. I cant see that Vauxhall has made an error in calculating the total 
amount of credit (taking account of the deposit) or the monthly payments.
Taking everything into consideration, Im unable to say that the agreement was mis-sold, so I 
wont be asking Vauxhall to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman