DRN-3324211
The complaint
Mrs R on behalf of Mr and Mrs R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked their account 
and prevented them from completing the purchase of their home. She would like 
compensation for the distress and a letter of apology. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had an account with HSBC.
Mrs R told us they sold their house in May 2020. They also sold furniture and personal items 
and Mrs R said the proceeds of these sales were deposited into their account in cash.  Mrs 
R has told us she provided the branch staff with documentary evidence of the sales of items 
when she deposited the cash in branch.
The purchase of their new property was delayed, and Mrs R has said they were in rented 
accommodation waiting for the completion.  The purchase of their new property was due to 
compete on 15 October 2020.
On 30 September 2020 HSBC contacted Mrs R, they wanted to discuss the account. Mrs R 
was uncomfortable discussing things on the phone and said she would go to the branch to 
discuss in person.  Due to Mr Rs ill health and numerous hospital appointments Mrs R didnt 
end up going into branch.
When they went to the solicitors to complete on their purchase, they found out that their 
account had been blocked.
Mrs R has said she provided HSBC with proof of the source of the funds in her account.  
Despite this HSBC didnt unblock the account. Mrs R has said when she went into branch 
she was made to wait a long time to see the bank manager and she was put through to a 
team that dont take calls from consumers so they put the phone down on her.
HSBC said that the account had been blocked on 14 October 2020 and unblocked on 22 
October 2020. 
Mrs R complained to HSBC  they said they had done nothing wrong by reviewing the 
account.
Mrs R complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said 
HSBC had acted fairly when they reviewed the account and hadnt delayed the process. He 
did think HSBC had provided poor customer service in the way it had treated Mrs R by 
making her wait in branch and being passed to the wrong team which resulted in the phone 
being hung up on her. He thought £50 compensation was reasonable for the distress 
caused. 
Mrs R was unhappy with the view. She said this was a very stressful situation and her and 
Mr R felt they would be left homeless. Mrs R has said she contacted the bank daily offering 
to provide any paperwork that would assist their review. She has mentioned she was so 
concerned that her mental health suffered.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and block.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr and Mrs Rs account. UK legislation 
places extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must 
establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and 
there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. 
These obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied HSBC were complying with 
these obligations when they reviewed Mr and Mrs Rs account. 
HSBC were entitled to review and block the account under the terms and conditions. I 
recognise that the block came at a very inconvenient time for Mr and Mrs R but looking at 
everything I dont think HSBC acted unfairly when they reviewed and blocked their account.
Mrs R has said they were able to complete on their purchase.  She has told us how stressful 
the whole situation was. She has mentioned that she offered to provide paperwork to the 
bank and contacted them daily. Mr and Mrs Rs account was blocked from 14 October 2020 
to 22 October 2020.I appreciate that during that time she didnt know how long the block 
would be in place for. But Im satisfied there was no delay on the part of HSBC when they 
carried out their review.
Mrs R has said she would like compensation for the treatment she received in branch. She 
says she was made to wait in branch for three hours and she was put through to a 
department that doesnt deal with the public, so they didnt speak to her. I appreciate Mrs R 
would have liked to have spoken to someone who would explain the reason for the review 
and block of the account but HSBC arent obliged to let her know the reasons for the block 
and review and this may have contributed to the perceived lack of reassurance. But I cant 
say HSBC have done anything wrong in not providing her with this information either in the 
week of the block or subsequent to that.
I appreciate Mrs R was put through to a team that dont speak to members of the public but 
only to internal bank staff. I think this was a mistake by HSBC staff and it would have caused 
Mrs R distress. The investigator has awarded £50 compensation and I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs R has asked for an apology from HSBC which they have already provided to her.
Mrs R has provided me with further information in which she has outlined the distress that 
she and Mr R suffered because of the block on the account. I think that HSBC were entitled 
to block the account and didnt cause any delays so I cant award them compensation for 
this although I appreciate what a difficult situation they were in. 
I know Mr and Mrs R will find my decision disappointing but having looked at everything I 
cant say that HSBC acted unfairly when they reviewed and blocked their account and didnt 
give them information. I also think £50 is a reasonable amount for the reasons I have 
mentioned above, and I wont be asking HSBC to pay anything else.Putting things right
HSBC to pay Mr and Mrs R £50 for the distress caused by their mistake. 
My final decision
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs R £50 in compensation for their material 
distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman