DRN-3720025
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited didnt treat 
Mr C fairly when it approved five equity release mortgages. The estate said that Mr C s
the victim of a scam and that Liverpool Victoria was negligent in approving the loans.
What happened
From July 2018, broker A gave Mr C mortgage advice. It recommended that Mr C should 
take out the following equity release mortgages with Liverpool Victoria:
Application 1 July 2018, £50,000 to buy a new car (£30,000) and for 
home improvements (£20,000)
Application 2  February 2019, £30,000 to repay unsecured credit card debts.
Application 3  April 2019, £40,920 (including fees) to update his kitchen (£15,000), 
update his bathroom (£10,000) to redecorate (£5,000) and gifts for his 
grandchildren (£10,000).
In July 2019, Mr C contacted broker A (application 4). He told it that he needed to 
borrow around £60,000. When asked about the purpose of the borrowing, Mr C told Age 
Partnership that he needed to pay a tax bill so that funds hed invested could be 
released. Broker A said that it sounded like Mr C was the victim of a scam. It didnt 
recommend another mortgage.
Mr C went to another broker, broker J and was able to obtain further lifetime 
mortgages, also from Liverpool Victoria:
Application 5: July 2019, £76,120 to pay a US tax bill (£60,000 needed by end of 
July), to repay credit card debt (£10,000), for a holiday (£5,000) and fees (£1,200);
Application 6 November 2019, £86,815 for debt consolidation (£80,000), to pay the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) so that proceeds from the sale of shares could 
be released (£5,000);
Application 7: January 2020, £50,000 to make a payment to the US to release 
funds from an investment. This application was declined by Liverpool Victoria after 
it had been reviewed by its financial crime team.
The estate of Mr C said that Mr C had been the victim of fraud for a number of years. 
Hed paid the money raised from the equity release mortgages to the fraudsters. The 
estate considered that in the circumstances Liverpool Victoria didnt carry out 
appropriate checks in respect of applications 5 and 6  and that those loans should be 
written off with interest.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I upheld the complaint  but didnt make any 
award of compensation to the estate of Mr C. My provisional findings, which form part of 
this decision, were:
Looking at the information available to Liverpool Victoria in respect of applications 1,2 and 
3, I cant see any reason why it should have thought the applications werent in Mr Cs best 
interests or that there were any other reasons why the loans should not have been 
approved.
Both sides have accepted the investigators findings that Liverpool Victoria didnt treat Mr C 
fairly when it approved applications 5 and 6. For the avoidance of doubt I agree with the 
investigator. Looking at the contact from Mr C when the loans were arranged, the frequency 
and amount of the loans, and the stated reasons for loans Liverpool Victoria ought 
reasonably to have had cause for concern about what it was told. If it had investigated that 
further  and followed its own procedures  I cant see how it could fairly have approved 
applications 5 and 6.
The issue that remains for me to decide is whether I should award Mr Cs estate 
compensation.
Liverpool Victoria would not have allowed Mr C to take the loans without receiving advice. 
Broker J recommended that Mr C should go ahead with applications 5 and 6 after gathering 
information about his needs and circumstances. The equity release mortgages in relation to 
applications 5 and 6 only came about because of the advice given by broker J in respect of
them.
While I accept that Liverpool Victoria didnt act fairly and reasonably in its assessments of 
application 5 and 6, I dont consider it is responsible for any financial losses that Mr C or 
his estate suffered as a result of those loans. The relevant regulations put a lot more 
emphasis on the broker assessing whether an equity release mortgage was suitable for a 
borrower. And as I ve said, the loans could only have come about with advice  Liverpool 
Victoria could not have granted them without a brokers giving advice.
I note that Mr Cs estate brought a complaint to us about broker J. The investigator upheld 
that complaint  but the estate chose to accept a counter-offer from broker J. That was the 
estates decision. But it doesnt follow that Liverpool Victoria is then responsible for any 
remaining losses relating to applications 5 and 6. Looking at the circumstances here and 
the extent of Liverpool Victorias involvement I dont consider it would be fair for me to say 
that it should make up estate received from broker J and the total losses.
Both Mr Cs estate and Liverpool Victoria had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new submissions, I see no reason to reach different findings than I did 
in my provisional decision, as set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I up[hold this complaint. I make no award of compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman