DRN-3316742
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way The Prudential Assurance Company Limited dealt with the 
calculation and payment of his benefits when he came to take his personal pension, and 
about the poor service provided.
What happened
Mr M took out a personal pension in the late 1980s. His pension was made up of three 
different plans. His normal retirement date (NRD) was recorded as 31 July 2020, when he 
would be 65, and the policy included a 10% guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). The pension 
was originally provided by a different provider but that firm was bought out by Prudential.
Prudential told Mr M it would maintain the terms that applied to the pension when it was 
taken out. 
In June 2020 shortly before Mr M reached his retirement age, he began the process of 
accessing his pension benefits. He expected to receive his tax-free cash (TFC) lump sum 
and the first payment of his annuity, which included his 10% GAR, soon after. 
Mr M was unhappy with the way Prudential dealt with this process and complained about a 
number of issues, including that: 
Prudential didnt provide the annuity  this was paid by another firm, but he had 
never agreed to this;
payment of the TFC lump sum and the first payment of his annuity was delayed;
he wasnt paid the correct amount of TFC; 
the final bonus applied to his fund was incorrect; and 
he was treated poorly and experienced poor service throughout the process. 
Mr M first complained to Prudential on 23 June 2020. He received a final response letter in 
December. Prudential said the pension had been calculated correctly but there was a short 
delay in payment of the first annuity payment. It said Mr M hadnt suffered any loss but paid 
a small amount of interest to reflect the delay. Prudential accepted there had been some 
poor service and paid Mr M compensation of £500 for this.
When Mr M referred the complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said the payments Mr M received were correct and he hadnt suffered any 
financial loss. He agreed there had been some poor service but said the £500 paid by 
Prudential was fair.
Mr M remains unhappy and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He has provided 
detailed comments on the issues hes concerned about. I wont set them all out in full, but 
they include:
Prudential has not complied with its duties set out in the FCAs Handbook, in 
particular that information it provides must be clear, fair and not misleading;
the crux of the complaint is that Prudential only started the process in June 2020 and 
should have done this much earlier to ensure his pension benefits were paid correctly 
and on time;
he did suffer a financial loss and the payment of £500 is nowhere near enough to 
reflect the harm caused to him;
he paid fees for over 20 years for Prudential to provide his pension but he was forced 
to take an annuity from a different firm;
the payments were not calculated correctly, they were paid late, and the information 
provided about them was unclear and misleading.
He is looking for a much higher compensation payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has raised concerns about whether all of the information has been taken into account 
when investigating his complaint. I have considered everything we have received from both 
Mr M and Prudential carefully but wont set out everything in detail; I will focus on the key 
points. When reaching my conclusion Ive taken into account Prudentials duty to provide 
information that is clear, fair and not misleading, together with its general duty to treat 
customers fairly. 
Mr M has raised a number of issues and I will deal with each in turn.
The lump sum payment and first annuity payment were late
Mr M received his lump sum payment on 4 August 2020. Prudential has explained that his 
NRD of 31 July was a Friday; it started the process on the next working day, which was 
Monday 3 August and made the payment on Tuesday 4 August. Thats in line with its normal 
timescales of two working days, so there was no delay. Id expect there to be some 
processing time to pay the lump sum and I think this is reasonable.
There was a short delay in Mr M receiving his first annuity payment. Mr M received this on 
15 August 2020 when it should have been paid on 1 August. Between Prudential and the 
annuity provider, a calculation was carried out to see if Mr M suffered a financial loss as a 
result. This compared the payment made on 15 August with the correct payment date of 1 
August, with the provider backdating the payment to the earlier date. There was no financial 
loss other than the fact Mr M didnt have the use of the money during that short period. 
Prudential calculated interest on the funds at 8% for that period and paid this to Mr M. Thats 
in line with what I would direct it to do, where someone has been deprived of the use of their 
money.
The amount of TFC lump sum wasnt right
The usual limit for a TFC lump sum is 25% but Mr M had a protected entitlement on his 
policy and was entitled to take 33.43% of the total fund value. His fund value at the date 
when he decided to take his benefits was £111,746.85. So, he expected to receive 
£37,356.97 (33.43% of that value) but only received £37,224.01. He would like to be paid the 
difference of £132.96. 
I appreciate why Mr M might consider hes received the wrong amount. But Prudential 
explained why he didnt receive £37,356.97. The TFC entitlement on a pension is not a set 
percentage and will change as the value of the fund and other factors change. The 
calculation is based on a number of factors, including the lifetime allowance in the year 
someone takes their benefits, the growth in the fund and the protected TFC cash at that 
date. Because he had a protected entitlement, the calculation also took into account the fund value as at the date when the relevant changes to tax allowances came into effect as well as 
his NRD. 
So Mr M didnt receive exactly 33.43% of his fund value at NRD due to the various factors 
Prudential needed to consider when calculating how much it could pay him. From what Ive 
seen, Prudentials calculation was reasonable.
The final bonus calculation
Prudential hasnt provided the calculation showing how the final bonus was reached. Bonus 
calculations would not be carried out for an individual and would be done for anyone taking 
their pension benefits at that time. Annual and final bonus calculations are carried out by the 
funds actuaries in accordance with the FCAs requirements. Prudential has also explained 
there was a decrease in the final bonus quoted because Mr M switched two of his plans to 
cash on 23 June 2020, meaning at the date of final settlement there was no further bonus to 
be added on these plans. Mr M questioned whether he had agreed to that. Ive listened to a 
recording of the call where this was discussed and he agreed to it after asking some 
questions and being given information about making the switch.
Although Mr M has questioned the calculation I havent seen any evidence to suggest the 
final bonus paid was incorrect. 
Mr M was also concerned that the final bonus wasnt actually paid to him. He says he 
received a table showing the values of the three plans and the bonuses were listed in a 
separate column. When those bonuses were added to the values he says the total should 
have been around £132,000. 
Prudential has confirmed the correct bonus was included in the payments to Mr M. The 
bonuses were set out separately in the table sent to him but the total fund value included 
these bonuses; they were listed separately so he could see how much the bonuses were. 
And in the call recording I listened to, he asked about this and it was explained to him. So he 
knew at that point (23 June 2020) that the bonuses were already included in the total value  
they would not be added to it. The information could have been clearer but Im satisfied the 
correct position was explained to Mr M. 
The annuity is not paid by Prudential
Prudential isnt paying the annuity itself. Thats because it made a decision to stop providing 
annuities. Its not for me to tell Prudential how to arrange its business. What I can do is 
consider whether Mr M has suffered any loss as a result the way Prudential arranges things. 
What Prudential has done is arrange for the annuity to be paid by another firm on its behalf. 
Provided Mr M receives the annuity hes entitled to, then hes in the same position he would 
be in if Prudential were paying the annuity itself.
Prudential has made an arrangement which allows it to maintain the pension plans like the 
one Mr M has. Mr M is not any worse off  the annuity is simply provided by a different 
provider. I understand all Prudential customers who hold a similar pension contract to Mr M 
are treated the same  if their pension entitled them to an annuity then this would be fulfilled 
by the other firm (unless they decided to take their pension fund elsewhere). So I dont think 
Mr M has been treated unfairly or differently from other customers in the same position. 
Mr M is unhappy that Prudential received a fee from the other provider as part of its 
agreement with them. This wasnt taken from Mr Ms pension fund. So, it hasnt deprived him 
of any of his pension; its an entirely separate arrangement.Poor service
Prudential has acknowledged that it made a number of errors, such as sending the wrong 
information to Mr M. There were times when he had to wait a long time on the phone and 
there were delays with various parts of the process. And when Mr M complained, Prudential 
didnt deal with the complaint within the set timescales. 
I appreciate the situation was very frustrating for Mr M. Its right that Prudential should 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he was caused. He had to contact 
Prudential a number of times during the process and, as Ive said, often had to wait on the 
phone before speaking to someone. But he did receive the lump sum payment a few days 
after his NRD. And, although there was a delay starting the annuity payments, this was a 
short period of a couple of weeks. Ive explained why I dont think he suffered a financial loss 
as a result of that. I know he then had to wait some months to receive the final response to 
his complaint. But taking into account the impact on Mr M and the time period involved Im 
satisfied £500 is a reasonable amount to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman