DRN-2039205
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) made an error on 
their previous mortgage. They would like compensation as they have been denied access to 
their funds for a prolonged period of time.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have told us that they moved into the current property in October 2019. Prior 
to this, they lived in a previous property and had their mortgage with First Direct, who are still 
their current provider.
Mr and Mrs K said that in December 2019 they logged onto their internet banking and 
noticed a credit on their account for £27,796.64. They said they didnt know what this was 
for, so they contacted First Direct who informed them that there had been a historic error on 
their mortgage with the interest rate guarantee.
First Direct said Mr and Mrs K should have benefitted from an interest rate guarantee which 
meant that while their mortgage was on a variable rate, they would never pay more than 1% 
above the Bank of England Base Rate for the lifetime of the mortgage. First Direct said it 
was a historic error, so they applied the credit which rectified the mistake made.
The breakdown of the refund is as follows:
Total refund of overpaid interest £20,662.66
Gross interest @ 8% p.a. £8,917.41
Basic rate tax deducted on gross interest £1,783.49
Net interest payable £7,133.98
Total refund paid to Mr and Mrs K £27,796.64
Mr and Mrs K believe they should be entitled to compensation because they have been 
denied access for this money for many years. They explained various situations where they 
would have benefited from having this money earlier. They said they took out further 
borrowing for £25,000 for a loft conversion and £15,000 to replace their kitchen. 
They also said they had an accident with their car which was written off. The car was a 
seven-seater which they needed for their family. They said the insurance pay-out was 
minimal, so they had to use the money to pay a deposit and lease a new vehicle for three 
years. Mr and Mrs K said they paid over £8,000 in three years for this vehicle which had to 
be returned at the end of the lease agreement.
At the time, Mr and Mrs K said they couldnt afford to lease a seven-seater vehicle, which 
meant they had to have two cars instead of one. They said this added additional cost to 
them and if they had had the funds earlier, they could have purchased a car rather than 
leasing one out.
They also said they could have borrowed less when they took out their new mortgage in 
October 2019. Mr and Mrs K said they are parents who work full time to support their family 
and their education. They said this money was rightfully theirs and it was a life changing 
amount for them. They have also questioned whether they should be taxed on the money 
that was credited from First Direct.
First Direct issued a final response on the matter dated 21 February 2020, saying they 
applied 8% interest on top of the refund for Mr and Mrs Ks loss of use of the money over the 
years. They said they would not pay any additional compensation, as they have put 
Mr and Mrs K back in the position they would have been in, had the error not occurred.
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with what First Direct had said and brought the complaint to our 
service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think that 
First Direct needed to do anything further as they had done enough to put Mr and Mrs K 
back in the position they were in before the mistake happened.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with what the investigator had said. They made the following 
comments:
They are not seeking additional compensation as they dont believe they have 
received any compensation
They only had money refunded that the bank took in many errors over the years and 
the simple interest is what they were entitled to not compensation
They are not happy that they have been taxed, they say they were already taxed on 
this money and have now been taxed again
They could have used the money for a car instead of having to lease one. This would 
have avoided significant cost to them and their family
They are unclear as to why there were no errors prior to 2012
They are not happy that First Direct didnt identify the error sooner and had they not 
moved in October 2019, the error would not have been discovered which would 
result in more errors being made
They asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Direct have provided us with information to show when the error occurred and what 
they have done in order to put it right. They said that they reviewed two of Mr and Mrs Ks 
previous closed mortgage accounts and realised that the error had been made. First Direct 
said that Mr and Mrs K overpaid interest on both accounts.
First Direct explained that Mr and Mrs K had an offset mortgage which benefitted from an 
interest rate guarantee which meant that while the mortgage was on a variable rate, 
Mr and Mrs K wouldnt pay more than 1% above the Bank of England Base Rate. The error 
occurred from September 2011 to September 2019. This is when Mr and Mrs K would have 
benefited from paying interest at a lower rate. From the information provided by First Direct, I 
can see that a refund has been applied for each month from 20 September 2011 until 20 
September 2019  a total of £27,796.64 was refunded.
Ive reviewed the calculations that First Direct have carried out and considered whether what 
they have paid is fair and reasonable and in line with what we would expect them to do.
I think it would help to explain what our service would do in these types of situations. When a 
business has made an error, our service would expect the business to put the consumers 
back in the position they would have been in, had the error not occurred. The error happened on Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage accounts which are now closed. So, we would 
normally ask First Direct to refund any amount owed, and then add on 8% simple interest on 
each payment made. This is to reflect the fact that Mr and Mrs K have been without the 
money that they were entitled to, for several years.
Interest would normally be taxed, and tax legislation would require First Direct to apply this 
tax to any interest paid. I understand that Mr and Mrs K have queried whether tax should be 
deducted as they said they were already taxed on this. But First Direct have done nothing 
wrong here. The interest has been deducted with basic rate tax. If Mr and Mrs K think they 
may be entitled to claim the tax back from HMRC, they can ask First Direct for a tax 
deduction certificate so that they can claim the money back. We would normally expect a 
business to be able to do this, so First Direct should be able to do this for Mr and Mrs K if 
they require one. 
Based on this, I am satisfied that First Direct have done what we would expect them to do 
and I will not be asking them to pay anything further to Mr and Mrs K.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K feel that they havent been paid compensation, and the 
money they have been refunded is what was rightfully theirs, but First Direct has paid 8% 
interest on top of the refund which takes into account the time that Mr and Mrs K were 
without these funds.
Mr and Mrs K have given us various examples of how they could have used this money, had 
the error of come to light sooner. I understand the point they are trying to make but First 
Direct acted as soon as they realised the error had been made. They have refunded the 
amount and added interest on top of this.
While I accept that this money could have been used elsewhere, First Direct were not aware 
any earlier than when they wrote to Mr and Mrs K in December 2019, letting them know what 
had happened. So, it would be unfair to ask First Direct to pay any further compensation in 
this situation as they have already paid compensation in the form of 8% for the period 
Mr and Mrs K were without the money.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed with this outcome, but Im satisfied that 
First Direct have put them back in the position they would have been in had the error not 
occurred and paid them fair compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman