DRN-3377210
The complaint
Mr G complains that AXA France IARD did not fairly compensate him for mis-selling 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr G complained to AXA that it had mis-sold PPI to him. AXA upheld the complaint and 
offered to compensate him for that mis-sale. It offered to refund all of the premiums hed paid 
and all of the additional interest he incurred a result of those premiums. Altogether, AXA 
offered to refund £347.43 to Mr G. 
In the final response letter, AXA said that it had not paid 8% simple interest to Mr G. It said 
such a payment would have only been paid if Mr Gs account would have been in credit 
without the PPI. AXA didnt think those circumstances applied to Mr G.
Mr G disputed what AXA said about this. AXA then told him that his account had been 
written off in September 2005, which is why it had not paid 8% simple interest. 
Mr G didnt agree with what AXA said about 8% simple interest and so he complained to this 
service. He said the account had been fully repaid in 2007 after the lender obtained a 
County Court Judgment (CCJ). He thought his account would have been in credit for some 
considerable time. Mr G provided us with a letter dated 28 December 2007 from the lenders 
solicitors stating that the debt had been fully discharged and that Mr G should stop making 
payments. 
Our adjudicator considered the matter. I can see he contacted AXA on a number of 
occasions to ascertain why 8% simple interest had not been paid. He did not get a 
substantive response. Accordingly, he issued his view to AXA in which he said it should 
recalculate Mr Gs compensation. Our adjudicator said AXA needed to pay 8% interest from 
when the account was repaid in full in 2007. And he said AXA should pay 8% simple interest 
for any periods for which Mr Gs account would have been in credit but for the PPI policy. 
AXA responded to our adjudicators view to say that its position on the calculation of 
compensation had not changed. The matter was then passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties are already in agreement that PPI was mis-sold to Mr G. In my decision, I am not 
looking at how the PPI came to be sold. My role is to consider whether Mr G was fairly 
compensated by AXA for that mis-sale. 
Having done so, I have upheld the complaint to the same extent as set out by our 
adjudicator. 
When calculating compensation for mis-sold PPI, I would expect AXA to work out what Mr G 
paid for the PPI in premiums. As those premiums were added to the balance of Mr Gs 
account, AXA would also need to calculate how much interest he paid on those premiums. It 
then needs to work out 8% compensatory interest on those amounts to compensate Mr G for 
the time he has been out of pocket because of the PPI costs.
I consider that Mr G would have been out of pocket from when hed paid enough to clear his 
store card balance until the point he owed something again on his store card. I can see that 
Mr G has rather unusually retained a significant number of his store card statements and 
provided this documentation to AXA. AXA will need to consider the information Mr G has 
provided to ascertain when his account would have been in credit but for PPI while it was still 
active. 
AXA says Mr Gs account was written off in 2005, so it didnt have to pay 8% simple interest. 
It may well be the case that the account was written off at that time  but the debt still 
existed, and it appears that the lenders solicitors took legal action against Mr G to recover 
those funds and obtained a CCJ. 
I accept the letter from the solicitors dated 28 December 2007 applies to Mr Gs store card 
account. It bears the same account number as the store card statements. I am satisfied Mr 
G repaid the account in full. It follows that Im satisfied he paid for all of the PPI premiums. 
I appreciate Mr G told us that the CCJ was satisfied in 2006 or early 2007. I accept that what 
he told us is what he honestly remembers. But I dont have any evidence to show when it 
was repaid save for the letter from the solicitors, dated 28 December 2007. On that basis, I 
think it is fair to treat the account as fully repaid from the date of the solicitors letter of 28 
December 2007. 
It follows then that Mr G has been out of pocket because of the PPI charges from that date. 
AXA will need to take action to put things right as Ive set out below.  
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr G, AXA must undertake the following steps:  
a) Unless it has evidence that Mr Gs account was repaid in full before 28 December 
2007, AXA is to treat Mr Gs store card account as fully repaid and closed on 28 
December 2007; 
b) AXA must work out how much Mr G would have owed when the account was closed 
if the PPI policy hadnt been added to it. Accordingly, it must remove from the 
account all of the PPI premiums, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. 
It must also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI, as well 
as any interest added to those charges. AXA must have regard to the statements 
provided by Mr G when it undertakes this activity;
c) AXA must refund the difference between what Mr G owed when the account was 
closed on 28 December 2007 and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI. 
d) AXA must then add simple interest to the amount set out at paragraphs (b) and (c) 
from 28 December 2007 until the date that settlement is paid to him. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year; 
e) If when AXA works out what Mr G paid each month without PPI, he would have paid 
more than enough to clear his store card balance, AXA must pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr G paid in that regard. It must carry on paying this compensatory interest 
until the point when Mr G would have owed the lender something on the account. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
HMRC requires AXA to deduct 20% tax from the 8% interest. AXA must give Mr G a 
certificate indicating how much tax it has taken off if Mr G requests this
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right as I have set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman