DRN-3380694
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Santander UK Plc didnt refund a payment she made to a merchant.
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs R asked Santander to help her get a refund for two payments she 
made on her debit card in January 2020, one for £500 and one for £1,425. Mrs R paid this 
sum to a company that I will call D for a modelling portfolio package for her daughter. 
Mrs Rs daughter initially responded to an online advert looking for models. She was invited 
to a free test shoot where she would be assessed for her suitability for modelling work.
Mrs Rs daughter paid a £50 refundable deposit to secure her test shoot. Following the test 
shoot Mrs R says that D told her that her daughter had been successful and therefore 
would be offered the opportunity to get paid modelling work. She says D said that if she paid 
for a portfolio then her daughter would be guaranteed paid modelling work. She says a 
number of portfolio packages were discussed but D persuaded them to buy the most 
expensive one as this would guarantee the most work.
Mrs Rs daughter signed a contract. This listed the details being purchased as: digital 
images, web folio, unique hosting address and Platinum. The agreement didnt specify 
what Platinum entailed.
In summary, Mrs R says D didnt provide what it promised and therefore misled her into 
parting with her money. In particular, she says D made false guarantees that her daughter 
would be provided with paid modelling work which never materialised despite them trying to 
contact D after the sale. She said that shed later discovered through internet research that 
this was a well known scam.
Santander sent Mrs R paperwork to complete. Mrs R returned this paperwork in March 2020. 
Santander then asked Mrs R for some further information around a week later, which Mrs R 
provided in early April 2020. Santander told Mrs R the claim was being looked into and the 
disputed amount had been temporarily re-credited to her account.
Santander raised two chargebacks through the relevant card scheme, which were defended 
by D. On receipt of Ds defence Santander wrote to Mrs R for her comments in May 2020. 
Mrs R called Santander to ask why it was seeking more information from her because she 
understood her refund claim had been successful. Santander advised Mrs R she could 
ignore its latest request for further information, and this is what Mrs R did.
In June 2020, Santander re-debited Mrs Rs account because it hadnt received the further 
information it had asked for. Mrs R complained to Santander about its decision to re-debit 
her account. Santander accepted it had misadvised Mrs R when it said she didnt need to 
respond to its request for further information. It paid Mrs R £50 compensation for their error. 
However, it was now too late to pursue the chargeback further as it was outside the relevant 
time limits.
Our investigator provided Mrs R with a copy of Ds defence to the chargeback, to which she 
provided a further response that was then shared with Santander. Santander said it didnt 
think Mrs Rs latest comments would have made any difference to the chargeback 
succeeding had Santander received them on time.
I sent Mrs R and Santander my provisional decision on 3 March 2022. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Santander attempted a chargeback through the relevant card scheme. This is a way in which 
payment settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Santander to ask for a payment Mrs R made 
to be refunded. The circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied or as 
described by the company Mrs R paid, or if the goods or services were misrepresented.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. It can be defended by the merchant, which is 
what happened here as D provided a defence to the chargeback claim. Santander can make 
a further presentment to a chargeback defence and potentially also ask the card scheme 
themselves to arbitrate if the chargeback cant be settled between the card issuer and 
merchant.
It's important to highlight that Santander isnt obligated to initiate a chargeback or pursue the 
chargeback process further through second presentment or to arbitration. However, I would 
consider it good practice for Santander to do so, where a chargeback right existed and 
where there were reasonable prospects of success. Further, where there are allegations of a 
scam, it would be good practice for Santander to have brought this to the merchants bank 
and card schemes attention by way of a chargeback.
I think Santander initially acted fairly as it did attempt a chargeback for the two transactions 
Mrs R had made. It appears it was also considering a second presentment as it approached 
Mrs R for further information following Ds initial defence to the claim. Unfortunately, due to 
Santander erroneously advising Mrs R to ignore the request for further information a second 
presentment was no longer possible as there are strict time limits for completing a 
chargeback within the card scheme rules. Santanders actions therefore unfairly 
disadvantaged Mrs R as it prevented her from potentially seeking a remedy through the card 
scheme.
Santander says that Mrs R hasnt lost out because of its mistake. It says this is because 
Mrs R had no reasonable prospect of success. I disagree, and Ill explain why.
The chargeback was processed under the code not as described. Santander says the 
applicable scheme rules relating to this code says that the dispute can only be raised in 
relation to items listed on any sales documentation. Santander says the defence provided by 
D set out that it had provided everything it had promised on the sales documentation and 
that same documentation made it clear that it wasnt a modelling agency and nor could it 
provide modelling work.
Im inclined to agree with Santander that Mrs Rs claim was unlikely to have much success 
under that particular code, and broadly for the reasons Santander has highlighted. However, 
I do think its important to point out that D hasnt mentioned what platinum was under the 
contract nor what it provided as part of that to Mrs R. So it could be argued it didnt provide 
everything it had agreed to under the contract.
In any event, I dont consider not as described to have been the only applicable code under 
the card scheme that Santander could have used. It seems to me it could also have used the 
code for misrepresentation. Im persuaded that any chargeback under this (arguably more suitable code) would have had more than a reasonable prospect of success as it appears to 
be applicable for these types of disputes  where false promises of earning an income are 
made.
Santander doesnt believe there has been a misrepresentation but hasnt provided any 
justification for why. However, I think Mrs R has provided sufficient evidence to persuade me 
that it is more likely than not D misrepresented its services to her. 
I say this because Mrs R has supplied copies of emails her daughter had with the modelling 
agent she was assigned to following her successful photoshoot with D (which were also 
provided to Santander). One of these emails appears to suggest that the modelling agent will 
source contracts of work for her and she just needs to wait for them to be offered to her. The 
initial email sent by Mrs Rs daughter also demonstrates this was her understanding of what 
had been agreed at the point of sale. This is at odds with what D has tried to subsequently 
argue in its chargeback defence where it says it played no role in sourcing work nor did it 
promise this to Mrs R or her daughter.
I note that Mrs R told Santander during the initial chargeback dispute that her daughter was 
asked by D to pay an additional £120 to join a further model management platform after the 
sale in order to get work. However, Ds defence to the chargeback included copies of sales 
documentation which explicitly set out that there would be no further fees to pay in order to 
join or be introduced to modelling agencies. To me, this would appear to have been false 
information Mrs R was given prior to the sale or at least very misleading.
The sales process Mrs R has described is akin to others that have been publicised in the 
media and that this service has seen previously relating to modelling scams. That on its own 
doesnt of course mean that is what happened in Mrs Rs case. But given the other 
circumstances Ive mentioned above which would indicate it was likely misleading if not 
untrue information was given at the point of sale, Im persuaded that its more likely than not 
Mrs R and her daughter were promised guaranteed modelling work if they signed up for the 
portfolio. Given the relatively substantial sum they paid, I find it very unlikely they would have 
done so otherwise.
Ive found what Mrs R has said throughout to be credible and consistent and to be largely 
supported by contemporaneous evidence, such as the emails they sent to D after the sale. 
Given the evidence Mrs R had available and the fact she was raising concerns with 
Santander that she had been the victim of a scam, I think Santander ought to have robustly 
pursued the chargeback through the card scheme and using the most appropriate codes. 
I dont think Santander did so in a manner which was fair given it hindered Mrs Rs ability to 
provide the evidence and information it needed to progress things further through the 
chargeback process. Further, I dont think it utilised the most appropriate chargeback code to 
allow for the greatest prospect of success. Had it done so, and for the reasons Ive given 
above, I think its more likely than not that the chargeback would have eventually succeeded. 
For this reason, I dont think Santander acted fairly and it should therefore refund Mrs R the 
amount she paid and subsequently lost out on.
Santander has argued that a full refund wouldnt be appropriate in any event because Mrs R 
received everything that was listed on the sales documentation. However, Mrs R has 
explained that her daughter has since signed up to a legitimate modelling agency (which 
didnt charge a fee) and that the agency couldnt use any of the photos D had taken because 
they werent suitable as photos for a modelling portfolio. So, although Mrs R did receive 
some goods and service from D, Im satisfied that she (nor her daughter) has derived any 
meaningful benefit from them. I therefore dont consider it necessary to make any deduction 
for any goods or services they did receive.Both Mrs R and Santander accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments to make, Ive 
seen no reason to reach a different outcome to the one I reached previously. For the 
reasons given in my provisional decision, I think Santander acted unfairly in relation to 
Mrs R's chargeback request. To put things right, it should refund her the amounts she paid 
to D. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to:
Refund £1,925 to Mrs R, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date it 
redebited her account in June 2020 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman