DRN-3335771
The complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) unfairly 
terminated his hire purchase agreement, after his income was impacted by the covid-19 
pandemic.
What happened
In December 2018 VWFS supplied Mr M a new car through a hire purchase agreement. The 
total amount repayable was £20,351.44, with monthly repayments of £220.53 over 48 
months. A final balloon payment of £7,605 was required if Mr M wanted to keep the car at 
the end of the agreement.
Mr M missed a payment in January 2020 and his account was still in arrears in March 2020 
when he says his income was impacted by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and he 
missed his monthly instalments between March and August 2020. VWFS sent Mr M several 
arrears letters and tried contacting him by text. As it hadnt received any contact from Mr M it 
terminated his agreement on 28 August 2020 due to the arrears. Mr M complained to VWFS, 
he said hed tried to contact it via phone, webchat and email but didnt get any response. He 
said he hadnt received any of VWFS arrears letters or its SMS message. 
VWFS said it had correctly terminated the agreement after attempting to contact Mr M and 
not having heard from him. 
Unhappy with VWFSs response Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
said Mr M sent emails to a separate business, VWFS didnt operate an online web chat and 
Mr M hadnt provided any proof of his calls to VWFS. The investigator thought VWFS had 
been reasonable in its attempts to contact him and said its letters were addressed to the 
correct contact details held on file, in the circumstances he didnt think VWFS had been 
unreasonable in terminating the agreement. 
Mr M disagreed, he said he didnt receive any of the arrears letters because they were sent 
to his mothers address, he said he didnt get any calls or an SMS message as he lost his 
phone in June 2020 and his phone contract was subsequently cancelled. Mr M also says he 
doesnt think VWFS sent him any letters, as its offices were required to close during the 
lockdown. Mr M asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr M signed. The terms of the agreement set out that 
VWFS can terminate the agreement if Mr M fails to make his payments at the times 
specified. Mr M missed his monthly instalment in January 2020. I can see VWFS wrote to 
him about this missed payment on 17 January 2020, the letter provided a contact number Mr 
M could call if he was in financial difficulties. VWFS sent another arrears letter on 23 
February 2020.
Mr M says he couldnt pay his instalments from March 2020, because his workplace was 
closed due to the governments Covid-19 lockdown. However, I can see Mr Ms payment 
was due on 11 March 2020, which was prior to the lockdown that was announced on 23 
March 2020. A notice of sums in arrears was issued for the January and March 2020 
payments, which was followed by a default notice on 15 April 2020 which set out Mr M 
needed to pay £441.06 by 4 May 2020 to avoid his agreement being terminated and the car 
recovered.
Mr M also missed his April to August 2020 payments. A default notice was reissued on 22 
June 2020 for £882.12 arrears and a SMS message was sent to Mr Ms number the next 
day, requesting he contact VWFS. On the 28 August 2020 VWFS sent Mr M a letter to 
advise his agreement was terminated. Mr M contacted VWFS on 3 September 2020 he was 
unhappy his agreement had been terminated, he said he had been contacting it since March 
2020, but hadnt got any response.
Mr M says he had difficulties getting through to VWFS on the phone to discuss his situation. 
The Covid-19 pandemic was an unprecedented situation for everyone, including businesses. 
The Government advice was for people to work from home where possible, and VWFS, like 
other businesses wouldve needed to adapt its ways of working. And this came at a time 
when, for the same reasons, VWFS experienced a large increase in customer contacts. So, 
whilst I appreciate how frustrating it must have been for Mr M trying to get through to VWFS, 
I dont think VWFS did anything wrong because they were receiving a very high volume of 
customer contact at a time when their normal operations were disrupted due to 
circumstances outside of their control. 
VWFS did put different options in place for its customers to contact it during this difficult time 
 they could email or use an online form on its website. Mr M says he sent emails to VWFS, 
but it is evident the emails he sent in May and June 2020 were sent to a separate business. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms comments about not knowing they were separate businesses; I 
can see the other business advised him of this on 16 June 2020. I know Mr M feels the 
separate business should have directed him to the correct business or forwarded his emails, 
but Im unable to consider any of its actions against VWFS, as they are separate entities. I 
can only consider VWFS actions and as it didnt receive his emails, I cant hold it 
responsible for not responding to them.
Mr M also says he had webchats with VWFS, but VWFS has confirmed it didnt operate a 
webchat service during this time, nor did it receive any emails or online forms from him. I 
havent seen any evidence of Mr Ms webchats, but I think it is likely he was using a webchat 
with a separate business. Mr M says he didnt receive any of the arrears letters as they were 
addressed to his mothers address and he didnt get any texts because he lost his phone. 
However, it would be Mr Ms responsibility to update his address and phone number with 
VWFS, and I havent seen anything to suggest he did this.Mr M says none of the arrears letters arrived at his mothers address, so he doesnt think 
VWFS  sent him any letters during the lockdown as the government required everyone to 
stay at home. However, many businesses operated a skeleton post team during this period, 
to enable them to continue to send out post. Ive seen copies of the letters addressed to the 
address Mr M provided and as Ive not seen anything to indicate the letters werent sent, I 
think its more likely than not that they were. So, I cant fairly hold VWFS responsible for Mr 
M not receiving the letters  it is not to blame for any postal issues that may have resulted.
Whilst I do sympathise with Mr Ms position, as his income was impacted as a result of 
Covid-19 pandemic, VWFS were unaware of this. And I wouldnt expect them to act upon 
information it didnt have. VWFS tried contacting Mr M on eight occasions about his arrears, 
before terminating his agreement, in the circumstances I dont think it made a mistake when 
it reissued a default notice and terminated the agreement, due to Mr Ms arrears.
 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M; but given the above, Im satisfied 
VWFS acted reasonably in terminating the agreement and I have no grounds to ask it to 
allow Mr M to keep the car. So, I wont be asking it to do anything more in respect of this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman