DRN-3441940
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a 
package bank account.
What happened
Miss W took out an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) with Halifax in November 
2012. A monthly fee was charged for the account.
One of our Adjudicators considered Miss Ws complaint about the sale of her URCA but 
didnt think it should be upheld. As Miss W disagreed this complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
The URCA came with a range of benefits that included travel insurance, mobile phone 
insurance, vehicle breakdown cover, home emergency cover and a free overdraft facility up 
to £300. 
Miss W has explained that at the time the URCA was sold to her she was told she had to 
have the package bank account to open a new account. Miss W says she didnt need the 
account and was pressured into taking it. She wouldnt have opened the URCA if she had a 
choice. 
Mrs W says she didnt go on holiday and while she registered a mobile phone to the mobile 
phone insurance policy, she only did this because she had cover as part of the account, she 
would never have claimed under the policy due to its limitations and high excess.
Its not possible to know exactly what was said at the time the URCA was sold to Miss W but 
I have considered what she has told us alongside the information that is available from the 
time of the sale to decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
When completing our questionnaire Miss W confirmed she had a free account before taking 
out the URCA. Whether this was with Halifax or a different bank, I think Miss W would have 
been aware free accounts were available to her. I think its unlikely a Halifax representative 
would have told her she had to take a fee-paying account. To uphold Miss Ws complaint for 
this reason I would need to see strong evidence to support what Miss W has told us, and I 
havent seen this.
When Miss W took out her URCA, interview summary documents were produced. The 
documents show Miss Ws objectives were to:
borrow money for day to day spending
borrow money on an ongoing basis and repay via variable monthly payments
open an account to pay in income
A reward account (which was fee free) was considered as it met Miss Ws need for an 
overdraft and credit card. However, it appears the URCA was chosen by Miss W. The note 
on the document that justifies Miss Ws choice states:
because you want the convenience of having your insurance(s) in one place
 
Given this document was produced at the time of the sale I think it provides a more 
persuasive overview of what was discussed and decided.
I havent seen enough evidence to show Halifax provided Miss W with a tailored 
recommendation to take the URCA, so it only had to give Miss W the information she 
needed to decide if it was suitable for her.
I can see that an overdraft of £100 was added to Miss Ws account. This would have fallen 
within the £300 free overdraft limit that came with the URCA. Miss W also opened a credit 
card account. So, I think Miss W would have thought these benefits that came with the 
URCA would have been useful to her at the time.
I can see Miss W registered mobile phone devices against the mobile phone insurance 
provided under the URCA. While Miss W may have thought the insurance provided under 
this policy was limited it did provide cover for her device that she could have made use off.
Miss W also used the motor breakdown policy that came with the URCA.
I understand Miss W feels she was not able to fully utilise the URCA, but I think she decided 
to take out the URCA based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. While Miss W may 
not have regularly claimed under the insurances offered by the account, insurance is 
designed to be there for peace of mind should a need to claim arise and this peace of mind 
was provided under the benefits offered by the URCA.
Overall, I think the URCA was useful to Miss W and I dont think the account was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman