DRN-3600428
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank Plc  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) defaulted his 
account.
What happened
Mr B had a Barclaycard. In January 2020, Mr B was changing jobs and was in financial 
difficulty. In February 2020, he lost his job. Barclaycard agreed a reduced payment plan with 
two qualifying payments of £35 to be made. One was made on 9 January 2020. In March 
2020 and April 2020, Barclaycard agreed two 30-day holds on Mr Bs account  so no 
payments were needed. He managed to get another job but remained in difficulty with his 
various commitments.  No payments were received by Barclaycard after 9 January 2020. In 
May 2020, the balance was £3,399.69 and on 28 May 2020, Barclaycard sent to him a 
Notice of Default. This said payment of £428.17 must be received by 28 June 2020. No 
payment was received and Barclaycard defaulted Mr Bs account.
On 29 June 2020, Mr B called Barclaycard, but the default had been applied and in July 
2020, the account was sold to a debt collection agency (DCA). 
Mr B complained. He said the default was unfair. He had called Barclaycard many times to 
make payment but couldnt get through. He had the money to pay more than the arrears 
stated on the Notice of Default - but couldnt pay because of problems on the phone lines at 
Barclaycard.  He had been working long hours to get himself back on his feet after a period 
of unemployment. And added to that, he had a chronic illness which had been debilitating. 
Because of his circumstances, he couldnt get to a branch to pay in. He couldnt pay online 
as his Barclaycard account had been suspended and online access withdrawn.
Barclaycard said the default had been applied correctly due to missed payments. They 
accepted there had been high call volumes into Barclaycard and were sorry if Mr B couldnt 
get through, but he had managed to have several conversations with Barclaycard. Because 
the Notice of Default asked for payment by 28 June 2020, and the default letter was dated 
25 June 2020  they apologised for this error and offered compensation of £25 for that. They 
agreed to backdate the default to December 2018  when Mr B first got into financial 
difficulty.
Mr B didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard acted 
reasonably. She said Mr B didnt qualify for a payment holiday under the pandemic support 
scheme  as it was clear that his problems started in December 2019 and January 2020  
before the pandemic. Looking at the default, Mr B hadnt paid in the amount needed by 28 
June 2020  and so the default was correctly applied. She accepted that the phone lines to 
Barclaycard were very busy due to the pandemic, but that didnt lead her to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Mr B didnt agree. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has argued strongly that the default was unfair  because he had tried to get through to 
Barclaycard on many occasions but was held in a queue and had to give up. And when he 
did speak to them  on 29 June 2020, it was one day after the default had been applied. He 
said Barclaycard shouldve given him one days grace because of the circumstances. He 
showed us his bank statements and they show he had enough money at the end of June 
2020 to pay the amount needed to avoid the default. He argues that he couldnt get to visit a 
branch to pay in  because of the demands of his job. He was working long hours to get 
himself back on his feet after a period of unemployment.
Looking at what happened before 28 May 2020  when the Notice of Default was sent. 
Barclaycard agreed a payment plan in January 2020  which asked for payment of £35 per 
month. Mr B paid one amount of £35 on 9 January 2020  and then underwent a change of 
job was then unemployed, so the plan failed to go forward. Barclaycard then agreed two 30-
day holds on Mr Bs account  in March 2020 and April 2020. But as no payments had been 
made since January 2020, they sent the Notice of Default on 28 May 2020  so Mr B had 
until 28 June 2020 to pay in £428.17.  
We asked Barclaycard for their phone records  and these show that Mr B called them on 27 
April 2020 and 12 May 2020  but he wasnt then able to pay anything.  He told Barclaycard  
on the call on 27 April 2020  that he would be in a position to make payments in June when 
his new job started to pay him, and after he had cleared his rent arrears that had built up. 
Barclaycards phone records dont show any other times that Mr B called them  as they 
wouldnt show when he couldnt get through. We asked Mr B for his mobile phone records, 
but these dont show anything significant regarding his complaint- as he says he called via 
the Barclaycard app - which dont show on his phone records.
Ive thought about this  its an unfortunate fact that the pandemic led to high volumes of 
calls to all banks, including Barclaycard. I think it is likely that Mr B did call Barclaycard and 
couldnt get through. But that doesnt mean to say that I think the default wasnt fair. 
Mr B had received a Notice of Default which needed to be paid by 28 June 2020  and the 
letter spelt out what would happen if he didnt pay in  there were serious consequences. It 
said You must make a payment of £428.17 so that it reaches your account before 28 June 
2020. if you do not take the action required by this notice before the date shown then 
further action set out below may be taken against you:Your account will be closed. If this 
happens you will still be required to repay the outstanding balanceWe will send you a 
formal demand. This will ask for repayment of the whole balance If you do not pay this, we 
may take further action to recover the balance in full.Details of this default on your account 
will be registered with credit reference agencies, which could make it harder for you to get 
credit in the future.
Under those circumstances, I think its reasonable to expect Mr B to make every effort 
possible to pay in the amount needed to avoid the default. He says he couldnt visit a branch 
due to the long hours he was working  but given the seriousness of the situation  I think he 
could have found a way to do so. He had a debilitating illness though the period  he has 
described it  but Im not persuaded that it stopped him from paying into his account. I say 
this as he was still able to work and so I think its reasonable to say he couldve visited a 
branch of Barclays to pay into his account.Mr B says he couldnt use Barclaycards app as it had been suspended  Barclaycard told us 
access to it was stopped on 3 June 2020. So, its likely that Mr B couldnt use the app to pay 
into his account later in June 2020  when he had the money available. But more 
importantly, I think he could have made a payment from his bank account (which was not 
Barclays)  using its app or online payment service; or by phoning that bank. He had the 
details of his Barclaycard account on his statements  so had the details of how to pay.
We asked Barclaycard why the default letter was dated 25 June 2020  when the Notice of 
Default said payment was needed by 28 June 2020. Barclaycard agreed this was an error  
and offered Mr B compensation of £25 for that. But the default wasnt registered until 28 
June 2020  so the error on the letter didnt change what happened.
Barclaycard agreed to backdate the default to when Mr B first got into financial difficulty  in 
December 2018. I wont comment on what happened at that time as its not part of this 
complaint. But what that means is that the default will remain on Mr Bs credit file until 
December 2024  which is of course better for him than if it ran for six years from July 2020.
Mr B has argued strongly and passionately in support of his complaint. I appreciate the effort 
he has put into his submissions to us. He will therefore be disappointed that I am not 
upholding his complaint, but Im confident that having reviewed all the evidence, that this is a 
fair and reasonable decision. Im not asking Barclaycard to do anymore here. If Mr B wishes 
to accept the compensation of £25, he should get in touch with Barclaycard. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman