DRN-4432184
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way RBS Collective Investment Funds Limited has handled the 
maturity of his Junior ISA. He says delays and failing to follow his instructions has caused 
him a financial loss.  
What happened
Mr M held a Junior ISA (which was originally taken out as a Child Trust Fund). In late 2021, 
RBS wrote to Mr M asking for maturity instructions. In March 2022, he completed and 
returned the maturity instructions and requested to receive the full proceeds into his bank 
account. Following this the shares held in the investment were sold. RBS requested 
identification and verification information from Mr M to complete the payment. This wasnt 
received immediately, so RBS chased  and Mr M responded providing information at the 
start of April 2022. 
By the end of April 2022, the funds still hadnt been transferred to Mr M. At this point RBS 
wrote to him to explain it had changed the account from a junior account to an adult ISA. It 
also requested further information from Mr M in order for him to access the account. In late 
May 2022, RBS wrote to Mr M explaining that his verification documents hadnt been 
accepted and asked for further information. 
In June 2022, Mr Ms father raised a complaint on his behalf. He said they were unhappy 
that the funds hadnt been provided as requested in March 2022. RBS responded in August 
2022. It explained it was unable to accept the documents provided by Mr M due to them not 
meeting the requirements of its Anti Money-Laundering (AML) process. It said it still required 
verification information from Mr M to allow it to meet tis regulatory obligations. But it did offer 
him £50 in recognition of the delays he had encountered in receiving the proceeds of his 
investment. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service for an independent review. 
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023. This is what I said:
Ive reviewed the circumstances of the maturity of Mr Ms investment. It is clear that he 
intended to withdraw the funds and gave an instruction to do this in March 2022. Its not 
apparent to me whether the funds have now been paid, but in any case, they werent paid to 
Mr M when he initially made the request and this is what promoted his complaint. Ive 
considered whether there were failings by RBS that prevented and/or caused delays to this 
happening. 
Ive reviewed the correspondence that RBS sent to Mr M after receiving his request to have 
the proceeds paid to him. RBS accepted the instruction and sold down the shares that were 
held in the Junior ISA. But it required further verification from Mr M to fulfil its AML 
obligations in order to make a payment. I can see it requested documents to complete this 
process. Im satisfied it is reasonable for RBS to request this information. It has 
responsibilities to ensure that funds are paid correctly. But I can see things started to go 
wrong after this. 
Mr M did provide documentation to meet the requirements set out by RBS, but it rejected 
them. Having reviewed the requirements RBS gave him and the reasons it gave for rejecting 
the documents, I think it has acted fairly and reasonably here. It was clear that it required a 
certified copies and recent documents. Mr M sent a copy of a passport which wasnt certified 
and a bank statement that was more than six months old. So, I dont find RBS at fault for the 
decision to reject the documents. 
However, I can see RBS received Mr Ms documents on 7 April 2022 but didnt inform him 
they were rejected until it sent him a letter dated 31 May 2022. This is a period of nearly two 
months where Mr M was unaware why his funds hadnt been processed. During this period, 
he was also sent a letter at the end of April that said his ISA had been converted to an adult 
ISA and further identification was required for this. I think this caused confusion as Mr M had 
always wanted to remove the funds from his investment, he had the option to convert to an 
adult ISA and didnt select to do this. 
I think after RBS provided the reasons for rejecting the documents (in late May 2022), its 
liability ends for causing delays. Mr M was aware at this point that he needed to provide 
additional information. It doesnt appear he did respond to this, so the funds remain within 
the ISA. While Mr M has suggested that he continued to suffer losses by not having the 
funds withdrawn, I dont find that RBS is responsible for him not providing the additional 
documentation required for access to the funds to be given.  
I also understand Mr M is upset about the ISA being converted without his consent. But it is 
the case that Junior ISAs automatically convert to adult ISAs when a child reaches 18. By 
the time Mr M provided his documents he was already over the age of 18, so as the funds 
hadnt been withdrawn, RBS was required to convert the ISA under the rules it must follow. 
So, I havent found a failing in this respect. 
But I do think Mr M is due compensation for the impact of RBSs handling of the situation. It 
is responsible for delays and didnt keep Mr M updated on what was happening. Its letter 
about the conversion to an adult ISA caused confusion and upset as Mr M was clear in his 
instructions that he was looking to withdraw funds. The way it dealt with the request clearly 
caused upset for Mr M that could have been prevented if RBS responded quicker to explain 
his documents had been rejected. It took till August 2022 (after complaining) for Mr M to get 
a full explanation as to why the withdrawal hadnt been completed. Mr M says he has lost out 
because he hasnt had access to his funds. It isnt clear what his intention for the money 
was, so I havent identified that there is a loss of opportunity that can be quantified. I think a 
payment of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint. I note RBS paid Mr M £50 in response to his 
complaint. I dont think this is sufficient to recognise the full impact of what has happened. I 
therefore intend to require it to pay him a further £100, making the total compensation £150. 
Mr M responded and provided some further comments. In summary he said:
- When he received confirmation that the maturing funds would be paid into his bank 
account, at no time did he receive instruction regarding identification and verification 
for paying out of the original investment. The requests he received were for paying 
out the already converted ISA fund.
- He understands money laundering regulations and the need for identification. But his 
whole point is that RBS confirmed it would pay out as per the instructions given. It 
should not have converted the account to an adult ISA until the identification issue 
was resolved. 
- RBS decided to convert the investment to an adult ISA, and this has now caused 
further hassle. Had RBS requested identification for the release of funds and handled the complaint in a timely manner we would not be here today.
- His personal circumstances have made it more difficult to provide identification and 
this has added to the complexity. He sent everything he could, and RBS rejected this. 
RBS did not let him know about the problems until he began chasing.
- At present his personal circumstances make it difficult to provide the financial proof 
RBS need to access the funds.
- He did receive a cheque for the £50 offered by RBS but did not cash it as he was 
waiting for a full resolution and thought it inappropriate that he took the money until 
this happened.
RBS responded and accepted the provisional conclusion I set out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the further submission Mr M has made. Having done so I havent found reason 
to change the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I note Mr Ms concerns about not receiving notification there was a requirement to 
provide identification before receiving the maturing funds.  While I havent seen that RBS 
told Mr M when it gave him his maturity options that he would need to provide identification 
to receive the proceeds, I dont think this means there has been failing. The requirement to 
provide identification came when a payment was due to made. RBS received Mr Ms 
instruction in mid-March 2022 and responded shortly afterwards confirming the need for 
identification. I can see at this point that RBS did tell Mr M when an investor decides to sell 
their holding, anti-money laundering regulations prevent it from releasing the proceeds 
without having first obtained verification documents. Mr M accepts the general need for 
these requirements. 
Mr M has raised concerns about the investment being converted to an adult ISA  and sees 
this as a cause for the issues in receiving the matured funds. As I explained, Junior ISAs 
automatically convert to adult ISAs when a child reaches 18. As Mr M hadnt provided the 
requested identification until after his 18th birthday, his investment was converted to an adult 
ISA. I dont find that RBS has done anything wrong in this respect. Mr M was no longer 
eligible to hold a Junior ISA after his birthday, so RBS had no choice but to convert. But 
regardless of this, it still seems likely to me Mr M would also have needed to provide the 
required identification to receive his funds, which would only be available to him after his 18th 
birthday as per the Junior ISA rules. So, I dont think the conversion of the investment 
impacts my overall findings on whether RBS is at fault. 
Mr M has raised concerns about ongoing issues with regards to accessing the funds and the 
cost of meeting the requirements set out by RBS due to his personal circumstances. I 
suggest Mr M contacts RBS and explains why it is difficult for him to provide the information 
required, to establish if there is any further support it can provide to allow him to access the 
funds.  
I acknowledge the problems Mr M has encountered in his dealings and with RBS and the 
delays I mentioned in my provisional decision. And for these reasons, Ive found that 
compensation needs to be paid above the £50 that was offered. I note that Mr M says he 
received the original £50 cheque but didnt cash it. I recommend RBS cancels this cheque 
and Mr M destroys it, so that one single compensation payment can be made. In summary, I acknowledge Mr Ms frustration with how RBS dealt with the maturity of his 
investment. For the reasons set out above and those in my provisional decision, I direct RBS 
to pay him compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require RBS Collective Investment Funds Limited to pay the 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023. 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman