DRN-3893002
The complaint
Mr A complains that Alwyn Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim under his 
landlord legal protection insurance policy.
Where I refer to Alwyn, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr A tells us that he was taken to court without any warning, for rent arrears and repairs, by 
an agency that was managing a property for him. He made a claim under his landlord legal 
protection insurance policy, but Alwyn declined the claim as the policy doesnt cover this 
type of dispute. Mr A disagrees, so he raised a complaint which he brought to our service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied there was no section of cover 
under the policy which would be relevant to this claim, so he didnt think Alwyn had declined 
it incorrectly or unfairly. As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr As landlord legal protection insurance policy say that it will 
cover the following insured incidents:
1. Repossession
2. Rent recovery
3. Damage to your property
4. Nuisance and trespass
5. Defence of criminal prosecutions 
6. Tax enquiries
Ive reviewed the sections of cover for each insured incident. And whilst I dont intend to 
quote the descriptions in full, its clear this claim isnt for repossession, property damage, 
nuisance or trespass, or tax enquiries. It was a defence of a claim, but it didnt relate to a 
criminal prosecution. So it wouldnt fall within these sections. 
The only section of cover which could potentially be relevant here is rent recovery, but that 
cover is defined as:
Advisers costs and expenses to pursue your tenant to recover rent they owe to you 
under the terms of the tenancy agreement.
As Mr A wasnt pursuing the claim against his tenant, Im not satisfied the claim falls within 
this section of cover either. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer will 
decide what risks its willing to insure and it will charge a premium based on the level of 
cover its providing. As long as the cover is set out clearly in the terms and conditions of the 
policy documents, our service wouldnt involve ourselves in these commercial decisions.
From the information available, Im satisfied that the policy cover is set out in a way which is 
clear, fair, and not misleading. And as Mr As claim doesnt fall within that scope, Im 
satisfied it was correct and fair for Alwyn to decline cover.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman