DRN-4073695
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund over £53,000 they lost 
as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs W authorised the disputed payments they made from 
their Lloyds account. They made both international payments to a foreign account, as 
well as payments to Payward Ltd, which was a cryptocurrency account with Kraken that 
Mr and Mrs W had opened with the assistance of the scammer (where their funds were 
subsequently then transferred on to the scammer). The payments were requested using 
their legitimate security credentials provided by Lloyds, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent Mr and 
Mrs W from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr and Mrs W transferred over £53,000, which is a significant 
amount of money. But this amount wasnt paid in a single out of character transaction. It 
was spread over four payments made over the course of six months which, in my 
judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when 
compared with Mr and Mrs Ws spending history. I can see from their account 
statements that they had made two payments of almost £14,000 each in February 2020, 
for example. I acknowledge that one of the international payments they made to the 
scammer was larger than this at £20,000. But I dont consider it to have been 
significantly larger, such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or 
indicating that they might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. Similarly, by the 
time they came to make the £25,000 payment around a month later, I also dont consider 
this wouldve appeared overly unusual in light of the payment values that had preceded 
it. 
I also dont consider there to have been any other indicators of financial harm with 
regards to these payments. They were not being made to the same payee in quick 
succession for example. I also appreciate there was an FCA warning published about 
the scammer in April 2020. But it would not have been possible for Lloyds to determine 
where any of the payments were going. They were not paid directly to the scammer, so it 
wouldnt have known that they were going to a broker with an active FCA warning. 
Therefore, having considered the payments Mr and Mrs W made as part of the scam, Im 
not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Lloyds fraud 
monitoring systems, or that would have indicated they were in the process of being 
scammed.
Ive also considered whether Lloyds did enough to try and recover the funds after the 
fraud was reported. In terms of the international payments, I can see that Lloyds reached 
out to the beneficiary accounts but was told that they could not be returned. And with 
regards to the payments made to Mr and Mrs Ws Kraken account, I dont consider there 
would have been any reasonable prospect of recovering these funds either given it was 
only used as a conduit for transferring cryptocurrency to the fraudsters. So, I dont think 
there was anything more Lloyds could have done in these circumstances.
Lloyds are also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr and Mrs W under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either. First, the Code only applies to 
transfers made between GBP-denominated UK-domiciled accounts. In this instance, 
some payments were made to an international account, so the CRM Code would not 
apply to these transactions. In terms of the payments made to Payward (which was a 
Kraken account opened by Mr and Mrs W as part of the scam, which theyve confirmed 
they had access to), the CRM Code would not apply to these either, as it only covers 
payments made to another person. Deposits into a Kraken account can only be made 
from a bank account in the same name as the one verified on the crypto account, so we 
know it could have only gone to Mr and Mrs Ws Kraken account. So, in this instance, the 
money cannot be said to have gone to another person given it would have been sent to 
an account in their own name. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, and Im sorry to hear 
they have been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded Lloyds can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for their loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman