DRN-2727663
The complaint
Mr P complains about a personal loan provided to him by Avant Credit of UK, LLC, trading 
as Avant Credit, (AC), which he says was unaffordable. He is also unhappy about the 
amount of interest charged by AC.
What happened
AC provided Mr P with a loan of £5,000 on 12 August 2015. The interest rate was 37.95%,    
(45.33 % APR). The loan was to be repaid over 60 months with 59 monthly repayments of 
£183.73 and a final repayment of £184. If Mr P made each payment when it was due, hed 
pay £11,024.07 in total. The loan was repaid in July 2020. 
Mr P said he had a history of borrowing including using overdrafts on several bank accounts. 
He looked to borrow money to make ends meet and pay off other debts. At the time of his 
loan application, he was self-employed with no guaranteed income. Mr P queried why this 
wasn't taken into account when AC decided to approve the loan. Mr P also said that the final 
payable amount on the loan was over twice the agreed loan amount. The loan amount and 
loan period were both substantial and unsustainable for a vulnerable person such as himself, 
especially when his other debts were considered. Mr P said that the interest rate on the loan 
was one of the highest AC offered and queried why AC had offered such a high interest rate 
and large loan knowing he was vulnerable. Mr P said that he didnt feel he should have been 
approved for a loan and that ACs checks should have flagged him as a person with multiple 
sources of debt who relied heavily on borrowing. When he applied for ACs loan, he had 
other loans, a negative bank balance and a below average credit score. Hed struggled to 
repay loans from various companies for years resulting in borrowing money from family and 
friends. He had hidden his debts and it had taken its toll on his mental health with stress and 
worry.
In its final response letter, AC said that it had asked Mr P for his monthly net income and 
expenditure. Mr P said that his monthly income was £2,300.00. AC asked Mr P for a bank 
statement to verify the income amount. Mr P provided his bank statements for the period       
1 April 2015 to 12 August 2015. AC said it had verified a monthly net income of £2,510.59. 
AC also examined Mr Ps credit files to identify any pre-existing debt obligations. It then 
cross-referenced these amounts to his monthly net income and expenses to gauge the 
affordability of an additional obligation. AC also examined Mr Ps past repayment history, 
which indicated that he had not been in arrears on any account in the previous 12 months. 
It didnt consider that it had failed to properly assess the affordability of an additional credit 
obligation for Mr P prior to making a credit decision for his loan application. Following 
queries from Mr P, AC also said that Mr P had said in his application that the purpose of the 
loan was debt consolidation. It considered Mr Ps expenses would have been reduced after 
funding. 
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said that 
AC shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Ps financial situation. Hed 
looked at the information Mr P had sent to us and considered whether AC wouldve done 
anything differently had it seen this information before lending to Mr P. The adjudicator noted 
that there was some adverse information on Mr Ps bank statements, including two short-
term loans and an overdraft facility in place. But he said that he hadnt seen anything which 
suggested AC wouldve concluded that Mr P wouldnt have been able to have sustainably 
repaid this loan. And given that the purpose of the loan was for consolidation, he didnt think 
it was unfair for AC to have provided the loan to Mr P.
Mr P responded to say, in summary, that he recalled sending AC his bank statements but 
was surprised that it approved the loan as the statements showed his account was 
overdrawn at the beginning and end of the statement period. When money came in, he used 
it to pay his debts. The statements also showed large payments to and from a short term 
loan provider, a credit card provider, and payments to his other accounts to pay their 
overdrafts. But the statements didnt show the other high cost loans he had linked to his 
other current accounts. He didnt recall choosing debt consolidation as the reason for the 
loan, but he couldnt say for sure.
The adjudicator responded to say that the application form showed the loan purpose as debt 
consolidation. He said that hed be happy to review other material which showed Mr Ps 
other loans. With regard to the interest payable on the loan, he said that the nature of these 
loans was that the interest rate was high, and he couldnt take this issue further.
Mr P responded by sending this Service information about his various loans. He still disputed 
that he chose debt consolidation as the loan purpose at the time of his application. He said 
that if that were true, the amount AC offered didn't cover his existing debts. Mr P also said 
that AC changed its loan offer terms after reviewing his bank statements and provided a 
lower amount and charged higher interest. Mr P said that this suggested that AC saw and 
ignored warning signs. 
A different adjudicator reviewed the new information Mr P had sent this Service. But he said 
that having looked over the additional documents Mr P had sent us along with the
information originally provided by AC, he hadnt seen anything to suggest that the first 
adjudicators assessment was unfair or incorrect.
Mr P disagreed. 
AC responded by sending this Service a screenshot of a test application which showed that 
Mr P would have selected the purpose of the loan from a drop-down list, meaning this would 
have been stated on the application due to Mr P actively choosing this option on the 
application form. AC also noted that Mr P had queried that the loan amount didnt match his 
outstanding debt. AC said that its records indicated that Mr Ps loan was £5,000 and his total 
existing debt reflected on its credit check was £5,406. So, this loan would have consolidated 
most of Mr Ps existing debt leaving only £406 remaining. Its checks also showed that Mr Ps 
monthly payment towards his creditors at the time of lending was £763. This would have 
been reduced to £183.73 after its loan.
 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to AC on 15 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
I firstly said that I was sorry to hear that Mr Ps health had been affected by his financial 
situation.I explained that I would deal with each aspect of Mr Ps complaint separately.
Irresponsible lending
When AC lent to Mr P the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged AC to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that AC 
needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed. So, AC had to think about whether Mr P could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for AC to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr P. 
In general, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower would be required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ps case, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did AC complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ps 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did AC make a fair lending decision?
Did AC carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when it provided the loan?
As set out above, AC gathered some information from Mr P about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. It obtained his bank statements. It also carried out a credit check.Id noted ACs credit checks before Loan 1. These showed a total credit balance of £5,406 
and monthly payments of £763. They showed that Mr P had three current accounts, one 
card account and one loan account. Hed taken out three short term loans in three months 
and one of these was active with a balance of £738. But the total value of short term loan 
accounts opened in the three months prior to Loan 1 was £2,035 and hed already settled 31 
short term loan accounts. The checks also showed a red symbol for Mr Ps card utilisation. 
Overall, I thought that ACs credit checks showed a recent reliance by Mr P on short term 
loans to supplement his income which I thought should have given it additional concerns. 
Id looked at ACs application details. These showed that Mr P had been self-employed for 
seven months. The fact that Mr P was self-employed meant that Mr Ps income might have 
been sporadic or likely to fluctuate. His declared income might not have been his available 
income and might not have been net of all tax, national insurance and business expenses. 
There was also an element of uncertainty  especially as Mr P would be unlikely to receive 
any sick pay or holiday pay. So, I thought that AC should have taken steps to verify Mr Ps 
available income as carefully as possible as any error  even if slight - was likely to have a 
significant impact on his ability to repay this loan.
I also noted that CONC 5.2.2 (3) said that a lender must consider sufficient information to 
enable it to make a reasonable creditworthiness assessment. Under this section, it also 
noted paragraph 4.21 of the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guidance, (ILG). 
This said that a failure to consider sufficient information to be able to reasonably assess 
affordability was an unsatisfactory business practice. In particular, the note under paragraph 
4.21 of the ILG said that this could include failing to verify details of current income and 
expenditure by checking an accountants letters when a borrower is self-employed. I couldnt 
see that AC had sought information about Mr Ps accounts, whether from an accountant or 
otherwise.
There were two figures for Mr Ps net monthly income in ACs application details - £1,275 
and £2,300. AC appears to have used the higher figure of £2,300 in its affordability report. It 
also showed a gross annual salary of £36,048. Id noted that Mr P provided AC with his bank 
statements so that it could verify his income. I could see on Mr Ps bank statements that he 
received two amounts totalling around £2,300 in the month before his loan application. So, it 
seemed likely that AC had used this amount as his income. But AC knew Mr P was self-
employed and so I thought it ought to have checked whether the income figure it used was 
the actual amount available to pay his living costs and its loan repayments. I couldnt see 
that it did this. I was concerned that AC seemed to have accepted at face value that Mr P 
had an income of some £2,300 a month But, I thought it was likely that Mr Ps available net 
income was substantially less than this after payment of tax, national insurance and any 
business expenses.
Id noted that AC saw bank statements for one of Mr Ps three current accounts. AC was 
aware that he had three current accounts from its credit checks. Mr P had explained to us 
that he used one account for business and two for personal use. I could see that AC saw   
Mr Ps business bank account statements. But it would have seen he was transferring 
amounts to another account on these. So, I could see that it didnt obtain a complete picture 
about Mr Ps finances.
I also noted that AC reduced the amount of the loan and increased the interest rate after 
seeing Mr Ps bank statements. So, I thought this suggested that it had concerns about his 
financial situation. 
Regarding Mr Ps expenses, I could see that AC had asked him for his rent amount which he 
said was £600. It had also asked about his council tax, utilities, car and other expenses. His rent and other expense items totalled £965. But I couldnt see that AC had verified these as 
it didnt appear to have asked for the bank statements for his personal accounts. I also 
couldnt see that AC had verified Mr Ps business expenses from the statements that it saw. 
As he was self-employed, it was likely that his income might have been significantly reduced 
by these. 
Id also seen on ACs affordability checks that it was aware that his credit commitments were 
£763. But it also said that Mr P was borrowing £5,000 for debt consolidation. ACs checks 
showed that his total credit balance was around £5,400. So, I could see it was likely to have 
thought that Mr Ps credit commitments would reduce if the loan was used for debt 
consolidation, although credit of around £400 remained to be paid. Mr P disputed that hed 
selected debt consolidation as a purpose as the loan didnt cover all his credit. And I could 
see that the loan was actually used on the day he received it to pay his tax liability of £4,800 
rather than to consolidate his debts. 
Altogether, I didnt think ACs checks went far enough given Mr Ps circumstances. In 
particular, the lender didnt appear to know if his income deposits were all available to him to 
meet his expenses. It was also clear from ACs credit checks that Mr Ps finances were 
already pressured. And given the amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the length 
of the loan term, I thought AC should reasonably have taken steps to further investigate 
some of the information that Mr P had provided in order to satisfy itself that Mr P could 
sustainably repay the loan over a 60 month period.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did AC make a 
fair lending decision when it provided Mr P with a loan? 
Even though I thought that AC shouldve carried out better checks at the time, it didnt  
automatically follow that AC was wrong to provide Mr P with a loan.
Mr P had provided us with some of his bank statements and his credit report. The bank 
statements were from the account used for Mr Ps business. The adjudicator had asked Mr P 
to provide the statements for his other two accounts, but he wasnt able to provide these to 
us.
Generally, I thought looking at a consumers bank statements and credit report gave me the 
best picture of what the lender should likely have seen. 
I could see that Mr Ps business account statements were usually overdrawn, and often 
around his overdraft limit and that Mr P was paying overdraft fees. I could see from his credit 
report that his other two current accounts were also overdrawn.
Mr P told us that his gross income wasnt fixed and varied greatly. I could see from the 
statements for the three months before his loan application that his income varied from 
around £3,020 to £1,900, with a monthly average of around £2,290. After tax and insurance 
deductions, this equated to an average monthly net income of around £1,860, which was 
less than AC had considered. 
I could also see on the statements for those three months that Mr Ps monthly business 
expenses averaged around £800. By adding his declared living costs of £965 to this amount, 
I could see that there wouldnt be enough money left to pay the repayments on Loan 1, let 
alone his other credit commitments. It was clear to me that Mr Ps finances were under 
pressure and there were indications that he was having difficulties managing his money. In 
May 2015, hed borrowed a short term loan of £550 to supplement his income, repaid it 
around a month later and then took out another short term loan for £600 three weeks later. 
This was repayable until September 2015.So, had AC considered fully the information it had received and enquired further into Mr Ps 
financial situation, I thought it was likely to have learned that the loan wasnt likely to have 
been affordable for him and so I considered it was irresponsible to have agreed it. Even if  
Mr P had used the loan for debt consolidation, I didnt think he would have had sufficient 
disposable income to repay the loan sustainably. So, I thought AC treated Mr P unfairly here 
and I intended to say that this aspect of Mr Ps complaint should be upheld, and that AC 
should put things right as shown below. 
High interest rate
Id noted that Mr P was unhappy about the amount of interest payable under the loan. He 
was also unhappy that AC had charged him a higher rate of interest after it had reviewed his 
information.
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of 
it was here), I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
considered was most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr P told this Service that he had to sign online documents. Id noted that Mr Ps name was 
typed on the loan agreement. This was done on 12 August 2015 at 18.51. I didnt have any 
evidence that Mr P didnt sign the agreement by typing in his name. Just above where Mr P 
had to type in his name, the agreement showed that it should be signed only if the signatory 
wanted to be bound by its terms. On the front page of the agreement, I could see that the 
key terms were clearly set out including the APR and the interest rate and the total amount 
payable as well as the monthly repayment amounts. 
Id also noted that Mr P was unhappy that AC had charged him a higher rate of interest after 
reviewing his information. I was aware that lenders charged a higher interest rate to reflect 
the potential risk of the loan repayments not being made. Whilst this showed that AC might 
have had some concerns about Mr Ps creditworthiness, I could see that Mr P agreed to the 
higher rate by signing the loan agreement.
On balance, I wasnt persuaded that AC had acted unfairly in charging the interest rate 
shown on the loan agreement. So, I didnt propose to uphold this aspect of Mr Ps complaint. 
So, subject to any further representations by Mr P or AC, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order AC to put things right as 
follows. 
Putting things right  - what AC needs to do
AC should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr P on the loan;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires AC to take off tax from this interest. AC must give Mr P a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr P responded to my provisional decision to say he was happy with the outcome and had 
nothing else to add.AC hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr P and AC have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold the 
complaint in part and require AC to pay Mr P some compensation and take the steps as set 
out above.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Avant Credit of UK, LLC, trading as Avant Credit, to put things right as Ive 
set out above under the heading Putting things right  what AC needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman