DRN-3753774
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) irresponsibly increased the limit on her
credit card on three occasions, and that it unreasonably declined her application for a new
credit card.
What happened
Mrs O applied for a credit card from BoS in October 2015. She was provided with a card with
a credit limit of £4,000. Since then the limit increased three times as follows:
21/4/2017 increase to £4,500
4/8/2018 increase to £5,500
17/7/2019 increase to £6,000
Mrs O cancelled the card in February 2021, having paid it off. However she then applied for
a new card in September 2021, when her application was declined. She complained about
this as she said her credit status was far worse when BoS increased the limit on her card.
She applied again but was advised that a new application couldnt be made within 6 months
of the previous one. She complained to BoS, and later complained about the way her
complaint was dealt with.
BoS said her application was declined because she didnt meet its lending criteria at the
time. It denied that it had increased the credit limit irresponsibly.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, BoS advised that it no longer had any details of the
checks it had carried out at the time of the credit limit increases. Our investigator said that
BoS hadnt made a fair lending decision in respect of the credit limit increases, and that it
should refund all interest and charges from the date of the first increase. She explained that
it should have considered Mrs Os bank statement which would have shown that she was
struggling financially.
BoS replied that it had now in fact obtained the details of the information it considered at the
time of granting the increases. It said that according to its checks, for which it used ONS 
(Office for National Statistics) data, the increase in limit was affordable for each increase.
Our investigator responded that BoS shouldnt have relied just on statistical information and
should have considered the bank statements.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought BoS had made fair lending decisions 
in respect of the 2017 and 2018 increase, but not in respect of the 2019 increase.
BoS accepted my provisional findings. It pointed out that the balance on the account never 
exceeded £5,500 so technically Mrs O would receive no payment.
Mrs O didnt accept the decision, and couldnt understand why my decision was so different 
from the adjudicators view.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below in italics:
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the 
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint are:
Did BoS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs O 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs O would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where BoS ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Os indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided 
further credit?
declining of September 2021 application
Mrs O says that at the time of applying for the new credit card her credit status was 
much better than it had been at the time of the credit limit increase in 2019. BoS said she 
wasnt eligible for a new card according to its lending criteria at the time. It pointed out 
that its criteria changed regularly and the same criteria may not apply in 2021 as it did in 
earlier years.
Banks are free to lend to customers and apply what criteria they wish. For a new card its 
criteria may be different than for increasing the limit on a card, as effectively it would be 
lending more from the start. So as long as the bank doesnt discriminate unfairly (and Ive 
seen no evidence that it did), I cant make any finding about the declining of an 
application.
Mrs O says this must show that BoS had previously lent to her irresponsibly, so Ive gone 
on to consider this.
2017 increase
This was an increase applied by BoS (i.e. not on Mrs Os application). According to BoSs
records, it assessed her living expenses according to ONS data, and said that after taking
her credit commitments into account she would have had about £800 disposable income. I
understand the point that rent of £250 seems a bit low, but BoS says it took it from an
internal model which estimates average rents and house prices for the area. Whilst the rent
figure appears higher in Mrs Os bank statements, I dont think there was anything in the
information BoS had that would have alerted it to look at bank statements. Her bank account
wasnt overdrawn at any time and her card account was kept well below the limit. Her credit
commitments were about 25% of her income and she appeared to have sufficient disposable
income.
Finally, Ive not seen that Mrs O has complained tha affordable to her. I
think that BoS acted fairly in applying this increase.2018 increase
BoS said that Mrs O applied for this increase, requesting a £7,000 limit. It granted the 
increase, though only by £1,000 up to £5,500. It said that Mrs O had declared the rent she 
was paying at £309 a month. her credit commitments had gone down  to about 20% of her 
income, and it said she had a monthly disposable income of £850.
Even if the disposable income figure was too high, I still dont see that BoS needed to carry 
out further investigations of Mrs Os financial circumstances, given the information shown 
by its checks. Again her bank account wasnt overdrawn and she kept her card account 
well.
Again Mrs O didnt complain that this was unaffordable to her. I think BoS acted fairly in 
applying this increase.
2019 increase
I think Mrs Os position had changed by this time. She didnt ask for the increase. but her 
income had now remained just about the same for two years. But her card balance, from 
being £0 at the time of the last increase had gone up to £2,904. Her overall monthly credit 
commitments had gone up to £644, now about 35% of her income. I havent seen any 
breakdown of the commitments between revolving credit (credit cards, store cards) and any 
other credit (e.g. loans) but I think BoSs practice of applying 3.5% of the balance on 
credit/store cards as an estimate of monthly commitments is too conservative. I think a 
figure of 5% is more reasonable if the card is to be paid off within a reasonable length of 
time. Effectively BoS should have taken into account in its calculations that Mrs O could 
potentially be paying up to further £3,000 of credit.
The monthly disposable income estimated by BoS had more than halved by this date. So 
whilst her account was still kept below the limit, I think that with such a high credit 
repayment to income ratio, BoS should not have issued this further increase. As it was its 
decision to offer the increase I dont imagine it would have decided to carry out any further 
financial assessment like considering bank statements.
I dont think BoS made a fair lending decision in this respect. It should deal with the account 
as Ive set out below
complaint handling
Mrs O has said that BoS acted unfairly by taking 5 weeks to log her complaint upon receipt 
of it. She was also frustrated at having to spend nearly an hour on the phone when she 
attempted to contact the applications team. I see that BoS agreed that this serviced fell 
short of its normal standards and, by way of resolution paid Mrs O £40 for the upset and 
inconvenience caused. I think that bearing in mind our awards in similar cases, this was 
reasonable.
I note what Mrs O has said, though I should point out that my decision was based on a 
complete review of all the evidence. At the time of the adjudicators view BoS hadnt 
provided any information about its reviews at the time of each increase, and I can 
understand Mrs Os frustration in that respect. I think Ive set out clearly set out my 
reasoning in my provisional findings.
As neither party has provided any further evidence in response to my provisional findings 
those findings are now final and from part of this final decision. In respect of any refund BoS should set out clearly to Mrs O if the balance on the account never exceeded £5,500. 
But if thats correct then Im afraid Mrs O wont get any financial benefit as a result of this 
decision.
Putting things right
As I dont think BoS should have increased Mrs Os credit limit to £6,000, I dont think its fair 
for it to impose charges on any balances which exceeded the previous limit of £5,500. 
Therefore, BoS should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £5,500.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs O along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. 
Remove all adverse information, if any, recorded after 17 July 2019 regarding this 
account from Mrs Os credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to deduct tax from any award of interest. give
Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Bank of Scotland plc to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman