DRN-4284859
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined his claim for bike theft.
What happened
Mr R had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by Admiral. His policy included 
cover for three bikes, all of which were specified items on the policy schedule. 
On a day out, Mr R and his family locked the bikes to a secure bike stand outside a public 
venue while they used the facilities and got refreshments. When they came out 
approximately 25 minutes later, the bikes had gone. Mr R asked the venue to check the 
CCTV footage of the bike stand area. Then, as Mr R and his family travelled home by taxi, 
he reported the theft to the police and obtained a crime reference number (CRN).
The venue management called him later to say the CCTV didnt cover the bike stand, and 
there was nothing of note in other areas covered by the CCTV.
Mr R claimed under his policy. Admiral asked for various pieces of information to support the 
claim, which he provided. 
Initially, Admiral declined the claim because the locks Mr R said hed used werent of the 
gold standard specified in the policy. After he provided evidence that the locks were of the 
appropriate standard, Admiral asked for proof of purchase. Mr R said a member of his family 
had bought the locks more than two years earlier, and couldnt find a receipt or identify the 
specific purchase on bank statements. The shop which supplied them had stopped trading.   
Admiral declined the claim because Mr R was unable to provide proof of ownership of the 
locks or evidence of the exact type of locks used. Its investigation report stated that the locks 
were not of the gold standard specified in the policy. 
Mr R complained. He said the locks were the gold standard rating and he thought it was 
unfair to expect him to have proof of purchase. Admiral issued its final response giving the 
same reasons for declining the claim, so Mr R brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said Admiral had declined the claim 
fairly because Mr R hadnt demonstrated that hed met the policy conditions.
Mr R didnt agree. He provided a slightly blurred photo of one lock to show hed owned it, 
and he repeated his position that it was unfair to expect him to have proof of purchase.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The three bikes are specified in the policy, and the schedule includes the following 
endorsement:
Under Section 4 (Pedal Cycles) there is no cover for theft unless your pedal cycle is a) in 
a locked building with no public access, or b) securely locked to an immovable object 
using a Sold Secure Gold rated bicycle or motorcycle lock when left outside or kept in a 
communal area.
Mr R used a branded, chain and combination lock. Admiral said the brands combination lock 
didnt meet the gold standard, therefore the policy conditions hadnt been met. Mr R provided 
evidence that the lock did meet the standard required. Having considered the evidence, 
alongside review of the manufacturers information, Im satisfied that the locks Mr R said 
hed used met the policy condition.
Admiral said the locks werent the same as those which Mr R first reported using. However, 
on looking carefully at the information, I havent seen any evidence that Mr R reported using 
any other type of lock.
Admiral asked Mr R for proof of purchase of the locks. It quoted the policy as follows:
We may ask you for more information to support your claim, such as: original receipts, 
invoices or valuations dated before the item was insured, and instruction booklets, 
photographs or details of where and when an item was purchased. 
Mr Rs reasons for not providing proof of purchase are:
His family bought the locks more than two years before the theft.
They cant find the receipt or evidence of the transaction.
Its unreasonable, anyway, to expect someone to keep a receipt for so long when its 
a small item.
With that said, Mr R did provide a photo of one lock. Although slightly blurred because it isnt 
the focus of the photo, it does seem to be the brand and type of lock Mr R said he used. Its 
shown on the floor next to a rucksack while someone is sitting on a bike which seems to be 
the same as one of those reported stolen. The image is dated and matches Mr Rs claim that 
he had the locks for more than two years.
Im minded to accept this is reasonable evidence that Mr R owned at least one lock of the 
type he said he used.
Ive thought about what Admiral mightve done if Mr R had provided it with proof of purchase. 
The policy doesnt say how, or if, Mr R was supposed to demonstrate hed met the policy 
conditions. So, if Mr R had provided the receipts, I dont think it would really make a 
difference. Thats because owning the locks wouldnt prove that he used them on the day of 
the theft. So, I dont think it was fair that Admiral declined the claim because Mr R couldnt 
provide proof of purchase.
Finally, Ive considered Admirals reliance on the policy which entitles it to ask for, original 
receipts, invoices or valuations dated before the item was insured. Mr R provided Admiral 
with all the evidence it asked for in respect of the actual bikes, which were the insured items. 
The locks were not insured items under the policy, so if Admiral expected Mr R to be able to 
prove purchase, it shouldve made that clear to him when he bought the policy. 
Overall, I dont think Admiral has handled Mr Rs claim fairly. To put matters right, Im 
minded to require Admiral to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy.Admiral offered Mr R £25 compensation because he had to wait for its response to his claim. 
I dont think theres been a significant delay in handling the claim, but I can see that Mr R felt 
it necessary to chase updates. I do think Admiral caused some avoidable delay, though, in 
light of its requests for what Ive mentioned here  the receipts for the locks. As it would be 
unlikely to make a significant difference to Admirals assessment of the claim, I accept Mr 
Rs comments that the loss of the bikes caused him and his family some upset. For these 
reasons, I think its reasonable for Admiral to increase its compensation payment from £25 to 
£100.
I said I was minded to require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to reconsider Mr Rs 
claim and pay £100 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Admiral accepted my provisional decision.
After seeking clarification, Mr R also accepted my provisional decision, but Ill address his 
concerns below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
In response to Mr Rs questions about what my provisional decision would mean to him, I 
looked again at the evidence. 
Admiral declined Mr Rs claim because he couldnt provide evidence that he owned the locks 
he said he used to secure his bikes. The action I recommended would mean that Admiral 
should go back and consider his claim again, without expecting to receive any further 
evidence about the locks. Thats because even if Mr R proved he owned the locks, it 
wouldnt prove he used them. So, the evidence Admiral was seeking would be of little to no 
use in its assessment of the claim.
If, on reconsideration, Admiral declines the claim for a different reason, and Mr R disagrees, 
he would need to raise his concerns with Admiral in the first place. However, Admiral may 
decide to accept the claim and offer Mr R a settlement.
As both Mr R and Admiral accepted my provisional decision, it becomes my final decision 
and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Rs 
complaint and Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Ltd must:
reconsider Mr Rs claim against the remaining terms of the policy, without seeking 
further evidence of the locks used to secure the bikes, and
pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused by seeking 
unrealistic information.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman