DRN-2010447
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont refund him for transactions he 
didnt make or authorise. 
What happened
On 11 April 2019, Mr R opened a current account on line with Nationwide. The bank told 
Mr R that hed receive a bank card and PIN for his new account within 7  10 working days. 
On 15 April 2019, Mr R deposited £3,600 into his new account.  
Mr R says that following the deposit, eleven cash withdrawals totalling just under £3,000 
were made from his current account without his consent between 18 and 22 April 2019. 
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are of aware of which 
transactions are in dispute.
Mr R says he never received his bank card and PIN from Nationwide Hes explained that his 
address has a fire safety letterbox which makes it difficult for post to be properly inserted. 
Hes said that letters are often left sticking out, which makes it easy for someone to pick 
them out and take them. Mr R says his new bank card and PIN was either picked out of the 
letterbox or intercepted in the mail by someone who then used them and carried out the 
disputed transactions. Mr R has explained he lives with his family and doesnt believe 
anyone in his household wouldve taken his card and PIN.
Mr R says he doesnt recall any letters going missing. And hes provided evidence to show 
that at the time of one of the withdrawals, on 20 April 2019, he was playing cricket. So, it 
couldnt have been him. Hes said that he opened the account to help him save. And only 
became aware of the disputed transactions when he called the bank on 23 April 2019 to let it 
know he hadnt received his card and PIN. 
Nationwide investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It concluded 
that Mr R had made or allowed someone else to make them. They said:
Mr Rs genuine card and PIN were used to make each transaction
Mr Rs new bank card and PIN were sent in plain envelope to Mr Rs address, days 
apart, so it was unlikely that both items of post would have been intercepted
Mr R hasnt offered a plausible explanation as to how someone else was able to gain 
possession of his new bank card and PIN
the funds were withdrawn over a number of days, and on one occasion in branch, 
which is unusual for a fraudster
there were no failed PIN attempts when the transactions took place
Mr R disagreed with Nationwides decision. He said he never made any of the transactions 
and wants the bank to refund him. So, he brought his complaint to this service where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. 
Based on the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said it was more 
likely than not Mr R had made the disputed transactions or authorised a third party to make 
them.
Mr R disagreed. In summary he said:
theres no hard evidence that hes responsible for the disputed transactions
Nationwide havent proved it wasnt fraud and havent carried out a full and proper 
investigation
the bank could have prevented the fraud by sending out the new bank card and PIN 
with a longer duration in between
As Mr R didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. 
I appreciate Mr R was disappointed by the investigators opinion and I can see that he has 
provided a detailed response to what she said about his complaint. Id like to reassure Mr R 
that Ive considered the whole file and whats hes said. But Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. So, I wont be addressing every point in detail which Mr R has raised 
in his submissions. My findings will focus on what I consider to be the central issues. If I 
dont mention any specific point, its not because I failed to take it on board and think about 
it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the outcome.
Mr R has mentioned in his submissions that Nationwide has not proven that the activity on 
Mr Rs account was not fraud. And didnt conduct a proper investigation. I should make it 
clear to Mr R that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service 
acting as an alternative to the courts. We dont consider fraud complaints in the same way 
as a criminal court might. It is not my role to prove exactly what happened. Where there is a 
dispute about what happened  as there is here, and the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, we reach our conclusions on the basis of what we consider is 
most likely to have happened having considered the available evidence and wider 
circumstances. 
Finally, Im aware of Mr Rs concerns about the extent and scope of Nationwides fraud 
investigation, but it is not my role to tell it how investigate fraud cases. On the evidence Ive 
seen I dont think the conclusion it reached was unreasonable.
Did Mr R authorise the disputed transactions?
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr R authorised 
the payments, Nationwide is entitled to hold him liable.
 
Nationwides technical records shows that Mr Rs genuine card and PIN were used to make 
the disputed transactions. So, Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated. But, the 
regulations relevant to this case, the Payment Service Regulations 2017, say that this is not 
on its own enough to enable Nationwide to hold Mr R liable for them. So, I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr R consented to the 
transactions being made or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged.
 
Im satisfied first of all that whoever made the disputed transactions was able to do so 
because they had both Mr Rs card and knew his PIN. Mr R has suggested that his card 
could have been intercepted by someone tampering with his post. Hes also said that hes never had any post go missing. But most post is correctly delivered, and so I think it more 
likely than not that Mr Rs new card and PIN did arrive safely at his home address. 
Ive also not seen any evidence that anyone else would have known Mr R was expecting a 
new bank card, and it wouldnt have been obvious that one had been sent. The bank has 
explained that Mr Rs new bank card and PIN were sent separately, in plain white envelopes. 
So, Im not persuaded that an unknown third party, managed to intercept both Mr Rs card 
and PIN. 
The disputed transactions also dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. I say this because usually 
a fraudster will try and maximise the usage of the account in order to get the greatest benefit 
from the account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the card is 
cancelled. Here the transactions took place over a four-day period. There were balance 
enquiries and instead of withdrawing the maximum £500 when possible, withdrawals were 
made in dribs and drabs. I think its unlikely that a fraudster would run the risk that Mr R 
might have realised he hadnt received his card and PIN. And alerted the bank. But that 
person appears to have been confident theyd be able to access the account over a number 
of days.   
I also note that a £500 withdrawal was made in branch. Nationwide have confirmed that a 
withdrawal slip was signed on this occasion and have provided CCTV stills of the person 
who made the transaction. Having looked at the slip and footage (which isnt the clearest 
image), and photographs Mr R, has sent us of himself, together with his passport signature, 
Im not satisfied that it was Mr R who made the withdrawal. I can also see that Mr R has 
provided evidence which shows he was playing cricket at the time of the transaction. But that 
doesnt in itself show that Mr R didnt have an awareness of the disputed transaction. Its 
quite possible that a third party carried out the transaction with his consent and knowledge. 
I say this because the bank has also said that in order for the branch transaction to be 
authorised the individual wouldve needed to be in possession of Mr Rs card, PIN, and be 
aware of his address and date of birth. Its also said that staff wouldve asked Mr R two 
security questions, which only Mr R wouldve been able to answer. So, if it wasnt Mr R in 
branch, its clear the individual wouldve had to know Mr R reasonably well to carry out the 
transaction. And I havent seen any plausible explanation for how that would be possible 
unless Mr R had authorised the transaction. 
In summary, when I weigh everything up, in my view the most likely explanation here is that 
Mr R either made the transactions himself or allowed someone else to make them, using his 
card and PIN. So, in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Nationwide refund 
the disputed transactions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman