DRN-1955813
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the interest charged on his loan agreement with Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF). He says the 
interest wasnt adequately explained at the outset meaning the agreement was mis-sold.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in January 2018. Under 
section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, the finance provider is responsible for any 
negotiations carried out by the retailer and I have considered the information he was 
provided with when he entered into the loan. 
Mr M raised his complaint after he received an early settlement figure which he 
thought was too high. BPF has explained how the early settlement amount is 
calculated. Mr M says the loan was mis-sold as he wasnt made aware that the 
payments he made at the start of the loan would contain a higher portion of interest 
than those made later in the loan agreement. He says he made it clear he would 
want to settle the agreement early and was told he would only need to pay one 
months interest.
I have no further evidence about what was discussed with the retailer. However, I 
have looked at the information contained in the Your loan explained document. It 
sets out that the interest is calculated by multiplying the loan amount by the interest 
rate and the number of years the loan is spread over. This amount is then added to 
the loan amount and divided by the number of months the loan is spread over to 
calculate the monthly payment amounts. As the loan amount is higher at the start of 
the loan, the interest charge will be higher at that time. As the payments are the 
same throughout the loan term, I find this explanation does support the payments 
containing a higher proportion of interest in the early months than in later months. 
I appreciate Mr Ms comments that the information about how interest is charged isnt 
clear enough. However, I find that the information does explain how the interest is 
calculated and had Mr M been unclear about this it would have been reasonable for 
him to ask for further details at that time.
Mr M has said he was told that if he repaid the loan early, he would need to pay one 
months interest. While it may not have been made clear how the settlement figure 
would be calculated, the repaying early information provided with the loan sets out 
that if the loan is repaid early, interest will be charged up to the settlement date plus 
a further calendar month. I find that this clearly sets out the interest amounts that will 
be charged.
I understand that Mr M is upset that he settlement figure quoted was higher than he 
had expected but based on the information I have seen, I find that BPF provided 
enough information about the loan for Mr M to make an informed decision and I have 
nothing to suggest the settlement amount quoted was incorrect.
Mr M also raised concerns about a possible data breach. I agree with the comments 
made by our investigator about the contact made by BPF with the retailer. I also 
agree that Mr M should contact Information Commissioners Office if he wishes to 
take this further. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman