DRN-2791211
The complaint
Mr H has complained that IGO4 Limited unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy and 
charged him fees to do so.
  
What happened
IGO4 sold Mr H a motor policy which renewed in September each year. Mr H paid for his 
premium by monthly direct debit to a credit provider which is a separate business to IGO4. In 
November 2019 Mr Hs direct debit failed. IGO4 wrote to Mr H that month. It said there was 
money outstanding, from a recalled card payment, and he needed to ring a number to sort 
out payment. Mr H rang the number IGO4 gave and spoke with the credit provider. The 
credit provider told Mr H that it had successfully collected his direct debit at the second 
attempt and he was up-to-date with payments.
IGO4 wrote to Mr H the following week. It told him it had cancelled his policy and that he still 
owed it around £197. Mr H didn't think that was fair. He thought hed paid everything he 
owed and brought his complaint about that to us. 
I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2021. For ease Ive copied the relevant extract 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems that Mr H was aware that a direct debit payment had failed in November 2019. And 
after IGO4 wrote to him he took steps to make that payment. So he rang the number on the 
notification IGO4 had sent to him and spoke to the credit provider. The credit provider told 
Mr H that it had collected the November direct debit at the second attempt. So it said there 
was no payment outstanding but he should contact IGO4. Mr H didn't call IGO4 again. But I 
can understand why he didn't do so. He knew a direct debit hadn't gone through and so was 
prepared to take steps to put it right. But the credit provider told him he didn't owe anything. 
In those circumstances I can understand why he didn't think hed need to ring IGO4 
separately, because he assumed that the payment had crossed with IGO4s letter telling him 
it was outstanding.
But it turns out the payment IGO4 wrote to him about wasn't the one for November 2019. 
Instead it was from July 2019 for Mr Hs previous policy. IGO4 said the credit provider had 
told it Mr H had done an indemnity claim through his bank to recover the July payment. In 
other words it said Mr H had contacted his bank and asked it to refund to him the payment 
hed made to IGO4 in July for his previous policy. And it was that amount IGO4 said was 
outstanding, not the payment due in November 2019. So when Mr H spoke with the credit 
provider it correctly told him his payments - for his current policy - were up to date. But IGO4 
wasn't chasing him for a payment connected to his current policy, it was an outstanding 
payment from his previous, and now lapsed, policy it was trying to recover. And as Mr H 
didn't make that payment after it had written to him, it cancelled his policy. But I don't think 
that was fair.
The notification IGO4 sent to Mr H didn't say which payment was outstanding. So, when 
Mr H rang the number IGO4 had given to him and he was told that he didn't owe anything, I 
don't think he had any reasons to question that. So he couldn't have known that IGO4 
believed he still owed a payment from July, because it hadn't told him. And Mr H had rung 
the number IGO4 had directed him to ring in order to sort the problem out; only to be told 
that there wasn't a problem. So I don't think Mr H knew there was a payment outstanding. 
IGO4 said Mr H would have had to contact the bank himself to request the indemnity claim 
for the July 2019 payment. So he should have known it was outstanding. But I note that 
IGO4s notification to Mr H refers to a card payment and not a direct debit payment. And the 
notification doesn't say whos card it was. So it might not have been Mr H who made the 
indemnity claim. And Mr H said he didn't make an indemnity claim at all. Although he now 
acknowledges that he doesn't have a record of paying his premium instalment in July 2019. 
But he thinks this was because his account had insufficient funds, not because he made an 
indemnity claim.
I haven't investigated exactly who made the indemnity claim and when, or if indeed such a 
claim was made. I don't think it makes a difference. Thats because when IGO4 wrote to 
Mr H, it told him he needed to ring a certain number to make a payment before 
26 November 2019. Mr H rang the number IGO4 had provided in order to pay what he owed 
to prevent IGO4 from cancelling the policy. But he was told he didn't owe anything and there 
was nothing to pay. So Mr H had done what IGO4 had told him to do. And In those 
circumstances I don't think it's fair that IGO4 cancelled his policy, even if it was the credit 
provider, rather than IGO4 itself, who told Mr H he didn't have to pay anything. As far as 
Mr H was aware he didn't owe anything else and IGO4 had no reason to cancel his policy. 
Further, I've listened to the call when Mr H phoned IGO4 to ask why it had cancelled his 
policy. He told it hed already made the outstanding payment and the date of that payment in 
November 2019. IGO4 told him to send it bank statements to prove hed made the payment. 
I don't think that was reasonable. IGO4 did initially tell Mr H during the call that the 
outstanding payment was from July, but its clear to me that Mr H didn't pick up on this as he 
continued to talk about the payment hed made in November. And IGO4 told him hed have 
to send it bank statements to show hed made that payment. But theres no doubt Mr H had 
made a payment in November 2019, so IGO4 shouldnt have been asking him to prove that. 
And if IGO4 couldn't see that payment on its system it should have investigated the matter 
with the credit provider. Had it done so I think the cause of the confusion, that the 
outstanding payment was from July and not November 2019 and it still hadn't been paid, 
would have quickly become apparent. It could then have explained that to Mr H; so he could 
have arranged payment and it could have reinstated his policy. But it didn't do that. I don't 
think that was fair.
Also, the sum Mr H owed was from July 2019 which was for a previous policy. And the policy 
IGO4 cancelled was an entirely separate policy. That is, it was a separate contract of 
insurance with a distinct start and end date. Mr H wasn't in default for any payment towards 
that contract. So I don't think it was fair for IGO4 to cancel Mr Hs current contract because 
of an outstanding payment for a previous contract. And, in other circumstances, for example 
if Mr H had sourced his current policy through an alternative provider, cancelling his current 
policy simply wouldnt have been an option open to IGO4 no matter how much was owed. 
So I don't think it was fair that it cancelled a current policy because sums were owing on a 
previous policy.
Mr H said that because IGO4 cancelled his policy he couldn't travel to work for a week and 
lost a weeks wages. I accept that given he lives in a rural location Mr H couldn't have used 
public transport to get to work. But I wouldn't expect IGO4 to compensate Mr H for lost 
wages. That's because its usually possible to be able to source motor insurance policies 
online or over the phone without delay. Alternatively, rather than not going to work at all, Mr H could have used a taxi service. So I don't think IGO4 needs to compensate Mr H for 
any lost wages if he decided to take time off work while he looked for another policy. 
But I do accept that IGO4 cancelling Mr Hs policy caused him avoidable trouble and upset; 
as far as he was concerned, it cancelled his policy when he didn't owe anything and it didn't 
clearly explain why. I can understand that must have been incredibly frustrating. Hes then 
had to find another insurer and arrange a new policy and this has clearly caused him some 
difficulties. He wouldn't have had to do that if IGO4 hadn't unfairly cancelled his policy.
Then, to add insult to injury, IGO4 told Mr H he still owed it around £197. That figure 
included a sum of around £67 for Mr Hs time on cover. But IGO4 has since confirmed that 
Mr H had paid for his time on cover by direct debit. The other fees, which were mostly a 
cancellation and non-refundable renewal fee were charged as a direct result of IGO4 
cancelling the policy. And as I don't think it did so fairly, it follows that I don't think it was fair 
for it to collect those fees. So I think its reasonable that it waives collection of any fees 
associated with the cancellation of the policy.
Also, as IGO4s unfair cancellation of the policy has clearly been a source of distress and 
inconvenience for Mr H, I think it should pay him £300 compensation to address that. I 
understand Mr H accepts that he still owed IGO4 £68.61 as he didn't make a premium 
payment in July 2019, and he hasn't objected to that sum being deducted from the 
compensation payment. It follows that I think it's fair for IGO4 to reduce the compensation 
figure by that amount and pay Mr H the balance of £231.39. Also, to prevent the cancellation 
from causing Mr H further problems in the future, I think IGO4 should amend its records to 
show that it cancelled the policy in error. And it should write to Mr H to confirm that its done 
so.
Developments 
IGO4 didn't accept my provisional decision. It said the number it provided on its letter asking 
Mr H to ring it was its contact centre number and not that of the credit provider. And its letter 
didn't say it needed Mr H to contact it because of a direct debit failure but because of an 
issue with a card payment. But Mr H chose to speak to the credit provider. It said it didn't see 
how that could be confusing.
IGO4 commented that Id said that the indemnity claim does not matter. It said it was 
Mr Hs responsibility to ensure all of his direct debit payments were made. And the process 
for an indemnity claim involves the card holder asking their bank to recover a payment., 
which isn't the same as a failed direct debit payment. It said that if Mr H hadn't made an 
indemnity claim he should take this up with his bank. 
IGO4 also commented on my provisional finding that I didn't think it was fair for it to charge 
Mr H fees for the cancellation of his policy. It said Mr H had been covered for a full year 
before the policy renewed. And he asked for part of that premium to be returned to him, by 
way of the indemnity claim. It said that wasn't fair and it cancelled the policy correctly. It said 
Mr H made the mistake of contacting the credit provider rather than it. 
IGO4 also noted our investigator had recommended £300 compensation which included 
recognition that Mr H had lost earnings. It said it was unsure how I had arrived at the same 
amount of compensation without covering loss of earnings. 
Mr H accepted my provisional decision. But he said he thought IGO4 had got off very 
lightly. He said he lost £400 in wages. He added that in the area where he lives, he would 
have struggled to find a taxi to pick him up with his very early starting time. Mr H said he wanted a written apology from both IGO4 and the credit provider.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
IGO4 said the number it asked Mr H to ring was for its contact centre and not the credit 
provider. It said its letter didn't mention direct debit payments but referred to a card payment. 
It added that it was Mr Hs choice to ring the credit provider. But I think that somewhat 
misrepresents the situation.
The telephone number IGO4 asked Mr H to ring uses a menu system. And, when Mr H 
spoke with IGO4 after it had cancelled the policy he said that when he called the number 
provided he was put through to the credit provider. In other words dialling the number IGO4 
gave to him resulted in him speaking with the credit provider when using the menu system. 
At the time Mr H rang the number he knew that a direct debit had failed, so it seems hes 
chosen the number from IGO4s telephone menu system to discuss that. And doing so has 
ended up with him speaking with the credit provider, which told Mr H he didn't owe anything. 
I accept IGO4s letter actually refers to an issue with a card payment. But it didn't say when 
that card payment was made. And Mr H has been consistent that he hadn't made an 
indemnity claim against his card. But he did know a direct debit had failed. So he was trying 
to address that, only to be told he didn't owe anything. So I don't think it was a case of Mr H 
choosing to speak to the credit provider rather than IGO4. But instead he was doing what he 
felt he needed to in order to sort out the problem. Perhaps the issue might have been 
avoided if IGO4s communication was clearer to say which menu choice Mr H needed to 
select in order to be put through to the right people when he rang.
IGO4 commented that I said that the indemnity claim does not matter. While thats not what 
I said, the point is that if IGO4s communication had been clearer the events need not have 
unfolded as they did. 
I think its worth repeating that Mr H is adamant that he didn't ever make an indemnity claim 
to his bank. That is he didn't ask his bank to recover a payment hed made on his card. And 
while I haven't investigated that matter I note that when Mr H rang IGO4 to make the 
outstanding payment from November 2019 he said a friend had offered to let him use their 
card to make that payment. That is someone other than Mr H was making the card payment. 
So its entirely possible thats what happened concerning the July 2019 payment. That is 
Mr H didn't have enough funds in his own account to pay his direct debit and asked a friend 
to make the payment for him on their card. Then, some months later and unknown to Mr H, 
the cardholder, perhaps not recognising or remembering the transaction, has asked their 
bank to make the indemnity claim. That could very easily have happened without Mr Hs 
knowledge. And in those circumstances if Mr H had asked his bank about an indemnity claim 
it would have confirmed he hadn't made one. 
Further, IGO4 said it cancelled the policy correctly. But for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision I disagree. The missing payment, for July 2019, was for an entirely 
separate contract to the one that was in place at the time IGO4 cancelled it. The previous 
policy and contract had ended. IGO4 could have pursued the outstanding sum for that 
contract in the same way it would against a former customer who no longer had a policy 
sourced through it. So I don't think it cancelled the existing contract fairly, when the sum was owing from a previous contract which had lapsed. It follows that I don't think it was fair for it 
to charge fees for doing so. 
Turning to the matter of compensation, had I thought Mr H had lost earnings as a result of 
IGO4s errors or omissions I would have instructed it to reimburse Mr H the full amount he 
lost. But I thought Mr H could have sourced an alternative policy to allow him to continue to 
drive to work or found other means of getting there, even if he might have found that difficult. 
So I didn't award loss of earnings compensation. But it was certainly clear to me that IGO4 
had treated Mr H unfairly and that this had caused him a fair amount of frustration as well as 
distress and inconvenience. And when thinking about whether to award compensation and if 
so how much, I think about the impact on the consumer and the sum I think is fair and 
reasonable to address that. I come to my own conclusions on that point. And in this case I'm 
satisfied £300 compensation is warranted. Although, as I said in my provisional decision, I 
think its reasonable that IGO4 deducts the £68.61 Mr H still owes to it from that sum. Had I 
thought hed lost out on earnings that figure would have been considerably higher. 
Mr H said he wanted both IGO4 and the credit provider to provide him with a written apology. 
But the credit provider is a separate business to IGO4 and I haven't looked into any 
complaint Mr H might have about its service. And Im satisfied that the compensation I've 
directed IGO4 to pay is fair and reasonable to address the impact of its errors. So I'm not 
going to instruct it to also issue a written apology.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require IGO4 Limited to:
Cease any action to pursue Mr H for fees/charges connected with the cancelled 
policy.
Pay Mr H compensation of £231.39 to address his distress and inconvenience.
Amend its records to show that the policy cancellation was its error and to write to 
Mr H to confirm its done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman