DRN-1950691
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a loan. 
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to 
Allianz as the seller to keep things simple. Mrs B says Allianz mis-sold her the PPI policy on 
the loan. 
Background
Mrs B bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out the loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Neither Mrs B nor Allianz still have copies of all the original paperwork which isnt 
unreasonable given how long ago the policy was sold. But where I have limited information 
about the sale of a policy, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the evidence 
that is available which includes both Mrs B and Allianzs testimony. 
Mrs B says she was not aware the PPI was optional, and she would never have agreed to it 
as she didnt need it. But Allianz says it made the optional nature of the PPI clear and 
wouldnt have added it unless she agreed to it. Mrs B says she bought the loan and PPI by 
completing a postal application form.
Neither Allianz nor Mrs B still have a copy of Mrs Bs application form, but Allianz has sent in 
a sample copy of the form it was using around the time Mrs B bought this policy. This is the 
best available evidence Ive seen. In it, there was a separate section to add PPI. There was 
a brief description of what the policy did and the cost of the policy. There was a box that 
customers had to tick to buy PPI and they needed to insert the full name and date of birth of 
the person being covered. Theres nothing on this form that indicates customers had to take 
PPI. I think its clear that the PPI was a separate product and customers had the choice to 
either add or decline PPI. 
Overall, I think its more likely Mrs B selected PPI at the time although I can understand why 
she might not remember that now. So, I think Allianz made it clear that PPI was optional and 
Mrs B agreed to have it knowing she had a choice.  
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI  so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure she got enough clear information so she could decide if she wanted to 
take it. 
The information Allianz gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
Mrs B was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. For example, she was employed and didnt suffer from 
any medical conditions, so she wouldnt be affected by anything in the terms about known 
health issues or unusual working arrangements. 
Based on what I know about Mrs Bs circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful to her. Mrs B had a few months sick pay provided by her employer and she also said 
she had some savings. But this policy couldve paid out on top of her sick pay if she was off 
work due to accident and sickness until her balance was repaid  so potentially much longer 
than her sick pay wouldve lasted. It also couldve paid out until her balance was repaid if 
she became unemployed. So, I think she couldve found the policy to be useful. 
With all this in mind, I dont think better information wouldve stopped Mrs B buying it. And I 
dont think that shes lost out as a result of anything Allianz mightve done wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman