DRN-3671268
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) have unfairly reported a late payment on his
mortgage account to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr P says he regularly made his contractual monthly payments (CMPs) over the phone.
But during the Covid-19 pandemic, he was spending a lot longer trying to get through, so he
decided to start making his payments online instead.
Mr P attempted to pay online in November and December 2020. But when funds were
returned to his account in January 2021, he realised the payments hadnt gone through and
he contacted TSB immediately to make both payments.
Sometime later, in November 2021, Mr P became aware that a late payment marker had
been recorded on his credit file for December 2020. Mr P complained that he had attempted
to make the payment on time, and he wasnt made aware until the funds were returned to his
account that something had gone wrong. He made the payments promptly and as he hadnt
received any letters about it  he hadnt expected there to be any impact to his credit file.
TSB explained that it has a duty to report late payments and as the CMP hadnt been made
for December, it had correctly reported the late payment.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps concerns, but they didnt find that TSB had done anything
wrong. Mr P disagreed, so the complaint was referred to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 July 2022. Here is an extract:
Mr P was sent a letter on 1 October 2020 that said, When making on-line payments please
use your 14-digit mortgage number followed by two zeros with no slashes or dashes,
which will ensure that your payments will be applied across your mortgage sub accounts.
Mr P also had a phone call with TSB on 27 October 2020 where this information was
repeated.
When Mr P made his payments in November and December 2020  he did not add the
additional zeros required. As a result, the funds were not directed to his mortgage account
and were ultimately returned to him in January 2021.
TSB has explained that Mr P had a 22p credit on his mortgage account prior to his missed
payment in November 2020. That meant that when he missed the first payment, his balance
was not in arrears for the full CMP amount. And in these circumstances, TSB wouldnt
usually send a letter to the customer to inform them of the missed payment. It also didnt
apply a late payment marker for that month.
When Mr P made the same mistake in December 2020, the account went into arrears
greater than one months CMP. So TSB would ordinarily send a letter to the customer about
this, but as Mr P made the payment promptly and his account was brought back up to date 
there was no need for TSB to send him a letter about it.
Mr P accepts that he made an error, but he doesnt feel the late payment marker is fair under
the circumstances. Ive thought about this carefully and I agree with our investigator that
TSB didnt do anything wrong at the time it reported the missed payment to the credit
reference agencies. Ultimately, TSB met its obligations as set out in the terms and
conditions of Mr Ps agreement.
That said, I do think it would be fair for TSB to offer to remove the late payment marker from
Mr Ps credit file. Ill explain why.
Mr P accepts that he made a mistake and that TSB is not responsible for that. But Mr P says
he could have corrected matters much sooner if hed been made aware of the problems and
then he could have avoided any detriment to his credit file. Ive already explained why TSB
didnt contact him and I cant ask it to change its processes. But there is clear evidence that
Mr P sent his full CMP amounts on time on both occasions  albeit with the two zeros
missing from the end of the account number.
While the funds didnt credit Mr Ps mortgage accounts when they should have  they would
have been held on a TSB holding account until they were returned to him. The only mistake
Mr P made was in not adding the two zeros required. His mortgage account number was
clearly associated with the payments and so I think there was enough information for TSB to
know which account the funds were intended for even if they couldnt process the payments.
Once Mr P became aware, he responded so quickly that TSB didnt send him a letter to
inform him of the missed payment or possible consequences. Considering everything, while
Im satisfied TSB didnt act inappropriately originally in reporting the December 2020
missed payment to the credit reference agencies, I do think the late payment marker on
Mr Ps credit file is an unfair reflection of Mr Ps account history. TSB held the funds on their
accounts during the time that hes been recorded as having missed his payment. He
corrected his mistake as soon as was possible. And I think its unlikely Mr P will make the
same mistake again. So, in the circumstances, I think it would be reasonable for TSB to
contact the credit references agencies and advise them to remove the late payment marker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P didnt respond to the provisional decision, but TSB said it didnt agree it should remove 
the late payment marker from Mr Ps credit file. It provided new evidence that shows Mr P 
didnt use any part of his mortgage reference number when he made the CMPs in November 
and December 2020, but only put MORTGAGE as a reference. So TSB didnt know where 
to assign the money and instead the payments were returned the next working day following 
each transaction. 
As Ive said above, I agree that TSB didnt do anything wrong at the time it reported 
December 2020s missed payment to Mr Ps credit file. TSB only met its obligations as set 
out in the terms and conditions of Mr Ps agreement. But I still think that in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint, there are other factors to be considered. Mr P regularly paid his CMPs over the phone and had no history of late payments. But Mr P 
found TSBs phone lines were much busier than usual and it was becoming more difficult to 
make his payments that way. Because of this, Mr P followed advice hed received from TSB 
to make his CMPs online instead. Mr P manually attempted to make both payments  the 
funds left his account as far as he was aware and while he didnt put the correct reference 
on either payment, its clear that he intended to make both payments on time and that he 
had the funds available to do so. The funds were in fact being held by TSB until they were 
returned.
Mr P had regularly made his payments on time using a different method up to this point and 
if it werent for the recommendation he received to make the payments using a different 
method  his payments ought to have been received on time as usual. Mr P wasnt alerted to 
the fact something was wrong with the payments hed made until sometime later. His first 
returned payment didnt trigger a letter to inform him that hed missed a payment because 
his account wasnt in arrears up to the amount of his CMP amount. He also didnt receive the 
returned funds for some time. But as soon as Mr P became aware there was a problem he 
took action to correct it immediately. 
Mr P has continued to make his CMPs on time ever since the mistake occurred  it was 
purely a problem with the transition to a new payment method which TSB recommended him 
do. I dont agree with TSB that removing the marker would not be treating other customers 
fairly as the circumstances may be different. Considering everything, I still think the late 
payment marker on his account is an unfair reflection of his payment history and I think it 
would be fair to have it removed under the circumstances.
Putting things right
TSB should arrange for the late payment marker for December 2020s payment to be 
removed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman