DRN-3673870
The complaint
Miss S is a sole trader. She complains that delays in opening her business bank account 
with Lloyds Bank PLC deprived her of the opportunity to apply to the bank for a loan through 
the government-backed Recovery Loan Scheme.
What happened
Miss S opened a business bank account with Lloyds on 31 December 2020.
Miss S subsequently wanted to apply to Lloyds for a loan under the Recovery Loan Scheme. 
But at the time of her enquiry in June 2021, Lloyds told her that it was only considering 
applications from customers whod banked with it for 12 months or more. So Miss S wasnt 
yet eligible to apply.
Miss S complained to Lloyds as she thought it shouldve opened a new account for her 
sooner than it did. She said shed first attempted to open the account in October 2020, but 
was mistakenly turned away. She feared this would now leave her ineligible to access the 
Recovery Loan Scheme, as she wouldnt be able to satisfy the banks requirement to have 
held her account for 12 months in time to apply before the Scheme closed on 31 December 
2021.
Lloyds didnt think it had delayed Miss Ss account application or handled her request for a 
Recovery Loan unfairly. It said:
It had suspended new business account applications from March 2020 until 
December 2020 to focus on supporting existing customers through the pandemic.
The only exception was for customers seeking a Bounce Back Loan. While 
acknowledging that Miss S had enquired about a business account in October 2020, 
it said she had told the bank she didnt require a loan  so it couldnt help her at that 
time. 
When Miss S got back in touch in December 2020, she wanted to apply for a Bounce 
Back Loan  so the bank was able to support her request.
Miss S couldnt apply for a Recovery Loan until shed held her business account for 
12 months, so it suggested she get back in touch when she was eligible. 
The bank did, however, accept that there was a discrepancy in the information it gave 
Miss S in October 2020 as to why it couldnt open an account for her at the time and that it 
ought to have advised her that it would update any changes to its processes on its website. 
It paid her £100 compensation for any inconvenience this caused.
Miss S remained unhappy and asked us to look into things. She was particularly unhappy at 
the prospect of being unable to apply for a Recovery Loan, which wouldve been avoided 
had the bank opened her business account after she initially enquired in October 2020. And 
even if shed not been able to get a Recovery Loan, she said that an unsuccessful 
application wouldve led to an automatic offer of alternative support  that shed now also 
missed out on. She also thought that there had been confusion on the banks part in that it 
had declined her initial request because she was a new business, which she wasnt. And 
she said shed spent hours trying to resolve things with Lloyds, causing stress and impacting 
her business.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ss complaint but didnt think recommend that Lloyds 
take any further action. She didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong in declining 
Miss Ss initial request for an account in October 2020. In any event, she didnt think this had 
impacted Miss Ss position  as she still wouldnt have met the 12-month requirement when 
asking Lloyds about the Recovery Loan in June 2021, and as she remained free to apply 
once she did. 
Miss S didnt accept our investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there has been some understandable confusion as to the basis on which Lloyds was 
accepting business account applications at the time of Miss Ss initial enquiry in October 
2020. And I can understand why this means Miss S has found it difficult to rely on what the 
bank has told her about this. 
However, having considered everything that both Miss S and Lloyds have sent us  and 
after carrying out my own review of what the bank was saying publicly at the time of the 
initial enquiry  Im satisfied that Lloyds wasnt accepting new business account applications 
in October 2020. It therefore didnt make a mistake when declining to consider Miss Ss 
request at that time.
Even if I am wrong about that  and were to accept that the account ought to have been 
opened in October 2020  I dont think the relatively small delay in opening Miss Ss account 
prejudiced her position. At the time of her complaint, Miss S was understandably anxious 
that she wouldnt be able to apply for a Recovery Loan. She needed to have held her Lloyds 
business account for 12 months but  having only opened it on 31 December 2020  she 
would only meet this requirement on the day the Loan Scheme was set to close, 31 
December 2021. But in the event, the Scheme was extended  and applications could be 
made until 30 June 2022. A new iteration of the Scheme has subsequently launched too, 
and remains open. 
So I dont think any delay on Lloyds part in opening Miss Ss business account deprived her 
of the opportunity to apply for a Recovery Loan, or any alternative support. There is also no 
guarantee that Miss Ss application wouldve been successful.
As noted above, there has been some confusion caused by Lloyds lack of clarity on its 
processes and requirements. Its already recognised this and paid Miss S compensation of 
£100 for the inconvenience caused. Taking all of the above into account, I think that is a fair 
way of resolving the matter  so Im not requiring the bank to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 Ben Jennings
Ombudsman