DRN-3478968
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs C complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mi-sold payment
protection insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 1996.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr B and Mrs C did not agree with that view and the matter was passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
Upon considering the matter, I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. But I wanted to 
expand on the reasoning provided by our adjudicator. Accordingly, I issued a provisional 
decision in order to give the parties an opportunity to comment on how I proposed to decide 
the complaint. 
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said: 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Mrs C, but I dont intend to uphold their complaint. Ill
explain why below.
The parties agree PPI was sold to Mr B and Mrs C during a face to face meeting. I 
cant know what was said during that meeting. Where the facts in a case are in 
dispute (as they are here), I must apply the balance of probabilities. In other words, I 
will decide whats most likely to have happened based on the evidence before me.
In this case, I have carefully considered whet Mr B and Mrs C recall about the sale, 
along with the documentary evidence they have sent. To be clear, I have 
considered the 12-page personal financial report they provided, which is dated 20 
April 1996. Ive also considered the electronic information Halifax retained in 
respect of the mortgage.
The first thing Ive considered is whether it would have been made clear to Mr B and 
Mrs C that the PPI was optional, and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt 
want it. Mrs C says she cannot recall PPI being discussed at the point of sale. As I 
said above, Mr B provided us with a personal finance report, which he says shows 
unquestionably that PPI had not been discussed.
I have considered the financial report Mr B provided. Im sorry to disappoint him and 
Mrs C, but I dont agree that it is a smoking gun as he describes it. The document 
itself is a report of a financial planning meeting that took place on 20 April 1996. On 
the page headed financial objectives, it is stated that that no action was required in 
respect of an income protection policy. Mr B believes this means that Halifax 
recommended no action in respect of PPI.
However, I need to make clear that an income protection policy is a completely 
separate financial product to PPI. An income protection policy is cover that would 
provide the policyholder with an income if they were unable to work. I would expect 
the amount payable each month to be linked to a percentage of the policyholders 
earnings. I would also expect there to be a deferral period of anything up to 12 
months.
On the other hand, a PPI policy is something that is linked to a specific financial 
product, like a mortgage or a loan. A successful claim would be linked to the 
repayments for that financial product and its associated expenses. It would not 
usually be something that would replace the policyholders income to be spent at 
their discretion.
As I said, I can see that this report was prepared after a financial planning meeting. 
I would not expect a PPI policy to be sold or discussed at such a meeting, which 
appears to have been about Mr B and Mrs Cs long-term financial plans. I would 
expect PPI to have been sold at the same time as the mortgage. I can see the 
valuation of Mr B and Mrs Cs prospective property purchase was undertaken on 
27 February 1996, so I think its most likely the mortgage and the PPI were sold 
before that time. It looks as though the policy started to run when the mortgage 
funds were drawn down on 31 May 1996. In other words, I think PPI would have 
been sold before they attended the meeting on 20 April 1996.
Putting all of this together, Ive provisionally found that the income protection policy 
referred to in the financial planning report is a completely separate financial product 
to PPI. Im afraid I dont accept Mr Bs argument that it shows PPI was not 
discussed when the mortgage was sold.
Despite that, its still possible that Halifax didnt discuss the PPI at the point of sale. 
Neither Mr B nor Mrs C recall the cover from the point of sale. Mr B said he was 
unaware of the policy until a claims management company ran a PPI check on his 
behalf in or around 2019. I accept that what Mr B and Mrs C told us is what they 
honestly remember about the sale. But I also have to bear in mind that it is difficult 
to remember precisely what happened 25 years ago, which is when this policy was 
sold.
Upon considering the electronic evidence Halifax provided to us, I can see that Mr B 
appears to have made an unemployment claim on the PPI policy. It looks as though 
he notified Halifax there was a problem with his job in or around October 2002. A 
successful claim was then paid for a period of 128 days between 8 February 2002 
and 11 May 2003. The total value of the claim was £1,933.32.
That brings me to the provisional conclusion that Mr B and Mrs C must have known 
about PPI cover. If they didnt know about it, Mr B wouldnt have known to make a 
claim. From the electronic information provided by Halifax, I have seen that some 
questions were asked in respect of the PPI policy, such as whether they were 
aware of any impending unemployment or had any pre-existing medical conditions.
I accept that neither Mr B nor Mrs C understandably and genuinely now dont 
remember PPI being discussed. But I think the claim that was made a few years 
after the sale indicates it probably was discussed at the relevant time, and they 
knew it had been sold. I cant reasonably find that the policy was added without 
their knowledge.
Ive treated this as an advised sale. So that means Halifax had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr B and Mrs Cs needs. To help me 
decide whether the policy was likely suitable, Ive looked at what we know about the 
terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive considered at length what Mr B and Mrs 
C told us about their personal circumstances at the relevant time.Although this was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up to cover only Mr B. I can see 
that if theyd had to make a claim on the policy, Mr B and Mrs Cs mortgage 
repayments and associated expenses would have been covered for up to 12 
months if Mr B was unable to work because of illness or if he lost his job.
Mr B and Mrs C told us they didnt need PPI because they already had adequate 
means in place if Mr B was out of work. It is not entirely clear to me how much sick 
pay Mr B would have received if he was off work. But with PPI, he could have used 
any sick pay on his other essential expenditure at what could have been a very 
difficult time if he was out of work.
It was submitted that Mr B and Mrs C had substantial savings in excess of £40,000 
and so they didnt need PPI. Again, I accept that this is an honest recollection of 
their circumstances back in 1996. But it appears to me from the financial planning 
report that their savings were more modest at the relevant time. In any event, with 
PPI, they could have paid their mortgage and kept those savings intact.
It was also argued that Mr B and Mrs Cs income was significant and sufficient to 
pay their mortgage if Mr B lost his job. However, upon considering the financial 
planning report, I think it would have been difficult to meet their obligations with just 
one salary.
Ive checked whether any of the policys exclusions or limitations would have 
affected Mr Bs ability to make a claim. I understand he was in good health at the 
time the policy was sold. Accordingly, I think it is unlikely that he would have been 
affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. Similarly, I 
havent seen anything unusual about Mr Bs employment circumstances that would 
have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. As 
only Mr B was covered by the policy, none of the exceptions would have applied to 
Mrs C.
I must stress that this borrowing was secured on Mr B and Mrs Cs home, which 
could have been at risk if they fell behind with their mortgage repayments. Putting all 
of this together, Im satisfied its most likely that the PPI recommendation Halifax 
made was suitable for their needs.
Even so, Halifax still had to give Mr B and Mrs C enough information about the PPI 
so they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. That 
information should have been clear, fair and not misleading. I accept its possible 
Halifax didnt tell them everything it should have done. But Ive set out above how 
PPI could have been helpful if Mr B wasnt working. So I dont think Mr B and Mrs C 
would have acted differently if Halifax had given them more or better information 
about the PPI. On that basis, I cant say PPI was mis-sold.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me 
to consider. Halifax and Mrs C did not reply. Mr B responded to indicate he accepted my 
provisional decision. I am grateful for his gracious reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided me with any further information or evidence to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. So for the reasons set out above, I dont 
uphold the complaint. I dont require Halifax to take any further action. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman