DRN-2290031
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Wilson Tarquin Limited accepted, but failed to progress, 
their claim for a refund of payment protection insurance (PPI) from their mortgage lender.  
And theyve lost the opportunity to make a claim, as the PPI claim deadline has now passed.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs T contacted Wilson Tarquin to make a claim for PPI theyd paid 
for a previous mortgage.  They completed online forms giving Wilson Tarquin consent to act 
for them in the claim.  They each received an email, which confirmed receipt of their 
documentation and telling them that Wilson Tarquin would start to progress their claim.
The deadline for submitting PPI claims was 29 August 2019.
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs T found some documents relating to their old mortgage.  So 
they contacted Wilson Tarquin to find out how to send them the documents and to ask how 
their claim was progressing.  They say they were told that Wilson Tarquin were waiting for 
some information from the lender.  
Mr and Mrs T sent in their documents.  But they werent acknowledged by Wilson Tarquin  
so Mr and Mrs T called again to check theyd been received.  During that call, they were told 
that their claim hadnt been lodged, because Wilson Tarquin hadnt had Mr and Mrs Ts 
consent.  
Wilson Tarquins employee told Mr and Mrs T that a senior manager would call them about 
what had happened.  But they didnt get a call.  So they complained.
Wilson Tarquin considered Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and rejected it.  They said in their 
complaint letter that documentation they received is assessed by their quality assurance 
team.  And Mr and Mrs Ts documentation had failed.  They said the email Mr and Mrs T had 
received was generic and confirmed receipt of their paperwork.  And they said they didnt 
hear from Mr and Mrs again until September 2019  after the PPI deadline date.
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied with Wilson Tarquins response.  So they brought their 
complaint to us.  
Our investigator was told by Wilson Tarquin that they had no documents they could provide.  
So she considered the matter as fully as she could on the basis of information from Mr and 
Mrs T.  
She concluded that it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs T to have understood from the email 
acknowledgement they received in March that their claim was being processed.  And that 
was the reason theyd not tried to make a claim through any other business.  She thought 
that Mr and Mrs T should be compensated with a payment of £250 for losing the opportunity 
to make a claim.  And that they should receive a further £75 for the inconvenience Wilson 
Tarquin had put them to.
Mr and Mrs T accepted the investigators view.  Wilson Tarquin havent replied, despite 
saying they intended to.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
This complaint centres on the emails Mr and Mrs T received in March 2019.  They 
understood from those that their claim was being dealt with by Wilson Tarquin.  Wilson 
Tarquin say that the emails were a generic acknowledgement of the paperwork Mr and    
Mrs T sent them.
The emails say:
Thank you for signing your documentation.
We can confirm that this has now been received and we will now begin to progress your 
claim.  A copy of the signed paperwork is attached to this email for your reference.
If you have any questions or require assistance, please contact us.
I dont think that email just acknowledges the documents.  It clearly states that Wilson 
Tarquin would progress the claim.  And it doesnt say anything about Wilson Tarquin having 
to do anything else before theyd do that.  So I think its reasonable for Mr and Mrs T to 
believe, from that email, that their claim was being dealt with.
Wilson Tarquin have said that they tried to make Mr and Mrs T aware there was an issue 
with their documents by calling and texting them.  But theyve not provided any recordings or 
notes to support that.  Mr and Mrs T have said they were never contacted.  
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs T left matters in Wilson Tarquins hands until they found 
documents they thought might help their claim.  This prompted them to contact Wilson 
Tarquin.  Im persuaded by this that they took action when it was needed.  And, if theyd 
have been contacted by Wilson Tarquin for more information, theyd have dealt with that 
request.
So I dont think its fair for Wilson Tarquin to say that Mr and Mrs Ts claim wasnt dealt with 
because Mr and Mrs T didnt contact them when asked to.  Im satisfied that Wilson Tarquin 
didnt process their claim as theyd said they would.  And I think they should compensate Mr 
and Mrs T for not doing that.
Putting things right
Our investigator thought Wilson Tarquin should pay Mr and Mrs T compensation totalling 
£325.  I think this is the right amount to reflect the impact their mistake had on Mr and Mrs T.  
So Im directing Wilson Tarquin to pay them that amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im directing Wilson Tarquin Limited to pay Mr and Mrs T £325 
compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman