DRN-2157541
The complaint
Mr K is a director of D. Mr K complains on behalf of D that Movo Insurance Brokers Ltd didnt 
make him aware of a significant term of Ds fleet insurance policy and this led to the insurer 
turning down Ds claim on the policy. 
For ease of reading Ill refer to Mr K throughout. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr K bought a fleet insurance policy through Movo then in April 2019 he 
contacted Movo to add a car to the policy. In November 2019 the car Mr K added to the 
policy in April was stolen, because of this Mr K claimed on his policy. The insurer reviewed 
the claim and turned it down because Mr Ks car didnt have a Thatcham approved Category 
5 tracker installed. Mr K said he hadnt been told he needed one and complained to Movo. 
Movo reviewed Mr Ks complaint and didnt uphold it. Movo said the documents were clear 
Mr K needed a Thatcham approved Category 5 tracker installed, otherwise theft and 
malicious damage wouldnt be covered. Movo also said it had confirmed this in writing to Mr 
K before the car was added to the policy. Mr K said he didnt get the documents sent to him 
or the e-mail telling him which tracker he needed, As Mr K wasnt happy with Movo response 
he brought his complaint here 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that  
the statement of fact set out which tracker Mr K needed to install. He also found that Mr K 
had responded to Movos e-mails which told him the type of tracker needed. Mr K didnt think 
this was fair, he said he hadnt signed any documents and he should have been made to 
sign the policy documents to show he agreed with them. 
As Mr K didnt accept our investigators opinion the complaint has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Movo is an insurance broker and isnt responsible for deciding whether Mr Ks claim should 
be paid. That is done by the insurer. Ive therefore not looked into the outcome of Mr Ks 
claim only whether Movo did what it was supposed to when adding this car to Mr Ks policy. 
Movo needs to bring any significant terms or exclusions to Mr Ks attention before amending 
the policy. I can see the documents sent to Mr K at the time say that theft or malicious 
damage wont be covered unless a Thatcham Cat 5 tracker is fitted. I can also see Movo e-
mailed this to Mr K before the car was added to the policy. 
Mr K said he didnt receive these documents or the e-mails. However, I can see he replied to 
the e-mails confirming which tracker needed to be fitted and also queried the price for adding 
this car to the policy. He replied to the emails, I think its most likely he received them. As its 
a significant term to have a particular type of tracker fitted, and Movo brought it to Mr Ks 
attention before the policy was sold, Im not persuaded Movo did anything wrong. 
Ive also considered Mr Ks point about not signing to say hes read and agreed to the terms 
of the policy, but I dont think that matters here. I say that because the terms Mr K is referring 
to are ones between him and the insurer, not Movo. Also, if Mr K didnt agree to the terms 
then there would be no cover in place, as there is no acceptance of the contract. So, it would 
be strange to try and claim on a policy seven months later if you hadnt agreed and accepted 
the terms. And as Mr K replied to Movos e-mails about the tracker checking which one he 
needed to install, Im satisfied Movo highlighted this term to him. So, I wont be telling Movo 
to do anything different. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman