DRN-4059916
The complaint
Mrs O complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th<n 
(RSA) and the deduction applied to the settlement for her contents claim regarding a 
professional clean at her alternative accommodation.
What happened
Mrs O held an insurance policy underwritten by RSA. Unfortunately, in July 2021, Mrs Os 
home was flooded due to a flash flood in her area, causing damage to the building and its 
contents. So, Mrs O contacted RSA to make a claim.
RSA accepted the claim. And as Mrs Os home was deemed uninhabitable, she was placed 
in alternative accommodation. Initially, Mrs O was placed in a hotel but soon after, a serviced 
apartment was found for her and her family.
In the summer of 2022, the repair work to Mrs Os home was completed. And so, she moved 
out of the serviced apartment paid for by RSA. But Mrs Os contents settlement was 
deducted the amount needed for this serviced apartment to be professionally cleaned after 
they had left. Mrs O didnt think this was fair, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs O felt the professional clean should be covered by RSA, as the clean was a requirement 
of the tenancy agreement she signed when she moved into the apartment. She explained 
that as she had only moved into this apartment because of the flood to her home, she felt 
any costs associated to the apartment were the responsibility of RSA to pay. So, she wanted 
RSA to refund her the amount her claim had been deducted for the professional clean.
RSA responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. When investigating Mrs Os complaint 
about the cleaning cost, they identified delays and service failures separate to this. And they 
paid Mrs O £150 to recognise any impact these failures caused. But RSA felt they had acted 
fairly when deducting the cost of the professional clean, as they thought Mrs O had left the 
apartment in a differing condition to when she moved in. So, they didnt think they needed to 
do anything more regarding this. Mrs O remained unhappy with this response, so she 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the tenancy 
agreement clearly explained that Mrs O needed to return the apartment and its contents in 
the state it was when she moved in. And from the evidence our investigator had seen, 
including the check out report, they were satisfied cleaning was needed at the property after 
Mrs O have moved out. So, they didnt think RSA acted unfairly when deducting the cost of 
this clean from Mrs Os contents settlement. And they didnt think RSA needed to do 
anything more.
Mrs O didnt agree. She explained she had considered arranging her own professional clean 
but felt this was a risk as the landlord could still decide the clean wasnt suitable and so, 
charge her for another one. So, Mrs O explained she took the decision to allow the landlord 
to clean the property after she had left. And she maintained her belief that this cost should 
be the responsibility of RSA, as she was living in the apartment as part of her ongoing 
insurance claim and its alternative accommodation allowance.
Our investigator considered these comments, but their view remained unchanged. They 
didnt think the cleaning cost was covered under the insurance policy Mrs O held and they 
felt it was Mrs Os responsibility to ensure the apartment was in the same condition when 
she left as it was when she moved in. So, they reinforced their belief that RSA didnt need to 
take further action. Mrs O continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs O. I recognise Mrs O was 
forced the leave her property through no fault of her own, due to the damage caused by the 
flood. And I understand the upheaval and stress this situation wouldve caused. I also 
appreciate Mrs O entered into a tenancy agreement for the serviced apartment as this was 
the accommodation provided to her by RSA as part of her alternative accommodation. So, I 
can understand why Mrs O believes, and would assume that any costs associated with this 
apartment would be the responsibility of RSA to cover.
But for me to say RSA should pay Mrs O the cleaning fee they initially deducted from the 
settlement of her contents claim, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. 
So, in this situation, Id need to be satisfied they made a mistake when deciding to place this 
deduction on Mrs Os settlement. Or, if I dont think they did make a mistake here, that it was 
unfair of them to do so. And in this situation, I dont think I can say thats the case. 
I recognise in RSAs final response to Mrs Os complaint; they made an offer to recognise 
service issues separate to the cleaning fee. I cant see that this offer is in dispute. And Mrs O 
confirmed with our investigator that her complaint centres around the cleaning fee and all of 
Mrs Os comments provided to our investigators initial thoughts also focus on this issue. So, 
Ive focused solely on this issue as I believe this is the only one in contention.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the insurance policy Mrs O held. And these 
explain that if your house is made uninhabitable as a result of damage to your buildings we 
will pay the additional costs of a similar short term accommodation. Its not in dispute that 
Mrs Os home was uninhabitable. And I can see RSA arranged, and have paid for, the short 
term accommodation Mrs O lived in, including the rent for the serviced apartment. So, I think 
RSA have acted within this condition of the policy.
But I dont think this condition speaks directly to any additional fees associated to this 
accommodation, such as the professional cleaning fee. So, Ive turned to the tenancy 
agreement Mrs O signed when moving into the apartment, to understand what the 
requirements of the tenancy were.
Under the End of Tenancy section, it explains that By or on the end date you will return the 
apartment and its contents to us in the sate and condition required by your responsibilities in 
the agreement as well as stating that you will professionally clean the apartment and 
contents (such as carpets and curtain and soft furnishings) to our satisfaction or reimburse us for the costs that we incur doing this.
So, I do think it was a requirement of the tenancy agreement Mrs O entered into to ensure 
the apartment had been professionally cleaned. But I must take into consideration the fact 
that this tenancy agreement was agreed between Mrs O and the apartment landlord directly. 
And that this tenancy agreement is separate to the insurance policy provided by RSA. So, I 
dont think I can say that RSA are automatically responsible for all of the costs associated to 
the tenancy agreement.
In this situation, while I do appreciate a professional clean was a requirement of the 
agreement, I do think Mrs O had the ability to arrange for her own clean to be completed. 
Mrs O herself has confirmed she chose not to take this option, as she felt she ran the risk of 
being charged twice if she paid for a professional clean and the landlord deemed this not 
suitable.
But having read the terms of the tenancy agreement, I dont think it explicitly states that Mrs 
O ran the risk of being charged twice. While the term does state the clean needed to be to 
the satisfaction of the landlord, I think its reasonable to assume that most professional 
cleans would likely reach this standard. So, I think Mrs O chose not to arrange her own clean 
and so, she accepted to be charged whatever the price of the clean would be from the 
landlord.
And I also think because of this, Mrs O accepted she would be leaving the apartment in a 
different state to when she moved into it, as a professional clean wouldve been completed 
before she moved in. So, I dont think Mrs O met the condition within the tenancy agreement 
which explained Mrs O needed to return the apartment in the state required within her 
responsibility, as I can see within the your responsibilities section it states that Mrs O was 
required to Keep the interior of the apartment and the contents in good repair and in clean 
condition.
So, I think it was Mrs Os own decision not to arrange a clean and so, leave the apartment in 
a differing condition to when she moved in. And so, I think it follows that it was Mrs Os own 
decision to breach a condition within the tenancy agreement that was between her and the 
landlord, not RSA. Because of this, I dont think I can say RSA have made a mistake, or 
acted unfairly, when deciding to deduct the cleaning fee from Mrs Os contents settlement, 
as I dont think the insurance policy was designed to cover Mrs O for breaches of separate 
agreements, even though this breach resulted from the alternative accommodation RSA 
arranged. And because of this, I dont think RSA need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited trading as More Th<n.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman