DRN-3594125
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains about Society of Lloyds handling of a motor 
claim under its fleet insurance policy. Any reference to Society of Lloyds (SOL) in this 
decision includes the underwriting syndicate at SOL that underwrites Ls policy. 
Mrs G, who is a director of L, brings the complaint on Ls behalf. Any reference to L in this 
decision includes all representatives acting on its behalf. 
What happened
L took out a fleet insurance policy. In February 2020 Ls vehicle was involved in a road traffic 
accident involving two other parties. 
Upon receiving notification of the claim from the third-party insurer and receiving Ls claim 
form, SOL asked L for a more detailed statement from its driver on what happened. SOL 
also contacted the police to request a copy of the statement from the officers that attended 
the accident scene. 
L explained the driver of the vehicle has learning difficulties and therefore it took a statement 
from the driver over the phone and provided it to SOL. 
In the statement, Ls driver said that as he came round the corner, he saw that a collision 
had already taken place. He said the road surface was slippery due to black ice and the road 
had not been gritted by the Local Authority. As he was passing, he clipped a third-party 
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which he believes to be an off-duty police 
officer. The third-party vehicle then hit another car, third-party two. Ls driver said the police 
that attended the accident scene confirmed fault could not be established because of the icy 
road surface which was caused by a damaged drain which had iced over. Ls driver also said 
the contact was very minimal and repair to the vehicle was arranged.
SOL received a response from the police saying that only an abstract report was available. 
The report confirmed that police attended the scene of the accident and didnt mention 
liability. A full police report was requested however SOL didnt receive a response. 
SOL said third-party one and two both said in their statement that Ls driver lost control of 
the vehicle and made contact with third-party one, which was approaching from the opposite 
direction. Third-party two was travelling behind Ls vehicle and swerved to avoid the incident 
but ended up colliding with third-party one.  
The third-party insurer threatened to commence legal proceedings as it held Ls driver at 
fault for the accident. SOL wrote to Ls representative on 24 December explaining that the 
evidence points to Ls driver losing control of his vehicle on an icy surface. SOL said in the 
letter that unless it heard back from L by 4 January it would settle on this basis. As SOL 
didnt hear back from L, they proceeded to settle the claim based of the evidence they had. 
L said that its representatives office was closed when SOL wrote to it on 24 December and 
by the time it saw the correspondence from SOL and responded on 9 January, the claim had 
already been settled. 
L disputes liability and says the accident took place with no blame. L says it was unaware 
that liability had been accepted by SOL and only found this out when it received its annual 
claims experience. L believes its driver was not responsible for the damage caused to the 
third-party vehicle. L would like its claims experience to be rectified and no claims discount 
to be reinstated. 
Our investigator upheld Ls complaint in part. He thought SOL was entitled by the policy 
terms and conditions to settle the claim as they saw fit. He said that SOL had been fair and 
reasonable in recording the incident as a fault claim given that there was some contact made 
with the third-party vehicle and lack of evidence to support Ls drivers version of events. 
The investigator did however say that SOL could have handled the investigation of the claim 
better, in particular when getting a statement from Ls driver. Ls driver was unable to provide 
a written statement because of his learning difficulties. The investigator thought it would 
have been better for SOL to send a claims investigator in person to take a statement and 
read it back to the driver. He said this may have cleared up some of the discrepancies in the 
evidence such as the third-party driver being an off-duty police officer and clarification on 
which vehicle the driver was saying lost control on the black ice. Although he said this 
wouldnt have changed the outcome of how liability was settled, he felt that SOL should pay 
L £150 compensation for poor customer service during the investigation of the claim. 
SOL accepted the investigators view to pay £150 compensation given that the matter had 
been ongoing for some time and to avoid further delay. 
L didnt agree with the investigators findings or to the offer of £150 compensation and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure L that Ive read and carefully considered everything that it has said. 
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have 
raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by L, and SOL, to reach what I think is 
a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Whilst L clearly didnt agree with SOLs decision on settling the claim, what it is also 
disputing is that the claim is recorded as a fault claim which has an impact on future 
premiums for L. 
This is clearly a matter of great principle to L and I fully understand L is dissatisfied with the 
way SOL has settled the claim when it believed that its driver wasnt responsible for the 
damage caused to the third-party vehicle. 
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is to investigate how the insurer made
the decision to settle the claim. Did they act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms
and conditions of the policy?
In the terms and conditions of Ls policy, SOLs ability to determine liability is included
under the heading Claim requirements  rights and obligations. Here it says, in summary SOL has total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim.
So, SOL is entitled, under the terms and conditions of their policy with L, to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as they see fit. And this means SOL can settle the claim as they feel 
appropriate irrespective of what L said and whether it agreed with the outcome or not. So 
while I understand why L feels that SOL didnt give it enough time to respond to their letter 
dated 24 December, it doesnt change the fact that ultimately SOL had full discretion in how 
to settle the claim. That means it doesnt require Ls knowledge or consent to decide how to 
settle a claim. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
And I think its a reasonable term, as ultimately SOL will have to pay any settlement, so they 
should be able to decide how to settle. 
This having been said, I would still expect SOL to act reasonably when relying on this
term and properly consider the matter before proposing a settlement.
Ls driver said in his statement that there had already been a collision and as he 
approached, he was then clipped by an oncoming vehicle, third-party one. He therefore 
believes there was already damage to the vehicle before he made contact with it. The 
statement from third-party one and two dont mention a prior incident. There was also no 
independent witnesses or CCTV evidence. I therefore think SOL was reasonable in saying 
that there is insufficient evidence to support Ls drivers version of events. 
I also note there is inconsistency in the information L and its driver gave during the 
investigation of this complaint. L told our service in an email correspondence on 9 August 
2021 that only the wing mirrors came into contact, but when our investigator spoke to Ls 
driver on the phone, he said the bumpers tapped. Also, in Ls complaint letter to our service 
it said there was no damage to its vehicle but, I note that the drivers statement said that 
repair for damage to Ls vehicle had been arranged. Im therefore satisfied that there must 
have been contact for damage to occur and I dont think the driver would have said the 
damage was repaired if it hadnt. 
I do agree with the investigator that in the circumstances SOL should have taken more care 
to gather accurate information from Ls driver in person. But having said that I dont think it 
would have changed the outcome of how liability would have been settled. I say this 
because the evidence that SOL had to consider was the two third parties versions of events 
and photographs of the damage on the third-partys vehicle. The two third parties gave a 
similar statement on what happened and that pointed to Ls driver losing control; of his 
vehicle which made contact with third-party one and as a direct result caused third-party one 
and two to also collide. Although Ls drivers statement is vague, I feel that it supports this 
too, but he does also say there was already an accident before he approached. However, 
there were no independent witnesses or CCTV footage of what had occurred. 
SOL said that due to the lack of evidence to demonstrate that Ls driver was not at fault and 
taking into account the legal costs and expenses for allowing the matter to proceed to 
litigation, they took the view that it would be difficult to demonstrate in court that Ls driver 
was not at any fault and therefore it settled the claim fairly. Under the circumstances I think it 
was reasonable for SOL to reach this conclusion. 
Im satisfied SOL acted in line with Ls policy terms and conditions and took into account the 
available evidence when they made their decision to settle the claim. I think this was a 
reasonable decision in the circumstances and I dont require SOL to change it.
L says that as result of SOL conceding liability for a claim which its driver had no 
involvement in, L was unable to obtain a more competitive quote at renewal or source an 
alternative provider. When an insurer is notified of a claim, they are required to record it on the Claims Underwriting Exchange Database (CUE). The CUE database must be an 
accurate reflection of whats happened, and Im satisfied that SOL have correctly reported 
this incident and they are not required to delete it from the CUE database. I appreciate there 
is a dispute regarding the amount of damage caused, but I would expect an insurer to record 
such a reported incident on the CUE database. Notwithstanding the inclusion of the word 
Claims in its name, the CUE is a database that includes incidents that havent resulted in 
claims too, so irrespective of the outcome the incident would still need to be recorded on the 
CUE database.
Overall, I think SOL could have been more thorough when investigating the claim to 
eliminate some of the discrepancies which resulted in delay when reviewing the claim. I 
therefore agree with the investigator that a compensation payment for the customer service 
element of this complaint is sufficient. I agree with our investigator that £150 as 
compensation is appropriate to recognise the inconvenient caused to L. 
Although L may disagree with SOLs interpretation of the evidence and their decision to 
settle the claim on a fault basis, based on the evidence SOL had, I dont think they exercised 
their discretion unfairly or unreasonably. I therefore dont require SOL to change the way its 
settled the claim or how theyve recorded it on the CUE database.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to pay L 
the sum of £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its handling of Ls claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman