DRN-3122526
The complaint
Mr J complains about the service at a branch of Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mr J wanted to make two payments of £63,500 from his Lloyds account. He called Lloyds on 
8 January 2021 to make these and was told he needed to visit a branch to do so  because 
of the limits on phone and online payments. He arranged to visit a branch of Lloyds the 
following week, on Monday 11 January 2021. One payment of £63,500 was made, but the 
second one was blocked by Lloyds fraud checks. Mr J left the branch and subsequently 
made the second payment by cheque.
Mr J complained. He said that he had called ahead so the delays in the branch werent 
acceptable. He said the payments should have been a quick and simple process, but the 
staff were incompetent and should be dismissed. He said he had to spend 30 minutes in the 
branch and this put him at risk of catching Covid-19. The social distancing measures in the 
branch were unsatisfactory as two cashiers sat next to one another. The whole episode took 
almost two and a half hours. He said his hourly rate was £250 an hour  and asked for 
compensation of £650.
Lloyds apologised for the long wait time in the branch, which was more than usual due to the 
measures they put in place due to the pandemic. And then, one of Mr Js payments was 
flagged by their security checks for additional verification. Lloyds said the checks were for 
customers protection. They said they wouldnt consider paying Mr J compensation based on 
his hourly rates. 
Mr J brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds acted reasonably. She said 
there had been a short wait until the first payment had been authorised by a manager. The 
second payment was blocked by Lloyds fraud checking system and the branch therefore 
needed to call the fraud department to clear it. Because Mr J then left the branch before they 
were completed, his account was then blocked as a further security measure.
Mr J didnt accept this and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. He said the 
investigators view was biased in favour of Lloyds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrated Mr J was because of what happened. Let me explain  having seen 
his correspondence with our investigator and listened to the calls with Lloyds  we are an 
informal, impartial, dispute resolution service. We dont take sides, nor are we here to punish 
the banks. We look at each complaint based on its individual circumstances.
Its an unfortunate fact that banking fraud is increasing, and all banks, including Lloyds, have 
security checks in place to prevent it. The checks on payments are in place to protect not 
only the bank, but also customers. So  Ive considered Mr Js complaint in the light of that.
Mr J called Lloyds on 8 January 2021  he wanted to make two payments. Ive listened to 
the call  the call hander explained that payments up to £10,000 could be done on the 
phone, and up to £25,000 online. Over that amount  he said Mr J would need to visit a 
branch, with photo ID and his cheque book. Mr J said he was a busy man; said he would 
visit the branch the following Monday and asked that the call handler advise the branch 
ahead of that. I heard Mr J say that if things didnt go as planned there will be hell to play.
When Mr J visited the branch, the first payment needed to be authorised by a manager  as 
part of Lloyds normal checks. And then, the second payment was blocked by Lloyds fraud 
system  as a possible fraudulent payment. Such checks flag some payments based on 
certain formula  which Lloyds (or any other bank) wont disclose  as theyre commercially 
sensitive. So, I cant say why the second payment was blocked, but it needed to be 
subjected to some further checks. Unfortunately, Mr J then left the branch  because he was 
busy and said he had other appointments to go to. But what this then meant was that  his 
account was then blocked because the security checks werent completed - because Lloyds 
system flagged a possible fraud on Mr Js account. I can appreciate that this must have been 
frustrating for him. But Lloyds checks were done in line with their normal checking 
processes, and so I cant say they did anything wrong.
Mr J says that because he called ahead of his visit to the branch  that the payments 
shouldve been made without any checks, and quickly. Lloyds say that their security 
processes dont work like that  that each payment is put though fraud checks regardless of 
any advanced arrangement  and I can see that. And so  Mr Js two payments were always 
going to go through that process and would therefore take some time. On his call on 8 
January 2021  I didnt hear Lloyds call handler commit to there being no checks, nor did he 
say the process would be quick  but equally, I appreciate that Mr J wanted things to happen 
quickly  but it was unlikely that would ever be the case, given what Ive described. 
I listened to Mr Js subsequent call with Lloyds on 15 January 2021. On it, and in his 
complaint -  Mr J has said that Lloyds staff were incompetent and should be dealt with 
severely.  Ive considered this. He says he was in the branch for 30 minutes trying to 
complete the payments. Lloyds have apologised for the inconvenience felt by Mr J  but also 
said that the branch staff were doing their jobs in line with the the necessary security checks. 
Lloyds have said that their processes were followed  and because that was the case, I have 
to say that Lloyds didnt make an error even though I accept that the wait time was 
frustrating for Mr J.
Mr J has also said that Lloyds Covid-19 measures werent adequate and he was put at risk 
of catching the virus. The guidance provided to banks by the Financial Conduct Authority 
during the pandemic was that branches should follow government guidance about the 
measures to be taken to protect customers and staff. In other words, social distancing 
measures. We asked Lloyds about what happened in the branch at the time  because Mr J 
said that two cashiers were sitting next to each other. They agreed that was the case, but 
there was a perspex screen between them  and this gave the necessary protection. So  I 
think we must accept that.
I can see that Mr J was very frustrated by what happened. He will therefore be disappointed 
by my decision, but Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman