DRN-3429046
The complaint
Mr P complains about a conditional sale agreement he has with Happy Customers Group 
Ltd trading as Pay As You Go Carpets (HCGL).
What happened
In September 2020 Mr P entered into a conditional sale agreement with HCGL. Under this 
agreement HCGL was meant to supply and fit flooring for Mr Ps home, it also supplied the 
finance for these goods and services. Mr P paid a deposit. There was a gap of several 
months between entering into the contract and when the work was scheduled to begin. In 
November 2020 in preparation for the work to begin HCGL contacted Mr P. He tells us it was 
at this point he was told, for the first time by HCGL, that he would have to arrange to pull up 
the pre-existing carpets so that the work could begin.
Mr P tells us he lives with his wife and they both have physical disabilities. He indicates that 
he had no idea that he would need to arrange for the preparatory work to be done. Rather he 
was under the impression that HCGL would do all this as part of the fitting. Moreover, there 
was no possibility of him or his wife being physically able to do the preparatory work. All in 
all, he suggests if he had known that he would have to take responsibility for this aspect of 
the work he would never have gone ahead. Further, he suggests the reason he did not know 
about this is because this was never mentioned until after he had entered into the contract. 
Mr P complained to HCGL and asked that it end the contract with nothing further owed by 
him and he wanted the return of his deposit.
HCGL did not agree it had done anything wrong. Rather it pointed to the terms and 
conditions of the conditional sale agreement which it said made it clear that all deposits were 
non-refundable.
Dissatisfied, Mr P came to our service.
When Mr Ps complaint was with us, HCGL provided further information. Specifically, it told 
us about a call it had with Mr P on 30 October 2020 when it rang him to book in the fitting. In 
this call it indicated Mr P was made aware the rooms had to be clear before the fitters were 
able to fit the product. It could not provide a copy of the call, but it said its employee would 
have followed a call script which mentions this fact. It also suggested the employee who 
made the sale would have followed this script too. It also mentioned that it was not until mid-
November in any event, when Mr Ps fitting date was changed that Mr P brought up the 
issue again.
Mr P responded to let us know that there had been no such conversation about this point on 
30 October. Further, his position remains that the salesperson did not mention the 
preparatory work in the meeting when the contract was made.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.
Mr P accepted our investigators recommendation, HCGL did not.  It repeated its previous 
stance and asked that an ombudsman review Mr Ps complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P suggests the conditional sale agreement was mispresented to him. Specifically, he 
suggests he was told nothing about the need for him to arrange for the preparatory work to 
be done before he made the contract.  HCGLs position is that it told Mr P all about this 
requirement prior to them entering into the contract. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
If the contract was misrepresented to Mr P by HCGL then I think it would be both fair and 
reasonable that HCGL should have to cancel the contract with nothing owed by Mr P and 
refund his deposit with interest.
In this context misrepresentation means a false statement of fact which can include a 
material omission that induced Mr P to enter into the contract. I think the key interaction was 
the sales meeting at Mr Ps home when the contract was entered into. That is when the 
terms of the agreement were most likely discussed, and that was the point at which Mr P 
was induced to enter into the contract. HCGL relies on the sales script it tells us that would 
have been followed by its employee during the sales meeting. I think as a starting point 
where there is a sales script, I would expect that an employee would follow it, in the normal 
course of events. However, we also have Mr Ps first-hand account of what was said, and we 
have no such information from the employee although I dont see why HCGL could not have 
supplied this. I find Mr Ps account of the day more persuasive than HCGLs submission. 
In addition, I have not seen anything in the contract that indicates Mr P would have to do the 
preparatory work because that was not included in the fitting costs which are part of the 
contract.  
Moreover, I find it unlikely that Mr P given his own disabilities and those of his wife would 
have entered into a contract that could have meant that he and his wife had to do reasonably 
heavy manual labour. Nor do I find it likely that in the circumstances, he would have agreed 
to pay extra to get someone else to do the work given he wanted an all-in-one service.
Moreover, Mr P tells us he did not discuss the preparatory work in the call of 30 October. I 
think it is likely he would remember the contents of that call with accuracy. He has 
demonstrated he took a meticulous approach throughout. By contrast, we have no copy of 
the call of 30 October where HCGL tells us its employee would have followed the script and 
mentioned the preparatory work and who would have to do it. It is not clear why that call 
recording was not retained by HCGL given that it knew less than a month later that Mr P was 
disputing this aspect of the contract. This call was made after the contract was agreed so 
anything that was said then cannot be said to have induced the contract. But I take HCGLs 
point if the preparatory work was mentioned in this call and Mr P did not query it, that would 
go towards showing he knew already he had to do this work. But, on balance, for the 
reasons I have given, I am not satisfied that this point was discussed then. 
It seems to me that it was only in November which is when both parties agree that Mr P was 
told about the need for him to arrange the preparatory work that Mr P was most likely made 
aware of his obligation under the contract. I find it significant that as soon as Mr P was told this in November he complained. This is consistent with what he suggests  i.e. that this was 
the first time he heard about this.
For all of these individual reasons I am satisfied that the contract was misrepresented to Mr 
P. It follows I find the contract should be cancelled and his deposit refunded with interest.
Further, I find it likely that Mr P was caused distress and inconvenience due to this 
misrepresentation. I find that £100 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate Mr P for 
this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Happy Customers Group Ltd trading as Pay As You Go Carpets 
must.
Cancel the contract with nothing owed by Mr P and it must stop trying to pursue him 
under the contract.
Refund Mr Ps deposit. It must add interest to the refund at the rate of 8% simple per 
year. The interest to run from the date the deposit was paid until the date of 
settlement.
Contact the credit reference agencies and ask them to remove any information it or 
its agents have asked them to register on Mr Ps credit file about the contract.
Pay Mr P £100 for distress and inconvenience.
It must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £100 from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman