DRN-1285109
The complaint
Mr H complains that he wasnt told by Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) that his Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) had been broken, causing a default to be registered on his 
credit file. 
What happened
In March 2016, after falling into financial difficulties Mr H entered into an IVA with multiple 
creditors. At this time, Barclays wrote to Mr H confirming his accounts had been included in 
the IVA and issued a termination notice. In September 2018, due to payments being missed, 
Mr Hs IVA was broken, and an entry was placed on the accounts affected. But it wasnt until 
Mr H questioned the default in 2019 that he was made aware of what had happened. Mr H 
thought the default was in relation to a separate account, one he had already agreed a 
settlement on. 
Mr H complained that he was never told about the missed payments or that the IVA had 
been broken. Barclays IVA team explained they wouldnt have issued correspondence 
saying the IVA had been broken, but that they did place an entry on Mr Hs account after 
speaking with the Insolvency Practitioner.
They explained the Insolvency Practitioner should have made Mr H aware of the situation 
and that they should be responsible for telling Mr H why payments were missed. Mr H is 
unhappy as hes said the Insolvency Practitioner never listed the two accounts in the IVA. 
Barclays explained that termination notices were issued, and that Mr H would need to 
contact the Insolvency Practitioner to complain further. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and was of the opinion that Barclays had acted 
correctly. She explained that Barclays have an obligation to report accurate information to 
credit reference agencies, and that theyd followed their processes correctly in acting on the 
information received by the Insolvency Practitioner. 
Mr H remained unhappy. He provided recordings of conversations hed had with Barclays, 
however after listening to these, the investigator remained of the same opinion. Because of 
this, Mr H has asked for a final decision to be made on his complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone goes into an IVA, their bank will issue a termination notice advising the 
customer that if they dont bring their account back into credit then the account will be closed 
as part of the IVA. Even though the account will be closed, the outstanding debt will still 
remain payable. In 2018, Mr Hs IVA was broken as payments were missed, and Barclays were notified by 
way of an external report. At that stage, Barclays had a responsibility to record the 
information against Mr Hs account and to notify credit reference agencies, but not to notify 
Mr H of the broken IVA. This would be for the Insolvency Practitioner to do. 
Mr H is unhappy that his debt was reinstated, as the account had been closed once the IVA 
was started. But, to explain, should an IVA fail, the money is still owed even if the account 
has been closed. So the creditors still have the right to pursue Mr H for the outstanding 
amount. 
Mr H is also unhappy he wasnt given any notice that a default was due to be applied on his 
credit file. However, the termination letter sent to Mr H in 2016 stated:
''If you do not settle the balance on your account the Bank may transfer the debt to one of its 
recovery units or agents with a view to taking further action. Additionally, it's the Bank 
intention to register details of the account with credit reference agencies. This may seriously 
affect your ability to obtain credit.''
So Im satisfied Mr H was made aware of what could happen should his debts not be settled. 
Ive listened to the conversation Mr H recorded where he spoke to an advisor at Barclays. I 
can see why some confusion may have been caused here as the advisor explains that the 
IVA was set up in 2016, broken in 2018, but that Barclays never received any payments. 
Having looked through the file, it seems as though there were 17 creditors in Mr Hs IVA, 
meaning that some received payment, but some didnt, including Barclays. 
In any event, Barclays has explained that due to the time that has passed, the default in 
relation to Mr Hs loan is no longer reporting, and the default for his current account is now 
showing as satisfied on his credit file. This is because they have written off the debt on      
 Mr Hs defaulted account under a separate complaint. 
Because of the above, Im satisfied Barclays have acted correctly and followed the correct 
process. So I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman