DRN-2648203
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy in 2000 by phone to protect their existing mortgage 
repayments. The policy gave them cover against unemployment. They paid a monthly
amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how Santander sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Mr and Mrs C say they dealt with Abbey National so how could Santander respond and 
know what happened at the time. As Santander bought Abbey National in 2004, it has taken 
responsibility for this sale and therefore this complaint, but it has responded based on the 
sales processes and documentation Abbey National had in place at the time of the sale. For 
simplicity I will refer to Santander throughout my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the PPI was optional, and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs C say their original mortgage was sold with the PPI cover, it 
was a condition of their mortgage. To clarify, Santander said in its final response letter that it 
was looking at this separately, and Mr C said in his response to the adjudicators view that 
the bank was still investigating this. This complaint looks solely at the sale of the policy that 
the bank has evidenced was in force from April 2000 to September 2002. It has provided a 
screenshot of its records showing a policy start date of 17/4/2000 and an end date of 
3/9/2002.  
Santanders records show Mr and Mrs C took out this PPI policy as a standalone product in 
2000 when their mortgage had already been in place for several years. It says they didnt 
take out any further borrowing at the time they took out PPI in 2000. I can see they 
transferred their mortgage to a different product in 2003, this was after this PPI policy had 
ended in 2002. So as their mortgage was already in place, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs 
C would have known the PPI was a separate, optional product. 
Santander says Mr and Mrs C would have needed to complete and sign a PPI application 
and a direct debit mandate for the PPI to be set up. It cant provide their PPI form or direct 
debit mandate and it has no call recording. But thats not unreasonable or surprising given 
how long ago the sale was. Based on what we know about this kind of sale, it seems likely 
that the script the sales advisor wouldve used would have prompted them to explain that Mr 
and Mrs C had a choice about taking the policy out. And in this case, theres not enough 
information to suggest something different might have happened. The fact they only took 
unemployment cover - not the much more common package of accident, sickness and 
unemployment - suggests there was discussion between the parties, and they understood 
they had options. The benefit was split 75:25 between Mr and Mrs C which I think again 
shows they were most likely engaged in the sales process and made specific choices to suit 
their circumstances.
I have considered Mr and Mrs Cs comments carefully, and I note they say a phone call 
never took place. I dont doubt theyve shared their honest recollections, but I also have to 
take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they remember.    
So, on balance, I think its most likely Santander made it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the PPI 
was optional, and they agreed to take it out.
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to make sure it was right 
for them. Based on what I know of their circumstances at the time I think it was suitable. I'll 
explain why.
They were eligible for the cover. And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that would 
make it difficult for them to claim  for example, the type of employment contract they had 
when the PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So they wouldnt have been 
affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
The PPI gave them up to 12 months' redundancy cover. This would have allowed them to 
protect any lump sum redundancy payment they received from their employers, giving 
increased financial stability at an already difficult time. Mr and Mrs C said they had savings 
at that time worth six to 12 months salary, but the PPI wouldve allowed them to use any 
savings to cover other living costs whilst out of work  or to keep them intact for their future 
needs. Mr and Mrs C were protecting a long-term debt secured on their home. Given the 
serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, overall, I think the policy would have 
been useful if Mr and/or Mrs C lost their job(s).
And Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time
of the sale. Its possible it didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same
reasons I find the policy was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve changed their
decision. I say this as Mr and Mrs C dont appear to have been affected by any of main 
exclusions or limitations, and the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and 
apparently affordable.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs C lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman