DRN-2062238
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly declined their claim to 
repair a cracked pipe under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C noticed a leak in their bathroom and initially made a claim under their home 
emergency policy. The contractor (Contractor M) said the leak was coming from the clay 
sewage stack but was unable to complete a temporary repair. Mr and Mrs C contacted esure 
to claim under the Underground Services section of their policy to have a pipe repaired.
esure sent out an engineer (Contractor A) to inspect the damage. Following an inspection 
and CCTV survey of the plumbing, they said there were no significant defects to the below 
ground system. And the escape of water was from overground pipe work, where the toilet 
pan connector met the soil vent pipe. esure declined the claim but said it would accept the 
claim as an escape of water. However, this wouldnt lead to the cracked pipe being repaired. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this and raised a complaint to esure. They said 
Contractor M had shown there was an issue with the underground waste pipe which was 
cracked. Mr and Mrs C provided esure with videos and CCTV pictures of Contractor Ms 
investigations. 
Contractor A reviewed the information and noted a crack in the clay pipework on the outside 
but said the crack wasnt apparent on the inside of the pipework and so wasnt contributing 
to the leak. Mr and Mrs C sent more videos to show the water leaking from the crack in the 
pipe. esure then said as the pipe was visible above ground from within the boxed-in work 
concealing the pipe work and in the subfloor of the bathroom area, the issue was above 
ground and not covered as accidental damage to underground services. Mr and Mrs C were 
unhappy and referred a complaint to our service.
An investigator was persuaded the evidence from esures experts indicated the problem had 
occurred overground, and not with the underground pipes. So, she said esure had been fair 
to decline the claim under the underground services section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with wat the investigator and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs policy covers them for damage caused to their home by a number of insured 
events, which include Escape of water / burst pipes. And theres also cover for 
Underground Services. Theres no dispute that esure will cover the claim under the escape 
of water section, but this section limits cover and will not cover repair to the damaged pipe.
So, Ive looked at the terms of the Underground Services section, which says:
We will pay for the cost of repairing underground pipesproviding services to and from 
Your House, which You are legally responsible for, and which break accidentally.
From what I can see, the crux of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is whether esure need to fix the 
damaged pipe. esures main argument is two-fold; the damaged pipe is above ground and 
the theres no accidental damage. Under the policy terms, esure would only be responsible 
for repairing the damaged pipe if it falls into the underground services section of the policy. 
So, it would need to be an underground pipe, and which had broken accidentally.
Ive looked carefully at the photographs and videos provided and whats apparent is that a 
clay pipe has a noticeable crack and is leaking. The crack can be seen on a section of the 
pipe, which is above ground. I accept it is below bathroom floor level in a void but its clearly 
above the ground. 
On this basis Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs Cs claim is covered under this section of the 
policy. But I have thought carefully about Mr Cs point about where the demarcation is 
between whats classed as underground and overground. Mr Cs point is that as the clay 
pipe (where the crack is) disappears into the ground and takes sewage away from the home 
underground, its an underground service. 
Ive kept in mind that insurance contracts should be interpreted in the same way as other 
contracts. The word underground isnt defined in the policy and so Ive thought about this 
objectively and in a way that takes into account the insurance contract as a whole. I think 
underground denotes below ground level and all the information shows the pipe is above 
ground. But even if Mr C is correct, for esure to be liable to repair the pipe the damage must 
be accidental. That means, under the policy, the damage must be a direct result of a single, 
unexpected and unintended event, and which is not a result of wear and tear.
Theres no evidence that suggests how the crack occurred, and nothing that supports the 
damage being accidental. The damage is above ground and so, based on everything Ive 
seen, Im satisfied esure acted in line with the policy and its offer to consider the claim under 
the escape of water section is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman