DRN-3121456
The complaint
Mr P says Zopa Limited arranged a loan for him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr P took out a 36-month loan through Zopa for £1,000 in June 2019. The monthly 
repayment was £36.99 and the total repayable was £1,331.64. 
Mr P says the loan caused him financial hardship and should not have been given. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He said Zopas checks were 
proportionate and it made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. 
Mr P disagreed saying we have upheld another of his lending complaints from around the 
same time so this must be wrong. His finances were out of control at the time.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ps complaint.
These are:
 
- Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to meet his obligations under the P2P (peer-to-peer) agreement in a 
sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair decision? If not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr P wouldve been able to do so?
- Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Zopa didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr P and that
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P would be
able to meet his obligations under the P2P agreement in a sustainable way?
The rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Zopa brought about this
P2P agreement with Mr P required it to carry out a proportionate assessment of whether
he could afford to make his repayments. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Zopa had to think about whether repaying the
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr P. In practice this
meant that Zopa had to ensure that making the payments to these loans wouldnt cause
Mr P undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough
for Zopa to simply think about the likelihood of Mr P making payments, it had to consider
the impact of loan repayments on Mr P.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and 
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an
extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Zopas checks reasonable and proportionate?
Zopa has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr P before
arranging this loan. It checked his declared income using an income verification tool. It also 
carried out credit check to understand Mr Ps existing credit commitments and credit history. 
It asked about the purpose of the loan which Mr P said was home improvements. From 
these checks combined Zopa concluded the loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr P.
Given this was Mr Ps first application through Zopa, the value of the loan, and the low 
proportion of his monthly income needed to make the repayments, I think the checks were 
reasonable and proportionate. And based on the information it gathered I think Zopa made a 
fair lending decision. Ill explain why.
Zopas checks showed Mr Ps monthly net income was around £1900, his rent/mortgage 
was £300 a month and he was currently spending around £237.55 on his existing credit 
commitments, assuming he made the minimum payment on his credit card. I note Zopa used 
a higher figure of £409 as part of its assessment based, it seems, on adjustments made by 
its underwriters. His credit file showed he was up-to-date with all his repayments and there was no adverse 
data  such delinquent or defaulted accounts. Whilst he had taken out payday loans 
previously, the credit check showed three such settled loans and in early 2017, so I dont 
think they needed to concern Zopa. 
So, in the round, I think it was reasonable for Zopa to conclude Mr P would be able to 
sustainably afford the £36.99 monthly repayment.
I can see from the bank statements Mr P provided that he was spending a significant amount 
of his income on gambling transactions. He points to this as evidence that his financial 
situation was out of control. 
But given the terms of this loan, and what its initial checks showed, I dont think it would 
have been proportionate for Zopa to have carried out the level of financial review that would 
have been needed for it to become aware of this. I would also point out that what Zopa 
would see from its credit check might differ from what Mr P would see on his credit file  this 
can be due to timing differences or the fact not all lenders reports to all the credit reference 
agencies. I can only fairly expect Zopa to react to the information in the credit check it 
completed.
Overall, from the checks it carried out, which were reasonable and proportionate, I think it 
made a fair lending decision.
Mr P also challenged why this complaint would not be upheld when we have upheld another 
taken out at a similar time.  I can only comment here on the merits of this complaint: each 
decision is reached based on the individual circumstances of the case.  But I note the other 
loan he references was taken out some months later in November 2019 and it seems his 
overall indebtedness and monthly credit commitments had increased by then.
I have found no evidence Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
My final decision
It follows I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman