DRN-2772991
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs F complain about the settlement AXA Insurance UK Plc has offered them for a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy.
 What happened
In October 2019, Mr C and Mrs F discovered a water leak at their home which had caused 
substantial damage to some of their property and some contents. They made a claim on 
their home insurance policy for the costs of putting right the damage.
AXA appointed a surveyor which Ill call B to inspect Mr C and Mrs Fs home. B agreed the 
claim was valid and prepared a scope of the works it thought needed to be done to put right 
the damage. Its original scope cost was around £2950. However, Mr C and Mrs Fs 
contractors quoted a price of around £17,000 for the necessary repair works. So AXA asked 
another one of its contractors, which Ill call O to draw up its own scope of works. Os scope 
was for around £8930. AXA offered Mr C and Mrs F the option to use its own contractors to 
carry out the repairs. But Mr C and Mrs F wanted to use their own builders to do the work. 
So AXA offered Mr C and Mrs F a cash settlement of £8585.54 for the building works (net of 
the applicable policy excess). It also paid them around £950 for contents which were 
damaged by the water leak. However, AXA acknowledged it hadnt handled the claim as well 
as it couldve done and it paid them £200 compensation in recognition of this.
Mr C and Mrs F werent happy with AXAs offer, given the difference between its offer and 
their contractors quote and they asked us to look into their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think that Mr C and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. She felt the 
policy terms made it clear that if AXA preferred to use its repair network to carry out works, 
but a policyholder chose to use their own contractor; AXA would be limited to paying what it 
wouldve cost its contractor to do the repairs. She felt that AXA had offered to settle the 
claim in line with Os scope of works, which was in line with the policy terms. So she didnt 
think it needed to pay Mr C and Mrs F anything more. And she considered the compensation 
AXA had paid Mr C and Mrs F fairly recognised the trouble and upset its handling of the 
claim had caused them.
Mr C and Mrs F disagreed. They said theyd never seen a copy of the scope of works AXA 
had relied on  which the investigator was able to send them. So they felt theyd been left 
with no choice but to use their own contractor. They didnt think the scope included some 
necessary works  theyd considered their study ceiling needed to be removed; their 
bathroom had had to be fully re-tiled and a broken-backer board had had to be replaced, as 
well as refitting sanitary ware, mirrors etc. They also provided invoices showing that their 
study floor had been replaced and that theyd hired a toilet for their contractors. Finally, they 
queried whether their settlement had included VAT.
AXA considered the invoices Mr C and Mrs F provided. It explained that its settlement took 
into account the study floor and putting right a hole in the bathroom wall. It agreed to add an 
amount of £138.24 for the labour costs in refitting the bathroom units and mirror (a new offer 
of £9072.78 less the excess) and its since agreed to consider the toilet hire cost of £83.34. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXAs offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of Mr C and Mrs Fs contract, as this 
forms the basis of their contract with AXA. Ive looked closely at how AXA says it will settle 
claims. The policy says:
We may repair, reinstate or replace the damaged property. If we cannot replace or repair 
the property we may pay for the loss or damage in cash or cash alternative (including 
voucher and/or store cards).
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree to pay 
a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment will not exceed the amount we would 
have paid the preferred supplier.
I think the policy makes it clear that AXA can choose how it wishes to settle claims and that it 
may do so by repairing or replacing the damaged items, or if its unable to do so, it will pay a 
cash settlement. I also think the policy is clear that if a policyholder decides not to use AXAs 
preferred supplier; AXA will be entitled to limit the cash settlement it pays to the amount it 
wouldve paid its own contractor to carry out the works. This isnt an unusual clause and is a 
standard term in home insurance contracts.
In this case, AXA told us its preferred method of settlement was for its repair network to 
carry out the necessary works. Mr C and Mrs F opted to use their own contractor though. 
While I appreciate this was because they said they hadnt seen Bs (or Os) scope of works; I 
still think they had a choice about whether or not to use AXAs contractors to get the repairs 
done. As they chose to use their own contractor and receive a cash settlement, I think it was 
then fair for AXA to rely on the above policy term when it calculated the settlement they were 
due. 
AXA initially instructed B to assess the damage to Mr C and Mrs Fs home and to draw up a 
scope of works to cost the repairs. B calculated the repairs would cost around £2950. On the 
other hand, Mr C and Mrs Fs contractor quoted repair costs of around £17,000. Given the 
significant difference in the estimated costs of repair, I think it was reasonable and 
appropriate for AXA to appoint O to inspect the property and provide a quote. This allowed 
AXA to compare and contrast three different estimates of the work which needed to be done 
to put the damage right. This quote was for around £8934. 
B reviewed Os scope and noted that the replacement of the study floor hadnt been 
included. However, as it considered some other suggested works had been included which 
shouldnt have been (such as replacing the bathroom floor which Mr C and Mrs F agree 
didnt need to be replaced), its told us it included the cost of replacing the damaged study 
floor and repairing the hole in the bathroom when offering the settlement as a whole. AXAs 
notes reflect that this work was included as part of the settlement. I hope it reassures Mr C 
and Mrs F to know that their study flooring has been considered as part of the overall claim.
AXA now acknowledges that it didnt include the costs of £138.24 for the labour costs 
involved in refitting the mirror and units in the bathroom as part of the works and has 
increased its offer to include this. Its also now agreed to consider the toilet hire charges, which it says wouldnt usually be included as part of a claim. I think that this agreement to 
consider the cost is more than fair in the circumstances.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think AXA has calculated its offer of settlement fairly and 
in line with the overall costs its experts calculated it would cost it to get the necessary repairs 
done. So Im satisfied that its offered to settle the claim in line with its policy terms. I 
appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C and Mrs F, given the 
difference between their contractors costs and AXAs offer, but I havent seen enough 
evidence to suggest the offer hasnt been reached fairly, or based on the expert opinions of 
AXAs contractors. Im also persuaded that the costs of replacing the study floor and fixing 
the hole in the wall have been considered.
Mr C and Mrs F are concerned that theyll be charged another excess, on top of whats been 
deducted. I would only expect AXA to deduct one excess for their buildings claim. Theyve 
also asked whether VAT has been included in the settlement. AXAs notes seem to indicate 
that it doesnt think Mr C and Mrs Fs contractor is VAT registered and so it hasnt included 
this in the settlement. (It does appear its taken VAT into account for the builder which 
replaced the study floor.) Its open to Mr C and Mrs F to provide further information to AXA 
about their contractors (and their) VAT position if they consider VAT costs shouldve been 
included.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that AXAs offer of settlement is fair 
and reasonable.
If it hasnt already done so, I now direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr C and Mrs F 
£9072.78 (less the excess if applicable and less any amounts its already paid) and to 
consider their claim for the costs of the toilet hire.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman