DRN-3838152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim they made on 
their home insurance policy.
Ive mainly referred to Mr A below, as hes acted as the lead correspondent throughout the 
complaint. Aviva delegated certain aspects of its claims handling to an agent. Where I feel 
its necessary to refer to the agent specifically, Ive referred to it as Company S. 
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision. Ive set that out below in italics. Ill then go on to 
summarise the responses I received under the heading responses to my provisional 
decision beginning on page 18 and set out my findings beginning on page 22.
What happened
A previous Ombudsman issued a provisional decision setting out the background, and his 
findings, in detail. Both parties responded and many aspects of this complaint have now 
been agreed upon. So Ill summarise the key points and then go on to consider what 
remains in dispute in more detail.
In October 2018, Mr A got in touch with Aviva to make a claim for damage to his 
garage. Aviva agreed for him to obtain a surveyors report. Mr A understood this to 
mean Aviva would settle the claim based on the surveyors report. He said Aviva 
didnt issue a reservation of rights notice or suggest its own agents would need to 
inspect the damage before a claim could be accepted.
Mr As surveyor thought the damage was caused by subsidence. They 
recommended dismantling and rebuilding the garage on a new foundation and gave 
an estimate for the cost of the work. Aviva paid Mr A for the surveyors report.
Aviva asked to visit the property. It intended to carry out its own investigations to 
decide for itself if the damage was caused by subsidence. And, if so, what it would 
cost its own contractors to put things right.
Aviva accepted it shouldnt have told Mr A he could get his own report and paid £400 
compensation for the delay that had been caused as a result of its mistake.
Mr A thought Aviva should accept the claim and didnt agree to its broad request to 
visit. But he was prepared for Aviva to visit with the specific and limited purpose of 
calculating the cost to Aviva of the work the surveyor had recommended.
The surveyor also recommended Mr A instruct an arboriculturalist, which he did. 
They agreed the damage was caused by subsidence and said it was the result of 
clay shrinkage due to a nearby tree. They recommended the tree be removed, which 
Mr A says has been done. Aviva paid Mr A for the arboricultural report.
Mr A complained to Aviva. Amongst other things, he said Aviva had breached rules 
from the regulators Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), Principles 
for Business (PRIN) and Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) standards. He 
maintained Aviva should accept the claim.
Aviva and Company S mentioned a number of reasons why they might decline the 
claim. Mr A explained why he disagreed. By early 2020, the Covid-19 pandemic 
meant a visit couldnt be carried out. Company S suggested a desktop review, which 
Mr A accepted. It then withdrew the offer and insisted a physical visit was required.
Mr A provided three quotations for the work recommended by the surveyor and 
asked Aviva to settle the claim by cash payment. Aviva didnt agree. Mr A referred 
his complaint to this Service. An Ombudsman issued a provisional decision. I have 
summarised what I consider to be the key findings below:
oThe policy covers damage caused by subsidence. Two suitably qualified and 
experienced professionals both thought the damage was caused by 
subsidence. So Mr A had shown the damage was covered by the policy.
oAviva hadnt shown a policy exclusion applied or a general condition had 
been breached, so it couldnt decline the claim.
oAviva can require assistance from Mr A. This extends beyond showing the 
damage was caused by subsidence and could include site access.
oAviva can choose to settle claims by replacing, reinstating, repairing or 
payment. It would be difficult for Aviva to make an informed choice without 
carrying out a site visit. And a visit is in line with good industry practice.
oBearing in mind the principles of waiver and estoppel, it wouldnt treat Mr A 
unfairly for Aviva to carry out a visit before arranging settlement.
oThe scope of a site visit would be limited to deciding how to settle the claim. 
The purpose would be to assess whether the appropriate remedy is to 
reinstate or repair  and the corresponding cost  in order to indemnify Mr A.
oAviva should appoint an independent engineer in place of its agent.
oAviva acted unfairly by refusing to accept that an insured event had taken 
place until a site visit had been carried out. It caused a loss of expectation by 
giving the impression the claim would be settled according to the surveyors 
report  and then asking to visit. It knew Mr and Mrs A werent in good health.
oCompany S was dismissive and adversarial when it refused to progress the 
claim without a site visit. And requesting a visit of such broad scope was 
unreasonable. Company S offered a desktop review, set a very short deadline 
to provide information, and then withdrew the offer without good reason.
oEven if Aviva had accepted the claim earlier, its likely Mr A would only ever 
have been prepared to facilitate a visit to work out the cost of implementing 
his surveyors recommendations.
oAviva should pay £500 compensation, in addition to the £400 paid earlier, to 
reflect the impact it and Company S had on Mr and Mrs A.The previous Ombudsman made the following award and directions in his provisional 
decision:
Aviva must accept Mr and Mrs As claim.
Aviva must find three suitably qualified independent engineers and give a list to 
Mr A. All three engineers must have confirmed theyre independent.
Mr A should confirm to Aviva which one from this list he would agree to being 
appointed.
The engineer is to be appointed as a single joint expert to prepare a report on 
what settlement options are open to Aviva (in order to put Mr A back in the 
position he was in immediately before the subsidence damage occurred), 
including by visiting Mr As property.
In conjunction with the report, a fully scoped and costed schedule of works will be 
prepared by the engineer, or a contractor overseen by the engineer.
When instructing the engineer, Aviva must send them copies of the policy 
document from the insured period in which the subsidence damage first occurred, 
any photographs it has received from Mr A, the two expert reports commissioned 
by Mr A, the NHBRC certificate, the three quotations obtained by Mr A and a 
copy of the previous Ombudsmans decision.
A copy of the instructions must be sent to Mr A at the same time. He should be 
given one opportunity to send the engineer anything else hed like considered.
The engineer will report to both parties with a draft copy of their report.
The parties will then have one opportunity to put questions to the independent 
engineer. After this has happened, the engineer will issue their final report to both 
parties.
Aviva must act on that report when deciding how the claim should be settled and 
will be bound by it, subject to the principle of indemnity, and any policy excesses 
or limits that may apply.
If Aviva chooses to settle the claim by repair or reinstatement, then this work 
should be overseen by the engineer.
The cost of the independent engineer is to be met in full by Aviva.
Aviva must also pay Mr and Mrs A an additional £500 compensation. 
All of the above steps must be carried out in accordance with Avivas duties 
under ICOBS 8, including to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Responses to the previous Ombudsmans provisional decision
Mr As first responseMr A provided extensive comments about the provisional decision. Ive read everything hes 
said and thought carefully about the points hes made. The following is a brief summary of 
what I consider to be the key points Mr A raised in his first response. He said:
He agreed Aviva should accept the claim without seeking to apply any exclusion.
It would be fair and reasonable for the claim to be settled based on his three 
quotations  and theres no reasonable requirement for Aviva to visit.
If Aviva has preferential rates with its contractors, it could make an adjustment for 
that and make a settlement offer based on the quotations.
Aviva didnt specify what information or how much detail should be included within 
the report or quotations. The policy doesnt specify this either. So it wouldnt be lawful 
or fair for Aviva to now rely on a supposed lack of information and detail to insist 
upon a visit to explore the settlement options.
Requiring a fully scoped and costed schedule of works to be produced to settle the 
claim would exceed the relevant legal standard and isnt necessary.
The quotations are sufficiently detailed for settlement and based on the work 
recommended by the surveyor. Theyre all consistent with each other and are 
sufficiently precise to meet the legal standard.
A highly experienced and appropriately qualified surveyor thought the garage should 
be dismantled and rebuilt on a new foundation. The surveyor took into account their 
knowledge of Building Regulations and the damage to the garage. So its clear that 
work along these lines is required to provide an effective and lasting solution.
Other information, including photos, has been provided to show the extent of 
damage. Aviva could have used that to consider the settlement options  but it hasnt 
done so.
Company S agreed to settle the claim by desktop review. But it then changed its 
position and said a physical site visit was necessary. Aviva should have settled the 
claim based on the agreement Company S made.
Aviva should have settled the claim by July 2020  and not doing so was a breach of 
FCA rules, including ICOBS.
If the complaint isnt settled based on the quotations, and instead the steps set out in 
the provisional decision are taken, Mr A had some additional points he wished to 
make:
oThe three engineers must be independent of Aviva and Company S.
oThey should also be members of RICS.
oThe selected engineer must provide both parties with their report and fully 
scoped and costed schedule of works.
oIf Aviva carries out the work, it must issue a Certificate of Structural Adequacy 
and a local authority Building Control completion certificate.
An additional £500 wasnt commensurate with the level of distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs A had been caused by Aviva and Company S. He 
suggested figures he thought were more proportionate to their circumstances and which they should each receive, based on different ways of considering 
compensation:
oAviva had offered £400 for around 4 months of delay, equivalent to £100 per 
month. Extending that over the subsequent 40 months made £4,000.
oPrevious Ombudsman decisions in the range £4,500 - £12,000 had been 
awarded in circumstances Mr A considers comparable to his.
oHaving spent an estimated 1,280 hours seeking fair recompense, at a 
minimum wage of £8.91 per hour, equated to over £11,400.
oAt a rate of £19 per hour, based on the amount allowed under Civil Procedure 
Rules, this equated to over £24,000.
oOverall, £7,702 would be fair and reasonable compensation for loss of 
expectation, distress, suffering, trouble and inconvenience.
Aviva should be held responsible for the entire delay since the claim began nearly 
four years ago. It didnt act in line with relevant FCA rules, it unfairly and unlawfully 
declined the claim, and that caused the delay.
The impact of the delay was made worse by the significant health risk posed by the 
damaged roofing sheets, which were thought to contain asbestos. Mr A has been 
undergoing medical investigations for a problem which may be related. And Mrs A 
suffers from a health condition impacted by stress.
Its not fair to say Mr A would always have refused to facilitate a site visit even if 
Aviva had accepted the claim sooner. Mr A agreed to such a visit when he 
understood its purpose was to explore the settlement options. The visit was only 
cancelled when Company S said it wanted to repeat site investigations.
Aviva and Company S adopted an unreasonably entrenched, dismissive, and 
adversarial position and neither engaged properly with the specific points of Mr As 
complaint. Had the claim been handled in line with the relevant rules, there would 
have been no need for Mr A to go to the lengths he has to argue his case. Whilst he 
has quoted numerous sources, including case law, rules, and previous Ombudsman 
decisions, it wouldnt be reasonable to require him to commence legal proceedings.
Neither Mr nor Mrs A have a background in law or insurance, so they have had to 
spend a great deal of time researching relevant information and bringing their case to 
this Service. They estimate nearly 1,300 hours. This has caused extreme 
inconvenience that an additional £500 compensation  making £900 in total  doesnt 
go far enough to put right.
Aviva should refund any additional amounts of annual premiums charged since 
March 2019 as a result of recording a subsidence claim.
Avivas response
Aviva agreed with the previous Ombudsmans decision. It said the claim couldnt proceed 
unless Mr A agreed for the independent engineer to attend. It also said the garage had 
deteriorated significantly since the start of the claim  and that could have been prevented if 
Mr A had allowed a visit sooner. It thought the garage would have been repairable initially.It didnt agree to Mr As proposed resolution. It said it needed to decide what a fair schedule 
of works would be to put Mr A back in the position he was prior to the insured event.
Mr As second response
Mr A provided further comments after seeing Avivas response. Ive read the comments in 
full and thought about everything Mr A has said. Ill summarise the points I consider are most 
relevant without repeating any already made above:
Aviva hadnt shown the garage was repairable initially  or that it had suffered 
significant deterioration since. Aviva has waived and/or is estopped from relying on 
any right it may have had to repair the garage, aside from the recommendations 
made in the surveyors report.
At no point has Aviva offered to repair the garage. Nor has it previously argued the 
garage could be repaired. Its argument has focused on the supposed lack of detail in 
the surveyors report and other quotations.
The policy wording limited Aviva to capping the claim value at its own costs only 
when settling by repair or replacement. It doesnt apply to reinstatement.
Having considered the arguments raised by both parties, there appear to me to be three 
main points of dispute which can be grouped under the headings:  
1.) Claim acceptance 
2.) Claim settlement 
3.) Compensation
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within Mr As list of complaint points, and throughout his submissions, he has referred to 
legal principles and case law. Whilst the relevant law is one of the things I must think about 
when considering whats fair and reasonable, it isnt the only thing. DISP 3.6.4R says:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the
relevant time.
As was set out in R(Williams) v Financial Ombudsman Service Limited by the judge in that 
case: A party to a complaint must know why he has won, or perhaps more importantly why 
he has lost, in clear and comprehensible terms. That is the requirement, but that is the only 
requirement and it can be met in a reasonably flexible way.Its important to remember that the Ombudsman is dealing with complaints, and not legal 
causes of action (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service 
Limited). The statutory function of our scheme is to resolve complaints quickly and with 
minimum formality, as per s.225(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Further, the courts have agreed that it is axiomatic, therefore, that any ombudsmans 
decision letter should be read as a whole and in a common sense, and certainly not in a 
legalistic, way (R (Garrison Investment Analysis) v Financial Ombudsman Service Limited). 
As such, I dont intend to provide a legalistic commentary on Mr As arguments. Ill engage 
with them to the extent required to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion.
In particular, Ive kept in mind the provisions of ICOBS 8.1.1R. which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);
and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Ill set out my findings in line with the three main points of dispute.
Claim acceptance
Aviva has agreed to accept the claim. Mr A has also agreed with this point.
That means both parties agree the claim should now be accepted by Aviva  and it cant 
seek to rely on a policy exclusion to later decline the claim.
As an agreement has been reached on this point, Im satisfied its resolved and I dont need 
to go into it further detail about it.
The next step is to consider how the claim should be settled.
Claim settlement
Mr A put forward a suggestion for settling the claim based on his three quotations, including 
an adjustment to reflect Avivas preferential contractor rates if it wished.
Aviva disagreed and maintained it should have the option to consider the appropriate work, 
and corresponding cost, to indemnify Mr A. It also indicated it wanted to take into account 
any deterioration of the garage over time in the settlement.
The first question for me is whether I consider Aviva should settle the claim as Mr A has 
suggested. If not, Ill go on to consider how it should be settled.
Should the claim be settled as Mr A suggested?
The buildings section of the policy sets out how claims are settled. It says:
Settling ClaimsWe can choose to settle your claim by
oReplacing
oReinstating
oRepairing
oPayment
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent 
available in the current market.
If we can repair or replace property but agree to make a cash or voucher settlement 
we will only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it.
Im satisfied the policy is clear that Aviva can choose the method of claim settlement. To 
treat Mr A fairly and reasonably, I consider it should also ensure that whatever method it 
chooses fairly indemnifies Mr A, bearing in mind any repair or reinstatement must provide a 
lasting and effective solution to the subsidence damage.
In order for Aviva to consider which options are available to fulfil those requirements, it will 
need to understand which settlement methods are appropriate in the circumstances of this 
particular claim  and what the corresponding costs involved are.
Im satisfied its reasonable for Aviva to seek this information. Once it knows these things, it 
will be in a fully informed position to choose an appropriate method of claim settlement. And 
if, for example, it chooses to repair and Mr A would prefer a cash payment, Aviva will know 
what it would cost it to repair.
Mr A considers Aviva is already in a position to make an informed choice with sufficient 
information  and has been for some time.
Hes provided information from a surveyor. They recommended taking the garage down and 
rebuilding it on a new foundation, which amounts to reinstatement. Mr A has also provided 
quotations in line with that recommendation, photos of the damage, and noted the comments 
of a local building control officer about the work which may be required.
Whilst the surveyor was clear they thought that recommendation was the most appropriate 
course of action, they didnt rule out the possibility there may be other options. The surveyor 
didnt explain why their recommendation was the only appropriate course of action or 
contemplate the possibility of other options. Whilst I acknowledge Mr A says he shared a 
copy of the policy wording with the surveyor, the report doesnt mention the policy or the 
cover it provides. So its not clear to me that the recommendation was made with the policy 
and the settling claims term in mind. And even if Aviva agreed the recommendation was the 
only feasible solution, it may be possible to reinstate the garage at a lower cost than the 
quotations Mr A has provided. So Im not satisfied Aviva already has enough information to 
make an informed choice about how to settle the claim fairly. 
In order to do this Aviva would need to visit the property and inspect the garage. Whilst 
there, it could create a fully scoped and costed schedule of works to reflect the work 
necessary to fulfil the requirements above.
Mr A has pointed out that the policy doesnt stipulate a visit is required in order to establish 
what it would cost Aviva to repair damage. I agree that its not specified. And it might be that 
in some cases Aviva doesnt consider a visit is necessary to do that. But it thinks thats 
necessary here.
The general conditions section of the policy, says in sub-section 4. Claims  your duties:You must:
b  provide all the information and help we need to settle your claim
This condition doesnt set a limit on what additional help may be required by Aviva to settle 
the claim. So Im satisfied this condition allows for a site visit.
Mr A has noted an information box at the end of the sub-section which says:
It is your responsibility to prove any loss and therefore we may ask you to provide 
receipts, valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards and any 
other relevant information, documents and assistance we may require to help with 
your claim.
I understand he considers this limits any requests from Aviva for assistance and information 
to that required to prove any loss. As the claim has been accepted, he considers hes 
fulfilled that requirement, and it wouldnt be fair for Aviva to request further help or 
information from him.
In my view, Mr As contractual duty to provide information and assistance under the policy is 
set out in general condition 4b and not in the information box. This box is separate from the 
general conditions and is coloured with an orange background. The policy says orange 
information boxes highlight information we want to particularly draw your attention to. 
Rather than forming part of the contract wording in their own right, these boxes merely 
highlight certain parts of the contract. Because of this, I consider the orange information box 
is non-contractual padding.
If Im wrong about that, and the orange box is part of the contract of insurance, Ive thought 
about what it means. Ive considered the principles of contractual interpretation, including 
what meaning the document would have conveyed to a reasonable person. Ive also thought 
about how the wording in the orange box may interact with other terms of the policy, such as 
general condition 4b and the settling claims term noted above.
4b doesnt limit Avivas right to request information and help it needs to settle the claim. And 
the settling claims term gives Aviva the right to choose how to settle the claim. Clearly that 
would require some assistance and information from the policyholder, which could include a 
site visit.
Whilst the orange information box initially refers to proving any loss, it also refers to 
providing any other relevant information, documents and assistance we may require to help 
with your claim. These are broad terms which I think indicate a wider scope than merely 
showing the damage has been caused by subsidence.
Bearing in mind the other policy terms, Im not satisfied the wording in the box would be 
understood by the reasonable person to mean the insurer only requires help and information 
to prove the loss  and nothing further. I consider the reasonable person would understand it 
to mean that a policyholder may be asked to provide information and assistance throughout 
the claim. That could include facilitating a site visit to help settle the claim.
Taking all of that into account, even if the orange box had contractual force, Im not satisfied 
it would prevent Aviva from requesting a site visit.
And even if that interpretation is wrong, I must take account of good industry practice and 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Its good industry practice for an insurer to request and carry out a visit at this stage of a 
subsidence claim. After accepting the claim and being satisfied subsidence movement has 
ceased, its very common for an insurer to inspect the damage and consider the most 
appropriate and cost-effective way of providing a lasting and effective repair. The outcome of 
an inspection is usually a fully scoped and costed schedule of works which accurately 
establishes the cost involved and can be used to settle the claim.
This is especially so in cases where the damage is likely to be higher value and/or where 
estimates are older, as the risk to both parties of relying on those estimates and reaching an 
inaccurate settlement is generally greater. Both of these points are relevant in Mr As claim, 
and in most claims of a similar value and age, an inspection along the lines Ive described is 
commonplace and beneficial to both parties.
For these reasons, Im satisfied it would reflect good industry practice and be fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to carry out a site visit to help settle this claim.
Mr A has also made reference to a policy term called the sum insured. It says:
If at the time of a loss the sum insured is too low we will not settle your claim on an 
as new basis and will reduce any payments to reflect wear and tear
He has suggested the term effectively means that if the sum insured isnt too low, Aviva will 
settle the claim as new and wont make any reductions. To settle it as new would be to 
dismantle and rebuild it, which is what the surveyor recommended.
In my view, this term only explains what happens if the sum insured is too low. It makes no 
comment on what might happen if the sum insured is sufficient. It doesnt reference the 
settling claims policy term, quoted above, which sets out the four methods of settlement 
and Avivas right to choose between them  or say that any of those methods become 
unavailable if the sum insured is sufficient. So Im not persuaded the sum insured policy 
term has the impact Mr A has suggested it does.
I'm satisfied the settling claims policy term is the key one when considering how Aviva is 
required to settle the claim. Ive explained above why Im satisfied this term gives Aviva the 
right to choose the method of settlement. And that means its entitled to explore which 
options are available and appropriate in the circumstances, together with the corresponding 
costs. Ive already explained above why Im satisfied it would reflect good industry practice 
and be fair and reasonable for Aviva to carry out a site visit to help settle this claim.
Mr A says the quotations hes provided are sufficiently precise to show the reasonable cost 
of the work. Hes cited case law which says a lack of precision as to the amount of quantum 
is not a bar to recovery. 
In the context of this claim, I understand that to mean providing imprecise estimates 
shouldnt prevent Mr A from receiving a settlement for the claim. Now that Aviva has 
accepted the claim, its not denying him a settlement. Its effectively asking to gather more 
precise information to provide an accurate settlement. In principle, that should ensure neither 
Aviva nor Mr A lose out. Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable approach to take and is in 
line with good industry practice.  
Part of the reason why Aviva hasnt offered to settle the claim based on Mr As quotations is 
because it says theyre not detailed enough. Mr A says he wasnt given instructions about 
how detailed they should be. And the policy doesnt stipulate any requirement about this.The quotations range from around £53,000 to £56,000 including VAT. Mr A says he asked 
the building firms to quote for, as far as possible, restoring the garage, like-for-like, and 
compliant with statutory requirements. But the quotations dont include a breakdown of the 
cost or set out how the new structure might compare with the existing one.
I think thats a significant sum of money and its reasonable for Aviva to seek more detail 
about what that cost represents before agreeing to settle the claim based on the quotations. 
It may ultimately conclude a similar figure is a reasonable amount to settle the claim for  but 
Im not persuaded it would be fair to deny Aviva the opportunity to consider whether the 
claim can fairly be settled for a lower amount. And it may find the claim should be settled for 
a greater amount, bearing in mind the quotations are over two years old and some building 
costs have risen significantly since then.
Aviva should have been clearer about what it expected to see in the quotations to avoid the 
situation Mr A is now faced with. If it needed more detail, including a full breakdown costs, it 
should have told Mr A that when it asked him to get quotations. But I dont think the 
proportionate remedy to that mistake is to say Aviva must settle the claim based on the 
quotations Mr A provided. Instead, Avivas clarity of instruction and the impact thats had on 
Mr A is something Ill take into account when considering what an appropriate amount of 
compensation would be.
Mr A says the legal principles of estoppel and waiver are relevant. His expectation was that 
once he had provided a report from his surveyor, which said the damage was caused by 
subsidence and recommended how to put it right, Aviva would settle the claim according to 
the report. Because of that and Avivas subsequent handling of the claim, including reneging 
on the offer to settle by desktop review, Mr A says Aviva has waived any right to, or is 
estopped from, requiring a site visit to settle the claim. 
Ive noted the legal arguments Mr A has put forward, including that he doesnt necessarily 
need to show detriment. Ive also thought about whether allowing Aviva a site visit to settle 
the claim would result in Mr A being treated unfairly or unreasonably. I remind myself that my 
role here is to determine what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So, the legal position is a relevant consideration but not necessarily the determinative one.
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied a visit to consider the settlement options and 
corresponding costs is in line with good industry practice. Its a common part of the claim 
journey for building damage, particularly with higher value claims such as Mr As. A key 
purpose of such a visit is to ensure Mr A is appropriately and fairly indemnified  whether 
thats by Aviva carrying out the work or by paying cash.
The quotations are now over two years old and the cost of carrying out building work has 
increased significantly since then. A visit will allow for the creation of a schedule of work 
costed at current rates. That will ensure an accurate and fair valuation if Mr A were to take a 
cash settlement. So a visit may be beneficial to Mr A.
Im not satisfied a visit would treat Mr A unfairly or unreasonably as it would ensure the claim 
is settled fairly  and hes fairly indemnified.
Mr A noted Company S had offered to carry out a desktop review  only to withdraw this 
offer after Mr A agreed to it. He says Aviva was bound to settle the claim on this basis.
Ill comment more on the non-financial impact this had on Mr and Mrs A in the compensation 
section later in this decision. But in relation to the claim settlement, Im not persuaded the 
offer to carry out a desktop review now prevents Aviva from settling the claim after a site 
visit. For the reasons given above, a physical site visit is allowed by the policy, is in line with good industry practice and is, in my view, a fair and reasonable way to settle this claim. I 
dont think changing from a virtual to a physical assessment to establish how to settle the 
claim is an unreasonable thing to do  and I dont think it treats Mr A unfairly in relation to the 
claim settlement as a physical visit is likely to be more accurate.
Overall, taking everything into account, including the principles of waiver and estoppel, Im 
not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to settle the claim based on Mr As 
quotations alone. Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to settle the claim 
following a visit and after exploring the options on how to indemnify Mr A fairly. That visit 
would be for the specific and limited purpose of deciding how to settle the claim and how to 
fairly indemnify Mr A.
How should the claim be settled?
The previous Ombudsmans provisional decision set out several steps Aviva must take in 
order to settle the claim fairly. Mr A asked for clarification on four points. Whilst I know his 
preference was for the claim to be settled based on his quotations, I understand that if the 
claim was to be settled according to the steps outlined, these four points were his only 
objections. Aviva confirmed it agreed with all the steps, although it also questioned how any 
deterioration in the condition of the garage since the start of the claim should be dealt with.
As theres broad agreement on the steps outlined, I dont propose to go through them in 
detail. Ill focus on the points queried by Mr A and Aviva.
Firstly, Mr A asked that all three engineers to be suggested by Aviva should be independent 
of Aviva and Company S. I agree, I think thats a reasonable way forward as the purpose of 
appointing an independent engineer is to progress the claim in light of the breakdown in 
relationship between Mr A and Company S (and by extension, Aviva).
Secondly, Mr A asked that all the engineers be RICS members in addition to being suitably 
qualified academically. In principle, I think that kind of membership is appropriate. However, I 
know many engineers arent members of RICS, so that stipulation may limit the options too 
far. I think membership of RICS or other relevant professional bodies would be reasonable. 
For example, the Institution of Civil Engineers or the Institution of Structural Engineers.
Thirdly, Mr A suggested the selected engineer should provide both parties with their report 
and their fully scoped and costed schedule of works. I agree, I think that would be in keeping 
with the engineers appointment as independent joint expert and the aim to ensure Mr A is 
indemnified fairly.
Lastly, Mr A asked that if Aviva were to carry out the work, it should on completion issue a 
Certificate of Structural Adequacy and a local authority building control completion 
certificate. I agree the former would be a standard part of a subsidence claim where the 
insurer carried out the work. And the latter would be if the work involved required such a 
certificate from building control. That will likely depend on the nature of the work, which is yet 
to be determined.
In summary, the claim settlement steps involve an independent engineer visiting and 
reporting on what options are available to Aviva to return Mr A to the position he was in 
immediately before the damage occurred  together with the associated costs. Aviva must 
then decide how to settle the claim.
Aviva would like the engineer to take into account the condition of the garage now compared 
to how it was at the beginning of the claim. It says the garage was repairable initially but will 
have deteriorated significantly since then.Mr A has pointed out that Aviva hasnt provided any evidence to support these statements. I 
agree. Its unclear what theyre based on. Whilst I accept the possibility of a repair remains, 
and this is something Aviva is entitled to explore, I havent seen anything to show the garage 
was repairable initially  but isnt any longer. Nor have I seen anything to show there has 
been significant deterioration. I note Mr A took relevant expert advice which identified a tree 
as the cause of subsidence  and had this removed. Usually the effect of that action is to 
help the subsoil rehydrate, stabilise, and subsidence movement to cease. In which case a 
significant change to the structure seems unlikely.
But even if it were shown the garage has deteriorated, Im not satisfied it would be fair, in the 
circumstances of this case, for Aviva to take that into account when settling the claim. Ill 
explain why.
For Aviva to take any such deterioration into account, it would have to be able to identify the 
extent of the deterioration and show that it had increased the cost of putting right the 
subsidence damage. If the garage had deteriorated but the cost of repair hadnt increased  
perhaps because the structure needed replacing in any event  then I dont think it would be 
fair to take any deterioration into account when settling the claim. And if a cash settlement 
were taken, Aviva would also have to be able to show how much the cost had increased, if 
at all, in order to deduct a fair amount from the settlement offer.
Aviva hasnt visited before and doesnt have a comprehensive account of the condition of the 
garage, including the cost to put the damage right, from around the time the claim began. So 
Im not satisfied it would be in a position to accurately identify how much, if any, deterioration 
had occurred or what the corresponding impact on costs would be. As a result, I dont think it 
would be practical in the circumstances of this case for Aviva to take into account any 
deterioration  even if some had occurred.
Returning to the settling claims policy term set out above, Mr A has referred to the last part 
of it which says:
If we can repair or replace property but agree to make a cash or voucher settlement 
we will only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it.
Mr A has noted it only limits the claim value to Avivas own costs when repairing or replacing 
property. That means the policy doesnt limit the claim value to Avivas own costs when 
reinstating the property.
I agree thats what the policy says. And I note the case law Mr A has quoted about the 
importance of clear policy wordings. But I must also take into account what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Replacement isnt relevant in the circumstances of this claim, so I wont go into it further.
So putting replacement to one side, the term applies to situations where Aviva can indemnify 
Mr A by repairing the building and offers to do so, but Mr A asks for a cash payment instead. 
The term gives Aviva the right to cap the payment at its own costs.
If Aviva can indemnify Mr A by reinstating the building and offers to do so, but Mr A asks for 
a cash payment instead, the policy doesnt give Aviva the right to cap the payment at its own 
costs. However, Im satisfied it would be fair for Aviva to limit the payment to its own costs in 
this situation. Thats because it wouldnt treat Mr A unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why. It would mean, regardless of whether the building can be repaired or reinstated, Aviva would 
be:
offering Mr A the opportunity to be indemnified by having a lasting and effective 
solution to the subsidence damage carried out by Aviva. 
paying the corresponding cost of the work to its contractor. 
providing Mr A with a fair offer to settle his claim. 
It doesnt though exclude the option of a cash settlement. Mr A would remain entitled to ask 
for a cash payment instead of having Aviva carry out the work. But if he did so, and Aviva is 
willing to carry out the work, Im not satisfied it would be reasonable to expect Aviva to pay 
more than the corresponding cost it would incur in having its contractors carry out the work. 
Where Aviva isnt prepared to carry out the work for Mr A, Im not satisfied it would be fair for 
Aviva to insist on settling according to its own costs  again, regardless of whether the 
building can be repaired or reinstated. In these circumstances Aviva would need to pay Mr A 
the costed schedule of works to treat him fairly.
Compensation
Aviva paid Mr A £400 in March 2019 in recognition of failures in its service up until that point. 
Aviva has now agreed to pay an additional £500 for failures since then, making a total of 
£900 compensation offered.
Mr A doesnt think this goes far enough to compensate him and Mrs A for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve been caused as a result of the way Aviva has handled the claim. He 
has suggested amounts he thinks would be fairer in the circumstances.
When considering what I think is a fair amount of compensation, Ive noted the following 
main points made in the previous Ombudsmans provisional decision:
Aviva acted unfairly by refusing to accept the claim until it had inspected the damage 
for itself and contributed to a stalemate and severe delays.
It was fair for Aviva to require a site visit of limited scope before settling the claim. But 
even if it had accepted the claim sooner, and offered this visit sooner, Mr A would 
likely have refused it.
Aviva caused Mr A a loss of expectation by giving the impression the surveyor report 
alone would suffice to settle the claim  and then reneged on this.
Similarly, Aviva offered a desktop review and then changed this after Mr A had 
agreed and provided requested information to a very short deadline.
Mr A made Aviva aware on several occasions that he and his wife were in poor 
health  so Aviva ought to have taken more care to handle the claim fairly.
Aviva and its agents were at times dismissive and adversarial.
Mr A has said Avivas unfair acts and omissions have contravened FCA rules and have been 
the root cause of the delay. Hes mentioned breaches of ICOBS, PRIN and TCF as well as 
generally unfair or unhelpful behaviour during the claim.
As Aviva has agreed to pay the additional compensation of £500, I dont think it objects to 
any of the bullet points listed above. 
I understand Mr A agrees with some of these points too  Aviva should have accepted the 
claim sooner, it caused a loss of expectation, reneged on agreements, didnt communicate 
as well as it should have done, and it caused delays. As these points are agreed by both 
parties, I wont go into them further. Ill focus on what remains in dispute.In his response to the provisional decision, Mr A has said he would have been prepared to 
accommodate a visit to assess the settlement value. In support of that, he notes he arranged 
a visit with Company S when he understood the nature of it would be to assess the 
settlement value. He only cancelled the visit after Company S said it would repeat site 
investigations carried out by Mr As surveyor.
Effectively, Mr A is saying that if Aviva had accepted the claim sooner, and asked to visit 
with the limited purpose of assessing the settlement options, he would likely have agreed to 
that. The claim would then have progressed much sooner. So Aviva is responsible for the 
time the claim has taken to reach this stage.
Aviva has agreed it ought to have accepted the claim sooner. Had it done so, I think its likely 
that would have led to it proposing a visit to explore the settlement options. Similar to the 
position reached now, I think its likely Aviva would have wanted to assess all settlement 
methods, including repair or other forms of reinstatement. It wouldnt have been limited to 
only working out what it would have cost Aviva to carry out the surveyors recommendations.
I take into account that this claim reached a stalemate in part because Aviva hadnt accepted 
it. But also because Mr A thought the claim should be settled based on the information he 
had provided  including the surveyors recommendations.
Mr A has argued throughout, including in response to the provisional decision, why there 
should be no need for a visit at all. And why the claim should be settled according to his 
surveyors recommendations. Its clear hes invested a significant amount of his time and 
energy into making his case and feels very strongly that the claim should be settled in the 
manner he would like.
So even if Aviva had accepted the claim sooner and/or been clearer that the purpose of a 
visit was exclusively to explore the settlement options, Im not persuaded the claim would 
likely have progressed significantly sooner.
I agree Aviva contributed to the stalemate and the associated delays for the reasons its 
already accepted. But I dont agree it was solely responsible for all of the delay reaching this 
point. Ive kept that in mind when thinking about a fair level of compensation.
Ive also taken into account that Aviva should have been clearer with Mr A about what the 
quotations should include  or not asked for them at all. Had it been clearer, its possible it 
could have found the quotations sufficiently detailed to settle the claim based on them alone. 
However, even with quotations that fulfilled the level of detail Aviva expected, that wouldnt 
prevent it from asking to visit before settling the claim. And given what Ive said above about 
this kind of visit being good industry practice, it may not have been unreasonable for Aviva to 
visit even with sufficiently detailed quotations. So it may have been more helpful if Aviva 
hadnt asked for quotations at all. Because of this, Im satisfied some inconvenience was 
caused by Avivas lack of clarity but the impact of it wasnt significant.
Weighing up all the relevant information, Im satisfied it would be fair for Aviva to pay 
compensation, in addition to the £400 paid early in the claim, to recognise the avoidable 
distress and inconvenience its delays and other mistakes have caused Mr and Mrs A.
During the period of delay that Aviva has contributed to, Mr A has lived with the damage to 
his garage without clarity about when or how it will be dealt with  and who will pay for it. 
Based on the quotes he received, I think he was reasonably concerned he may face a 
significant cost if Aviva refused to cover the claim.Mr A also notes the garage roof contained asbestos and the damage had likely led to fibres 
escaping. As a result, he was concerned about the health risk  particularly as he has been 
undergoing medical investigations for problems which may be related. And Mrs A has also 
suffered as a result of the stress brought about by the way the claim has been handled.
Overall, its clear Aviva has caused Mr and Mrs A distress and inconvenience by not 
accepting the claim sooner. The question for me is what a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation is to reflect their experience. 
Mr A has suggested amounts he thinks would be reasonable, based on different ways of 
considering compensation. These range from £4,000 to £24,000 and include reference to 
the compensation offered by Aviva, if it had been calculated as a monthly rate, awards this 
Service has made on other complaints he considers comparable, and calculations based on 
different hourly rates and the time Mr and Mrs A have spent on the claim.
Whilst this Service has a consistent approach to awarding compensation, each case is 
different and is determined on its own merits. So I bear in mind what Mr A has said about 
previous awards but they dont set precedent and dont have a direct impact on his case.
Mr A notes our guidance which says we dont make awards based on hourly rates, units of 
time, or the total time a consumer may have spent on their complaint. We look at the overall 
impact on the consumer of the business mistakes. So whilst I bear in mind the time he has 
spent on the complaint, I wont award him compensation based on an hourly rate.
Similarly, we dont set monthly rates of compensation for delays or expect insurers to do the 
same. The impact of a delay in one month can be different to the impact of a delay in 
another. And compensation often takes into account other factors, such as poor service and 
loss of expectation  not just the time taken  which may not occur throughout a period of 
delay. So just because Aviva offered £400 after 4 months, doesnt mean it would be fair and 
reasonable to infer a monthly rate of £100 and extend that over a longer duration. 
Depending on what had happened, that could under- or over-compensate.
Ive kept all of this in mind when considering what an appropriate amount of compensation 
would be for Mr A in the particular circumstances of his complaint.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied £500, in addition to the £400 Aviva has already 
paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It would mean a total of £900 
compensation. This Service generally considers this level of compensation to reflect 
substantial distress over a sustained period of time. Im satisfied thats a fair description of 
the experience Mr and Mrs A have been through during this claim.
Mr A has asked about being refunded the additional amounts of premium charged as a 
result of recording a subsidence claim against his property, bearing in mind Aviva hadnt 
accepted the claim. Now that its accepted the claim and all parties agree the damage was 
caused by subsidence, Im satisfied its reasonable for Aviva to record a subsidence claim 
and charge any corresponding premium increase in line with its underwriting guidelines that 
apply to all consumers. So Im not persuaded it should refund any premiums.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay an additional £500 compensation.
Accept the claim.Settle the claim by taking the following steps:
oAviva must find three suitably qualified independent engineers and give a list 
to Mr A. All three engineers must have confirmed theyre independent and 
members of RICS or other relevant professional bodies.
oMr A should confirm to Aviva which one from this list he would agree to being 
appointed.
oThe engineer is to be appointed as a single joint expert to prepare a report on 
what settlement options are open to Aviva (in order to put Mr A back in the 
position he was in immediately before the subsidence damage occurred) 
including by visiting Mr As property.
oIn conjunction with the report, a fully scoped and costed schedule of works 
will be prepared by the engineer, or a contractor overseen by the engineer.
oWhen instructing the engineer, Aviva must send them copies of the policy 
document from the insured period in which the subsidence damage first 
occurred, any photographs it has received from Mr A, the two expert reports 
commissioned by Mr A, the NHBRC certificate, the three quotations obtained 
by Mr A and a copy of my decision.
oA copy of the instructions must be sent to Mr A at the same time. He should 
be given one opportunity to send the engineer anything else hed like 
considered.
oThe engineer will report to both parties with a draft copy of their report and 
their fully scoped and costed schedule of works.
oThe parties will then have one opportunity to put questions to the independent 
engineer. After this has happened, the engineer will issue their final report to 
both parties.
oOn receipt of the report, Aviva must use it to decide how to settle the claim:
If Aviva offers to settle the claim by repair or reinstatement, Mr A can 
accept that, and Avivas contractors will carry out the work. It should 
be overseen by a suitably qualified engineer. A Certificate of Structural 
Adequacy should be issued on completion.
If Mr A doesnt accept Avivas offer to repair or reinstate, Aviva will 
settle the claim by cash payment, based on the cost it would incur if its 
contractors carried out the work.
If Aviva offers to settle the claim by cash payment, without offering to 
carry out the work, Aviva will settle based on the engineers costed 
schedule of work.
oAny settlement is subject to the principle of indemnity, and any policy 
excesses or limits that may apply.
oThe cost of the independent engineer is to be met in full by Aviva.
oAll of the above steps must be carried out in accordance with Avivas duties 
under ICOBS 8, including to handle claims promptly and fairly.Responses to my provisional decision
Email exchange between Mr A and Aviva
Mr A got in touch with Aviva. As my provisional decision said Aviva had accepted the claim, 
Mr A asked Aviva to confirm that with him directly.
Aviva told Mr A that if he accepted my decision, it would make arrangements to begin 
carrying out the claim settlement steps.
Mr A thought it was unfair of Aviva not to confirm to him directly that it had accepted the 
claim. He asked to make a complaint about that. Aviva said, this is not a new complaint but 
rather referring to the ombudsman decision.
Avivas response
Aviva confirmed it accepted my provisional decision.
It also said that it was waiting to hear whether Mr A had accepted my decision before taking 
any further action with him.
Correspondence between Company S and Mr A
Company S got in touch with Mr A to set out draft instructions to an independent engineer.
Mr A responded to Company S to make a number of points, which Ill summarise:
He questioned why it was doing this as I was yet to make my final decision.
He was concerned that the instructions didnt reflect the steps I had set out in my 
provisional decision for a number of reasons and contradicted some of the other 
findings I had made.
He said the relationship between he and Company S had broken down and he didnt 
think Company S should play any further part in resolving the complaint.
He also made a number of points about the relevant law and regulations and 
reiterated that he thought the quotes he had provided were sufficient to base 
settlement on.
Mr A said he thought the way Company S had acted showed the approach to settlement I 
had set out in my provisional decision wouldnt provide a quick resolution with minimal 
formality and nor would it offer him an appropriate degree of consumer protection.
Mr As responses
Mr A provided substantial responses in which he made many points. Ill set out a summary of 
what appear to me to be the main points he has raised:
Mr A agrees Aviva should accept the claim, without seeking to apply any exclusion.
It was reasonable for Mr A to ask Aviva to confirm it had accepted his claim. And it 
was reasonable for him to maintain communication directly with Aviva. All 
communication doesnt have to be between or through the Ombudsman Service. 
Banning or restricting him from contacting Aviva is against what hes called the 
Padfield obligation. Its also denied him an opportunity to negotiate with Aviva.I should reconsider my decision in relation to the settlement and compensation. I 
havent taken into account or rationally weighed up: good industry practice, relevant 
law, rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice. Including, amongst other 
things, PRIN and ICOBS.
I havent sufficiently taken into account the standards in what Mr A describes as the 
touchstones of fairness and reasonableness. For example:
oAvivas own Business Ethics Code says it should maintain the highest 
standards of business integrity, including adherence to the law, regulations 
and principles.
oPRIN 2.1 sets out a number of principles Aviva should follow  and these are 
the essence of what is fair and reasonable.
oICOBS 2.5 requires Aviva to, amongst other things, act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer.
oICOBS 8 requires Aviva to apply legal principles fairly and reasonably when 
handling claims  including the principles of contract formation, variation of 
contract, estoppel and waiver.
oEven when adhering to good industry practice, Aviva must also comply with 
all relevant law and regulations, rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice.
Mr A agrees it would be unfair for Aviva to take into account any deterioration in the 
garage in the settlement of the claim. However, he doesnt agree with the other 
proposed terms of settlement.
Instead, Mr A has suggested the claim should be settled by Aviva paying the average 
of his three quotes (around £55,000 including VAT) and adjusted to take into account 
any change in building costs since the quotes were provided, less the excess.
In support of this, Mr A has reiterated his concerns with the way Aviva handled the 
claim. These include, but arent limited to:
oThe policy doesnt highlight that Aviva will delegate authority to Company S or 
that Company S will determine the claim to its own satisfaction. Nor does it 
disclose a conflict of interest arising from delegating authority to Company S.
oCompany S business model amounts to an unfair commercial practice and 
can cause unfairness to consumers.
oDelegating authority to Company S didnt amount to good industry practice, 
even if it may be common industry practice.
oAviva agreed to settle the claim by payment on a reinstatement basis. It 
issued no reservation of rights notice.
oWhen Aviva wouldnt settle the claim based on Mr As surveyors cost 
estimate, it asked him to provide three quotations  but without setting out 
what information it expected to see in the quotes.
oAfter this, Company S told him it was still dealing with his subsidence claim. 
He understood this meant the quotations had been accepted by Aviva and 
they would be used to pay the claim. This had the effect of affirming the contract and waiving any right Aviva had to settle the claim by any method 
other than payment based on the quotes.
oAviva has provided no evidence to suggest the quotations are excessively 
highly priced. Nor has it said the quotations arent detailed enough. Settling 
based on the quotations is fair and reasonable.
oSettlement wasnt made because Company S insisted on visiting to determine 
the claim to its own satisfaction, including repeating site investigations and 
assessing what it would cost Aviva to reinstate the garage. It also said hed 
breached the condition requiring him to provide assistance during the claim.
oAviva acted in breach of contract, ICOBS and PRIN when it refused to settle 
the claim.
I either incorrectly applied, or didnt take into account at all, relevant legal principles, 
including waiver, estoppel and contract formation or variation.
The method of settlement I set out would unreasonably and unfairly delay the claim 
further and cause further distress and inconvenience.
The policy wording is very poorly drafted, and I havent put enough weight on that. It 
includes no express right to inspect, how the claim is to be processed, how indemnity 
is to be measured and uses vague phrases, such as prove any loss.
My argument that its generally good industry practice to carry out a site visit is far 
outweighed by Avivas obligations to follow the law, FCA rules of conduct and Avivas 
own Business Ethics Code.
Mr A has shown that reinstatement is the only reasonable and feasible option and 
has established the reasonable cost of the reasonably necessary restoration work to 
the required degree of precision.
It would be unfair and unlawful for Aviva to cap the indemnity value at its own costs. I 
should require Aviva to apply the wording as set out in the policy.
Aviva is responsible for all of the delay from February 2019 onwards. It would be 
unreasonable and irrational to attribute any of the delay to Mr A. He set out a number 
of reasons for this, including:
oAviva insisted on a visit by Company S. This was unlawful, unfair and 
unreasonable because Company S had a conflict of interest arising from its 
business model.
oCompany S required a visit of much wider scope than exploring the 
settlement options. It wanted to repeat the site investigations carried out by 
Mr As surveyor and that was unlawful, unfair, unreasonable and contrary to 
rules and regulations. Company S insisted the claim had to be proven to its 
own satisfaction and that was the root cause of all the subsequent delay.
oMr A was entitled to decline a visit from Company S. Avivas insistence 
otherwise caused the delay from February 2019 onwards.oAviva could have appointed an independent expert sooner if it didnt accept 
the information Mr A had provided. It could also have intervened much sooner 
to prevent further delay, distress and inconvenience to Mr A.
oAviva should be held responsible for all of the delay since the three 
quotations were submitted. Not settling the claim promptly, based on the 
quotations, breaches PRIN 2.1 amongst other things.
oHighlighting online comments about Company S business model, he said 
Company S should play no further part in resolving his complaint.
oBecause of the way Aviva has acted, it caused unreasonable and substantial 
delays. As a result, it should be allowed no further involvement, other than to 
pay the claim settlement and compensation.
oAvivas unprofessional behaviour when interacting with this Service has also 
substantially contributed to the overall delay.
oIts speculative, irrational and contrary to the evidence to say Mr A would only 
ever have agreed to a visit with the sole purpose of costing his surveyors 
recommendations. This view relies on hindsight and hypothesis about what 
might or could have happened. Instead, I should focus on what actually 
happened when Aviva initially accepted the claim in February 2019. Mr A 
agreed to a site visit without limiting it to this sole purpose.
oWhilst Mr As stance later changed, this was because of a sense of caution 
as a result of the way Aviva and Company S were acting.
oAn Ombudsman may decide to base compensation on the Insurance Act 
2015. Mr A would like me to clarify whether I have done so or not.
I havent given due consideration to the relevant law and regulations  and the points 
set out above  when deciding on a reasonable amount of compensation.
My comment that it may have been reasonable for Company S to visit, even with 
sufficiently detailed quotations, was an irrelevant consideration.
The proposed compensation award is derisory, bearing in mind the financial costs, 
distress, inconvenience and harm caused by Aviva.
Mr A reminded me of the approaches to compensation he suggested in response to 
the previous Ombudsmans provisional decision. Referring to an insurance dispute 
which suggested this Service may make awards based on an hourly or daily rate, he 
also suggested a compensation figure of around £16,000.
If I maintain that an award of £500 is reasonable compensation, Mr A asks me not to 
consider the issue or make any award at all, such that he may explore compensation 
in other ways.
If I consider that Mr A was responsible for any of the delay, I should identify the 
specific periods of time with reference to the relevant evidence.
Hearing requestMr A said that if my view remained largely unchanged, he would like me to hold a hearing 
prior to making my final decision. I explained why I didnt think that was necessary. In 
summary, I was satisfied that Mr A was able to present his evidence in writing and the 
information Id received from both parties was sufficiently clear and detailed for me to be 
able to decide the complaint fairly without a hearing.
In summary, Mr As response said he was no longer free to approach Aviva to source further 
evidence to support his response to my provisional decision. He said he was in the process 
of writing to Aviva for further information before he was prevented from doing so by this 
Service. I understand he was seeking further information in relation to the part of my 
provisional decision concerned with claim delays and compensation. He questioned when 
Aviva had accepted it contributed to the delays and agreed it ought to have accepted the 
claim sooner. He also said he didnt think Aviva and its representatives had provided all 
relevant information about the cause of the delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As submissions are of substantial length. Ive summarised what I understand to be his 
main arguments above, but I want to assure Mr A that if an argument or point he has raised 
isnt set out above, it doesnt mean that I havent read and considered it when reaching my 
final decision.
I have read and considered everything both parties have presented over the course of the 
complaint but have focused in my final decision on what I need to decide in order to reach a 
fair and reasonable outcome. I have therefore only concentrated on directly responding to 
the points Mr A has made which are relevant for the purposes of determining a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Throughout Mr As submissions, including his response to my provisional decision, hes 
referred to many legal principles, case law, rules, guidance, standards, codes of practice, 
and commented on good industry practice. As I set out in my provisional decision, DISP 
3.6.4R provides that: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
the Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a)  law and regulations;
(b)  regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c)  codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
My role isnt to provide a legal judgment on the points Mr As raised. Ill engage with the legal 
position to the extent required to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion. Ill set out what I 
consider to be the key points when determining what a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint is. Whilst Im required to take into account relevant law, it isnt the only factor Im 
required to take into account and its not the determinative one. The law is just one of the 
factors Im required to take into account when considering what is fair and reasonable. Im 
required to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, so thats what Ill focus on.Ill again set out my findings based on the three main areas of dispute, and consider each in 
turn:
1.) Claim acceptance 
2.) Claim settlement 
3.) Compensation
Claim acceptance
Aviva still agrees to accept the subsidence claim, without being able to later rely on any 
exclusions to decline it, as does Mr A. So, Im satisfied this point is resolved and doesnt 
require further comment.
I know Mr A had asked Aviva to confirm that it had accepted the claim after my provisional 
decision and it didnt do so. I understand Aviva was awaiting the outcome of the decision 
process before taking the next steps. I dont think that was unreasonable.
Its usual practice for the respondent business to wait until this Service has reached a final 
decision, and weve confirmed whether the complainant has accepted or rejected that 
decision, before it will get in touch with the complainant to take any further steps (if 
necessary). That ensures our process has concluded and both parties understand what, if 
anything, the respondent business is required to do.
As the claim has been accepted, Ill go on to consider how it should be settled.
Claim settlement
The opportunity to negotiate a settlement
Mr A says hes been banned or restricted from contacting Aviva by this Service. He says 
hes been unable to negotiate a settlement with Aviva as a result.
This Service hasnt prevented Mr A contacting Aviva. But Ive considered what impact it had 
on Mr As complaint if he thought he was unable to communicate directly with Aviva.
Mr A has based his understanding he couldnt contact Aviva directly on an email this Service 
sent him on 11 November 2022. Prior to that, Mr A hasnt questioned that he knew he was 
free to contact Aviva directly. Indeed, he got in direct contact with Aviva to ask it to confirm it 
had accepted his claim. So, if, at that point or earlier, he had wanted to explore the 
opportunity to negotiate a settlement directly with Aviva, he was aware he was free to do so. 
Mr A didnt do that.
Following the previous Ombudsmans provisional decision, Mr A suggested a settlement to 
this Service. We shared his suggestion with Aviva and invited it to consider settling the 
complaint that way. Aviva repeatedly confirmed that it had no intention to settle the dispute in 
the manner Mr A had suggested. So even if Mr A had wanted to negotiate directly with 
Aviva, but felt unable to after 11 November 2022, Im not persuaded its likely Aviva would 
have agreed to a settlement with him. 
Should the claim be settled as Mr A suggested?
Mr A hasnt agreed to settle the claim as I set out in my provisional decision. Hes suggested 
a different method of settlement. In summary, he would like Aviva to base settlement on the 
three quotations he provided and make an adjustment to reflect any change in building costs 
since the quotations were given. Aviva hasnt agreed to do so.Ive thought about whether this would be a fair and reasonable way to settle the claim.
I think its important to start by returning  to the policy term which sets out how claims are 
settled. Buildings Condition 2 says:
Settling Claims
We can choose to settle your claim by
oReplacing
oReinstating
oRepairing
oPayment
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent 
available in the current market.
If we can repair or replace property but agree to make a cash or voucher settlement 
we will only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it.
And the general condition 4b, which says:
You must  provide all the information and help we need to settle your claim
In my provisional decision, I set out some key findings about these terms and their impact on 
the claim, bearing in mind other relevant factors. I wont repeat them in full as theyre set out 
above, but I will summarise the main points:
The policy is clear that Aviva can choose the method of settlement.
But it must also ensure that whatever method it chooses fairly indemnifies Mr A.
To do that, it will need to understand which methods are appropriate in the 
circumstances  and the corresponding cost(s).
The information provided by Mr A isnt sufficient for Aviva to make an informed 
choice about how to settle the claim fairly.
To gather the information needed to make an informed choice, it would be fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to visit the property and inspect the garage and prepare a 
scoped and costed schedule of works.
The orange information box is non-contractual padding. But even if Im wrong about 
that, it allows for a site visit. The policy doesnt specify that a visit will be required to 
decide how to settle the claim. But Condition 4b allows for a site visit and, even if I 
am wrong on that point, a site visit is good industry practice.
Given the significant value of the quotes (over £50,000) and rising building costs 
since they were provided, an accurate settlement would treat both parties fairly by 
ensuring neither loses out and Mr A is fairly indemnified.
Other policy terms and legal arguments raised by Mr A dont change the conclusions 
Ive reached.
Overall, I wasnt satisfied settlement based on quotes, and denying Aviva the opportunity to 
visit to explore the settlement options, and their costs, was fair and reasonable.
Im not satisfied the method of settlement Mr A suggested in response to my findings 
overcomes the points I made. So my view about this hasnt changed. Ill explain why that is.Mr As suggestion still amounts to settling the claim by cash payment, based on the 
quotations  and without Aviva, Company S, or an independent engineer visiting to inspect 
the damage.
That means it doesnt include the opportunity for Aviva to explore whether a repair or 
reinstatement by methods other than that set out by Mr As surveyor is possible. Nor does it 
include the opportunity for Aviva to determine what its own costs would be for those options.  
It effectively requires Aviva to accept the garage must be demolished and rebuilt on a new 
foundation  and at the cost outlined in the quotes, with adjustments  but without the 
chance to investigate any of that for itself.
For the same reasons as I found in my provisional decision, Im not satisfied that method of 
settlement is in line with the policy terms, good industry practice or whats fair and 
reasonable. It still leaves both parties at a significant risk of losing out  including the risk of 
Mr A not being fairly indemnified.
Mr A has said that allowing Aviva to settle the claim after a site visit is out of line with Avivas 
obligations to follow the law, rules of conduct or its own Business Ethics Code.
In support of his suggestion, Mr A has made a number of points. As Ive already said, whilst 
Ive read and thought about all of the points hes made when making my decision, not all of 
the points are relevant and Ill only respond directly to matters which are relevant for the 
purposes of determining a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this case.
Mr A says Aviva accepted the claim and agreed to settle it by cash payment on a 
reinstatement basis.
Aviva has conceded it made an error when it initially agreed for Mr A to obtain a surveyors 
report. It acknowledges this caused a delay and I think its common ground that Aviva gave 
Mr A the impression his claim may be settled on the basis of the report alone. So, when it 
said it needed to visit him to form its own opinion about the claim, he suffered a loss of 
expectation. But Im satisfied it was clear at this stage that it hadnt accepted the claim  or 
agreed how to settle it  as it wanted to visit before doing either of these things.
Aviva also said it was normal procedure to obtain three quotes for major work  and an 
insurance claim was no different. Mr A later provided three quotes. Aviva said they werent 
detailed enough to base settlement on. Whilst I found in my provisional decision that Aviva 
should have been clearer about what would need to be included in quotes, Im not satisfied it 
said it would settle the claim on the basis of the quotes in any event. I havent seen any 
evidence to show it made a firm commitment to settle on this basis. Nor am I satisfied that 
saying it was dealing with the claim after Mr A had provided the quotations meant it had 
agreed to settle the claim on the basis of those quotations.
Its agreed that Aviva should have been clearer with Mr A at times  and not doing so was a 
mistake. In my view, those mistakes caused a loss of expectation, delays, frustration, and 
distress, all of which should be compensated for. But Im not persuaded the fair and 
reasonable response to these mistakes is to require Aviva to settle the claim without being 
given the opportunity to explore the settlement options  for the reasons given above.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr A has put a lot of focus on Company S. 
Particularly its business model, relationship to Aviva, and the impact that may have had on 
the claim, for explaining why settlement should be based on his quotes. Hes suggested 
Company S business model with Aviva amounts to an unfair commercial practice and Aviva 
appointing Company S amounts to a conflict of interest.Aviva has a number of regulatory duties to fulfil when it handles a claim. As Mr A has noted, 
ICOBS and PRIN are of particular importance. If it appoints an agent, such as Company S, 
the agent must also fulfil those duties. Its my role to consider whether Aviva, through the 
use of Company S as its agent, has treated Mr A fairly and reasonably, including but not 
limited to, fulfilling those duties. Whilst Mr A has made a number of broader points about the 
relationship between Aviva and Mr A, my focus will be on whether Aviva and Company S 
have fulfilled these duties and treated Mr A fairly and reasonably.
I acknowledge Mr As point that Aviva doesnt specify in its policy that it may appoint an 
agent or agents to handle claims on its behalf. Nor does it specify the names of any such 
agents or what agreements may exist between Aviva and an agent.
Its common industry practice for household insurers to appoint agents during claims. I agree 
with Mr As point that common industry practice may not amount to good industry practice. 
There are a variety of situations in which I consider an insurer appointing an agent does 
amount to good industry practice though. One of which is for an insurer to draw upon 
specialist expertise from an agent where it doesnt have that available within its organisation.
In Mr As claim, Aviva has appointed Company S  an agent specialising in subsidence  to 
handle a subsidence claim on its behalf. That means Aviva has taken steps to ensure the 
claim is handled by an agent with extensive experience of resolving subsidence problems. I 
think appointing an agent with relevant experience and expertise reflects good industry 
practice and treats Mr A fairly and reasonably.
Ive considered a number of policy booklets across the household insurance industry, from 
around the time Mr A made his claim, and I havent found any that specify the insurer may 
appoint agents  or set out any details about who the agents might be or what arrangements 
the insurer may have with them. So, Aviva isnt acting out of step with the industry by not 
including this information.
For many types of claims, an insurer may not need to draw upon specialist expertise to 
handle a claim fairly and reasonably. And it may have a large network of agents that it can 
appoint, depending on factors such as the type and cause of the damage, where the 
damage happened, or the value of the claim. Insurers may change relationships with 
different agents at different times. Im not persuaded it would be practical or helpful to 
consumers to provide all this information within policies  and keep issuing revised policies 
as the information changes. The fundamental point is that regardless of which agent the 
insurer appoints, or the circumstances in which it appoints them, the insurer must ensure the 
agent fulfils its regulatory duties and treats the consumer fairly and reasonably.
Similarly, I havent found any policies from the relevant time that set out other things Mr A 
has referred to, such as an express right to inspect, details about how the claim will be 
processed or how indemnity is to be measured. So, Im not persuaded Aviva is acting out of 
line with the industry by not including them. I think this kind of information can vary between 
different claim types and circumstances, and it wouldnt be practical to include prescriptive 
guidance to cover all eventualities for each of these points in a policy. Again, the important 
thing is that Aviva has regulatory duties to fulfil and must treat the consumer fairly and 
reasonably  and it can do that in a variety of ways and without needing to specify them all in 
the policy booklet.
Even if I found that Aviva should include any of this information in its policy or otherwise 
highlight it at the point of sale, which I dont, I would still have to go on to consider what 
impact that had on Mr As claim. It wouldnt automatically mean that Aviva should act 
differently in relation to his claim or that his claim should be settled as he wishes.Mr A hasnt argued, for example, that if he had known Aviva may appoint an agent, he would 
have acted differently, for example by not taking out Avivas policy and finding another with 
different terms. Based on what Ive seen across the industry, Im not satisfied its likely Mr A 
would have found other household policies which provide the level of detail in the policy that 
hes suggested Aviva ought to have done. And as Ive found it represents good industry 
practice for an insurer to base settlement on a visit for the reasons set out above, I think its 
likely any insurer would want to take a similar approach to Aviva when settling the claim. So, 
Im not persuaded the absence from Avivas policy of more detailed information about 
appointing agents has had any material impact on Mr A.
I agree with Mr A that policies should be clear and avoid as far as possible the use of 
language which is vague or open to interpretation. But in the key points relevant to this 
claim, I havent found Avivas policy to be sufficiently unclear, vague or open to interpretation 
such that it has led to him being treated unfairly or unreasonably.
To summarise my findings on whether the claim should be settled as Mr A suggested:
The policy is clear that Aviva can choose the method of settlement and it allows for a 
site visit.
A site visit is good industry practice and would treat both parties fairly by ensuring 
neither loses out.
Aviva hadnt accepted the claim, or agreed how to settle it, when it invited Mr A to 
obtain a surveyors report or when it said it would be normal procedure to obtain 
three quotes for major work.
Whilst Aviva has made mistakes in the way it handled the claim, the fair and 
reasonable response isnt to require Aviva to settle the claim as Mr A wishes.
Appointing Company S amounted to good industry practice.
Avivas policy didnt provide the detail Mr A has suggested it should have done. But it 
didnt need to, that approach wasnt out of line with the industry, and including those 
details wouldnt have had a material impact on Mr A.
So, taking into account all the relevant information, including Mr As response to my 
provisional decision, Im not persuaded it would be fair for the claim to be settled as he has 
suggested. That is, on a cash basis without a visit to the garage.
How should the claim be settled?
Aviva agreed to settle the claim as I set out in my provisional decision. That means it agrees 
not to take into account in the settlement any deterioration the garage may have suffered 
since the claim began. Mr A also agrees with this point. So, Im satisfied this point is 
resolved, and it doesnt require any further discussion.
That also means Aviva agreed to the steps I outlined. In summary, thats for an independent 
engineer to be appointed to explore the options for indemnifying Mr A.
Mr A questioned whether this method of settlement would unfairly and unreasonably delay 
the claim further and cause further distress and inconvenience. He also suggested it may be 
contrary to what he calls the Padfield obligation if it doesnt provide:
A quick resolution with minimum formality
An appropriate degree of consumer protection
Prevention of consumer detrimentMr A says the Padfield obligation means a public authority must exercise statutory power in 
a way that promotes the policy and objects of the legislation. A decision maker must not use 
their discretion in a way that thwarts or runs counter to it. I understand this to mean Mr A 
considers I shouldnt make a decision that frustrates the empowering legislation of this 
Service, which is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
The role of this Service is to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum formality based on 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, taking into account the 
factors in DISP 3.6.4R. Ive kept this role in mind when thinking about what a fair method of 
settlement would be.
Ive explained above why Im not satisfied it would be fair and reasonable to settle the claim 
without Aviva having the opportunity to visit and explore the settlement options and 
corresponding costs. Part of the reason is the risk of Mr A not being fairly indemnified if an 
accurate, fully scoped and costed schedule of works isnt produced.
I also take into account that the relationship between Mr A and Aviva and Company S has 
clearly broken down. I know Mr A would prefer Company S to be removed from the claim 
completely. Aviva is free to do that and handle the remainder of the claim directly if it wishes. 
But Im not persuaded it would be fair for me to require Aviva to remove Company S. Aviva 
appointed Company S to ensure it had the support of a subsidence specialist with relevant 
expertise and experience. Im satisfied Aviva is entitled to continue to rely upon that support 
to handle the claim.
The method of settlement I set out means that the key aspects of the claim  visiting Mr A, 
determining the settlement options and their costs if Aviva doesnt offer to carry out the work 
 will be carried out by an independent engineer, rather than Aviva or Company S. It also 
means the claim can be settled in line with the policy terms and good industry practice, 
whilst ensuring Mr A is fairly and fully indemnified.
To make the settlement less formal, I could have included less steps or less detail within the 
steps about how to resolve the dispute. However, given the deterioration of the relationship 
between Mr A and Aviva and Company S, I considered it necessary to provide such detailed 
steps. Ill explain why.
At its heart, this complaint is about a very simple question  is it fair for Aviva to insist on a 
visit to the garage as part of handling a claim about its damage? Yet, for a variety of 
reasons, its taken over four years to answer that question. To resolve the claim fairly, more 
questions, and questions of greater complexity, will need to be answered. For example, can 
the garage be repaired or must it be reinstated? What methods of repair and/or 
reinstatement are viable? What are the corresponding costs  to Aviva and at local rates 
available to Mr A? Bearing all of that in mind, how can Mr A be fairly indemnified?
Given its taken over four years and a substantial amount of correspondence to answer the 
first question, without a framework for both parties to work within, I think answering the 
remaining questions is also likely to take a long time and generate a lot of correspondence.
So, in the context of the particular circumstances of this complaint, I consider that formally 
setting out a number of specific steps will provide the quickest resolution with the least 
formality, whilst also treating both parties fairly and reasonably.
Mr A has queried the draft instructions to an independent engineer that Company S recently 
shared with him. Hes also raised two points about the steps I outlined in my provisional 
decision  whether Aviva should be able to cap the indemnity value to its own costs and whether it should add interest. As Mr A hasnt challenged or queried any of the other steps I 
set out, I see no reason to change them or comment on them further.
Ill comment on the draft instructions and indemnity value here and return to the point about 
interest in a sub section below.
Company S shared draft instructions for an independent engineer with Mr A following my 
provisional decision. Mr A questioned why it had done this as I hadnt made my final 
decision. And it came after Aviva had said it wouldnt confirm acceptance of the claim whilst 
it waited to hear whether Mr A had accepted my decision. So, I think sharing the instructions 
at this stage has caused some confusion. Aviva can help prevent this happening again by 
waiting for confirmation that the Final Decision has been accepted or rejected by Mr A, 
before taking any further steps.
I see the draft instructions were shared with Mr A before being issued to any engineers, and 
thats given him the chance to comment on them. However, Im disappointed to see the 
instructions dont accurately reflect the steps I outlined. So, I can understand why they have 
caused Mr A some concern. Ill comment on the key points Mr A has made.
Mr A noted that one of the steps I outlined required Aviva to send the engineer a 
specific list of documents and other information. But what Company S proposed to 
send the engineer doesnt match that list. I agree. Aviva should ensure everything 
within the list set out in the steps Ive outlined is shared with the engineer to comply 
with the direction.
Mr A also said the instructions included false or misleading statements. For example, 
it says the damage was notified to insurers in February 2019  but its common 
ground that Mr A got in touch with Aviva in October 2018. Aviva should ensure all 
information included within the instructions is accurate and factual.
Mr A noted the instructions asked the engineer to give their opinion about the cause 
of damage. But Aviva has accepted the damage has been caused by subsidence, so 
thats not in dispute any longer. And that doesnt reflect what I outlined in the steps. 
Aviva should ensure the instructions accurately reflect the steps.
The draft instructions say the engineers report obviously needs to reflect policy 
cover and FOS best practice. In principle, Im satisfied thats a reasonable 
statement. But Mr A has noted that Company S went on to interpret those things 
without reference to the policy terms or anything to objectively set out the best 
practice of this Service. Mr A has suggested that it should be left to the engineer to 
take into account the policy wording and any other directions in this decision. I agree, 
I think that would be more consistent with the engineers role as independent expert. 
Ill comment on two points to help with that.
oThe policy covers loss or damage to the building (as defined in the policy) by 
subsidence. Strictly that means the policy only covers the cost of putting right 
the subsidence damage. Taken literally, that could mean simply repairing the 
damage only. But its a long held position of this Service that when putting 
right damage, it would be fair for an insurer to provide a lasting and effective 
solution. In the context of subsidence, that means ensuring the structure is 
stable.
oSimilarly, taken literally, the policy only covers damaged parts  not anything 
undamaged. Its another long held position of this Service that if, in order to 
carry out a lasting and effective repair to damaged areas, work is needed to undamaged areas, it would be fair for the insurer to pay for work to the 
undamaged areas.
The broad purpose of the steps Ive outlined is for Aviva to be able to fairly 
indemnify Mr A for the subsidence damage  and to do so in accordance with 
ICOBS and treating him fairly and reasonably. Aviva should always keep this in 
mind.
Mr A has said it would be unfair and unlawful for Aviva to cap the indemnity value at its own 
costs if it chose to settle the claim on a reinstatement basis and it should apply the wording 
of the policy.
I think its common ground that the replacement option mentioned in the policy isnt relevant 
here. Putting that aside, the policy gives Aviva the right to cap the amount it pays at its own 
costs if it chooses to settle the claim by repair. The policy doesnt give Aviva the right to cap 
the amount it pays if it chooses to settle the claim by reinstatement.
Ive thought about what Mr A has said on this point, but it hasnt changed my mind.
The fact remains that regardless of whether the garage can be repaired or reinstated, if 
Aviva offers to provide a lasting and effective solution to the subsidence damage by carrying 
out the work, it will be offering Mr A the opportunity to be indemnified  which will amount to 
a fair offer to settle the claim.
Despite this, Mr A would remain entitled to ask to settle the claim by cash payment. If he did 
so, and Aviva had offered to indemnify him, Im not satisfied it would be reasonable to expect 
Aviva to pay him more than it would have paid its contractors to carry out the work.
However, if Aviva doesnt offer to indemnify Mr A by carrying out lasting and effective work, 
Im not satisfied it would be reasonable for Aviva to cap the settlement at its own cost 
whether the work is a repair or reinstatement. Thats because its likely the cost to Mr A 
would be greater than the cost to Aviva as a result of the preferential rates it enjoys. And if 
Aviva isnt offering to carry out the work, that would leave Mr A in a position where hes likely 
to lose out  which wouldnt treat him fairly. In these circumstances, it would be fair for Aviva 
to pay Mr A the costed schedule of works instead, as they will reflect local rates.
Compensation
Mr A asked me not to consider compensation, or make a finding about it, if I didnt change 
my mind about what I consider a fair amount is in the circumstances. He says this is 
because he may seek appropriate compensation by future recourse to the court.
Mr A may be able to completely withdraw a complaint point. For example, if he had asked 
me not to consider compensation at all. But hes only asked me not to make a finding if, 
having considered his extensive reasons in support of a significantly higher compensation 
figure, I dont agree a much higher figure is reasonable in the circumstances. Or, to put it 
another way, he would like me to make a finding about compensation if its in line with his 
opinion about a reasonable compensation figure.
In my view, that means Mr A is effectively still asking me to consider compensation and 
make a finding about it. And as Im doing that, I think its appropriate for me to set out my key 
considerations and findings here for both parties.
If Mr A doesnt agree with my final decision, hes entitled to reject it. That would mean its not 
legally binding on any party.So Ive gone on to consider compensation, including the comments Mr A made in response 
to my provisional decision. I wont repeat my provisional findings about compensation in full 
here, as theyre set out above. Ill summarise the key points:
Aviva paid Mr A £400 in March 2019 for its failures up to that point.
Its also agreed to pay an additional £500 for its failures since then, making a total of 
£900 compensation offered.
Its common ground that Aviva:
oActed unfairly by refusing to accept the claim. This contributed to the 
stalemate and severe delays.
oCaused a loss of expectation by giving the impression the surveyor report 
alone may suffice to settle the claim.
oOffered a desktop review and then withdrew the offer after Mr A had provided 
information to a very short deadline.
oOught to have taken more care to handle the claim fairly given Mr and 
Mrs As poor health.
oWas at times dismissive and adversarial, as was Company S.
I also thought Aviva should have been clearer about what information it would need 
in quotes. Taking into account the responses to my provisional decision, I think this 
point is common ground now too.
The key point remaining in dispute is whether, if Aviva had accepted the claim 
sooner, Mr A would have agreed for it to visit to explore the settlement options in a 
similar way to that Ive outlined above  or whether he would only have agreed to a 
visit for the sole and specific purpose of establishing how much it would cost Aviva to 
implement his surveyors recommendations.
I wasnt satisfied Mr A would likely have agreed to a visit fully exploring the 
settlement options. Hes argued throughout, in extensive detail, drawing upon a wide 
variety of information, why the claim should be settled in the manner he would like.
Bearing in mind the impact on Mr and Mrs A of Avivas mistakes, and this Services 
approach to awarding compensation, I was satisfied an additional £500 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
In response to my provisional decision, Aviva remains prepared to pay an additional £500 
compensation. Mr A remains unsatisfied with this amount. Hes suggested around £16,000. 
The key point of dispute remains what would have happened had Aviva accepted the claim 
sooner  and asked to fully explore the settlement options, including a visit, along the lines 
Ive outlined as a resolution to this complaint. So thats what Ill focus on.
Im satisfied this is a reasonable question to ask. If, for example, I found Mr A would likely 
have agreed to such a visit, then it would follow that Aviva is responsible for most, if not all, 
of the delay. However, if instead I found Mr A wouldnt likely have agreed, then even if Aviva 
had accepted the claim as early as it should have done, its likely the stalemate and delay 
would have continued nonetheless. In such circumstances, Im not satisfied it would be fair 
to hold Aviva responsible for a significant amount of the delay. Regardless of whatever 
finding I reach on this point, its agreed Aviva is responsible for some of the delay as a result 
of not accepting the claim sooner. Ill now go on to consider whether it should be held 
responsible for a more significant amount of the delay.
I wont reiterate the points I made in my provisional decision about how this Service 
considers compensation or the points that are in agreement. Ill focus on the key points Mr A 
has made in response to my provisional decision.Mr A says hes been unable to provide further information that he intended to obtain from 
Aviva and I understand thats in relation to the cause of the delay. Ive explained above why 
Im satisfied Mr A wasnt prevented from getting in touch with Aviva if he wished. But even if 
he felt he couldnt, its not clear what information he would have gathered that isnt already 
available  and how he thinks it would have made a material difference to my findings about 
the delays and compensation. I dont think the background to this complaint and the key 
points in its timeline are in dispute. So Im satisfied I have all relevant information available 
with which to reach a decision thats fair and reasonable.
I dont think its necessary for me to identify an exact period of delay to hold either party 
responsible for in order to reach and explain a fair and reasonable outcome. Our 
compensation awards arent based on units of time. We take into account the broad period 
of delay, the impact that delay caused, and all other relevant factors (such as poor 
communication or a loss of expectation), when thinking about compensation. So theres no 
need to establish an exact period of time to reach a fair decision about compensation.
To recap, Mr A first got in touch about the damage in October 2018. He provided his 
surveyors report soon after. Company S was appointed in February 2019 and asked to visit. 
Mr A initially agreed to that, but cancelled the visit when it became clear the purpose would 
be broad and may include Company S investigating whether the damage had been caused 
by subsidence  despite his surveyor already saying it had been.
In April 2019, Mr A said to Aviva that he had no objection to a site meeting for the purpose of 
calculating what it would have cost Aviva to implement the recommendation of his surveyor. 
So I think he was quite clear at this stage that, whilst he was prepared to accommodate a 
visit, it was for the limited and specific purpose of costing his surveyors recommendations.
Aviva didnt agree to such a visit. It said Company S would repeat the investigations carried 
out by Mr As surveyor to confirm the damage had been caused by subsidence. This led to 
the stalemate, which began around mid 2019.
Aviva has now accepted the damage was caused by subsidence  largely based on the 
evidence it had available in early 2019. So I think its fair to say thats the time when it ought 
to have accepted the claim. It would then likely have asked to explore the settlement options, 
along similar lines to what its asking now  in summary, a visit to determine whether the 
damage can be repaired or if it must be reinstated, the corresponding cost(s) to Aviva, and 
whether it would settle the claim by cash payment.
But it was around this time when Mr A had been clear about the purpose of the visit he was 
prepared to agree to. And by August 2019, he proposed to settle the claim based on the cost 
of carrying out the work his surveyor recommended  as determined by his surveyor. He 
didnt offer Aviva the opportunity to visit and calculate its own costs of the surveyors 
recommendations at that time. So I think by late 2019, Mr As position was firmly that he 
didnt agree for Aviva to visit  or for Aviva to settle based on its own costs. Whilst there has 
been a great deal of discussion and correspondence since that time, Mr As position has 
broadly remained the same, up to and including his response to my provisional decision 
when he suggested Aviva settle based on his quotes for the work recommended by his 
surveyor.
I know Mr A feels very strongly that hes been treated unfairly by Aviva. And that the way its 
acted is the sole cause of the severe delay in settling this claim. Hes said his position about 
a visit changed over time because of a sense of caution in response to the way Aviva and 
Company S were acting. Ive thought about this point, but Im not persuaded it would be fair 
to hold Aviva responsible for Mr As position about the scope of a visit. He was clear from 
early in the claim that the scope of a visit should be limited to Aviva costing his surveyors recommendations. His position was firmly that Aviva had given him the impression his claim 
would be accepted, and settled, based on his surveyors report. I havent seen anything to 
persuade me he was open to Aviva visiting to consider whether it could indemnify him in any 
way other than that set out by his surveyor, for example by carrying out a repair.
Whilst I agree Aviva caused delays initially by not accepting the claim, the evidence 
available doesnt persuade me that even if Aviva had accepted the claim promptly, the claim 
is likely to have progressed significantly quicker. Instead, Im satisfied the evidence shows 
the argument would likely have moved on from whether the claim should be accepted to how 
it should be settled  and a stalemate would have continued because Mr A and Aviva had 
fundamentally different views on settlement. Given Ive found it is, and would have been, 
reasonable for Aviva to visit to fully explore the settlement options and costs  not limited to 
the recommendations of Mr As surveyor  Im not satisfied it would be fair to hold Aviva 
responsible for any delays flowing from this difference of opinion about settlement.
Ive thought again about the mistakes Aviva has made, including its contribution to the 
overall delay. Ive taken into account the impact of those mistakes, which I set out in my 
provisional decision above, our approach to compensation awards at this Service, and other 
relevant material. That includes the section of the Insurance Act 2015 Mr A has pointed to, 
which in summary, requires an insurer to pay a claim in a reasonable period of time, bearing 
in mind the relevant circumstances of the claim.
Having done so, I remain satisfied that an additional £500  making £900 in total  is fair and 
reasonable. I consider £500 to be proportionate to the distress, inconvenience and upset 
caused by Avivas failings during this claim.
Interest
Lastly, Mr A has asked whether interest should be added to my award. Generally, the 
approach of this Service to awarding interest in buildings insurance is as follows:
If the claim is settled by the insurer carrying out a repair or reinstatement, interest 
isnt awarded.
If the claim is settled by the insurer paying cash, interest may be awarded depending 
on the particular circumstances of the claim.
This is because the purpose of awarding interest is usually to compensate a consumer for 
unfairly being without money they should have had at an earlier time.
In this case, Im not directing Aviva to make a cash payment toward a claim. Im directing it 
to take a number of steps, which may result in carrying out a repair, reinstatement, or 
making a cash payment.
If the claim were settled by a repair or reinstatement, Mr A wouldnt be receiving money  
and so he couldnt have been without it unfairly. So Im not persuaded it would be fair for 
Aviva to pay interest on the cost of the work. Any delay in receiving the repair or 
reinstatement caused by Aviva would more appropriately be compensated for based on the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A as a result of that delay. Ive made a finding on 
that in the compensation section above.
Even if the claim were settled by cash payment, I dont think it would be fair to require Aviva 
to pay interest over a significant period of time, when it isnt primarily responsible for the 
length of the claim. It would effectively penalise Aviva for delays outside of its control, which 
Im not satisfied would produce a fair and reasonable outcome. So, at most, I would only 
require it to pay interest for the period of delay it was responsible for.In this case, that period of delay is a number of months from late 2018 to mid 2019 as Ive 
set out above. At that time, even if Aviva had accepted the claim when it should have done, 
due to the disagreement about how to settle the claim, Aviva would have been unable to 
fairly settle the claim by cash. It wouldnt have been able to explore the range of settlement 
options, so it wouldnt have known what amount of money would fairly indemnify Mr A. Im 
not satisfied it would be fair in these circumstances to say that Aviva was responsible for the 
delay in making a cash payment, as it couldnt have made one in any event.
I also take into account that if the claim is settled by cash payment, the amount is likely to be 
significantly greater than whatever amount would have fairly indemnified Mr A around mid 
2019. Thats because of the significant increase of the cost of building work in the 
intervening years. Im not satisfied it would be fair to require Aviva to pay interest on a 
significantly greater settlement value than the one it would have settled the claim for, if it had 
been able to do so in mid 2019. Again, it would effectively penalise Aviva for delays outside 
of its control.
Taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied it would be fair to award interest to Mr A.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay an additional £500 compensation.
Accept the claim.
Settle the claim by taking the following steps:
oAviva must find three suitably qualified independent engineers and give a list 
to Mr A. All three engineers must have confirmed theyre independent and 
members of RICS or other relevant professional bodies.
oMr A should confirm to Aviva which one from this list he would agree to being 
appointed.
oThe engineer is to be appointed as a single joint expert to prepare a report on 
what settlement options are open to Aviva (in order to put Mr A back in the 
position he was in immediately before the subsidence damage occurred) 
including by visiting Mr As property.
oIn conjunction with the report, a fully scoped and costed schedule of works 
will be prepared by the engineer, or a contractor overseen by the engineer.
oWhen instructing the engineer, Aviva must send them copies of the policy 
document from the insured period in which the subsidence damage first 
occurred, any photographs it has received from Mr A, the two expert reports 
commissioned by Mr A, the NHBRC certificate, the three quotations obtained 
by Mr A and a copy of my decision.
oA copy of the instructions must be sent to Mr A at the same time. He should 
be given one opportunity to send the engineer anything else hed like 
considered.oThe engineer will report to both parties with a draft copy of their report and 
their fully scoped and costed schedule of works.
oThe parties will then have one opportunity to put questions to the independent 
engineer. After this has happened, the engineer will issue their final report to 
both parties.
oOn receipt of the report, Aviva must use it to decide how to settle the claim:
If Aviva offers to settle the claim by repair or reinstatement, Mr A can 
accept that, and Avivas contractors will carry out the work. It should 
be overseen by a suitably qualified engineer. A Certificate of Structural 
Adequacy should be issued on completion.
If Mr A doesnt accept Avivas offer to repair or reinstate, Aviva will 
settle the claim by cash payment, based on the cost it would incur if its 
contractors carried out the work.
If Aviva offers to settle the claim by cash payment, without offering to 
carry out the work, Aviva will settle based on the engineers costed 
schedule of work.
oAny settlement is subject to the principle of indemnity, and any policy 
excesses or limits that may apply.
oThe cost of the independent engineer is to be met in full by Aviva.
oAll of the above steps must be carried out in accordance with Avivas duties 
under ICOBS 8, including to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman