DRN-3975187
The complaint
S is unhappy how Barclays Bank Plc (Barclaycard) handled its request for help to recover 
money following the return of a faulty laptop.
S has been represented throughout this complaint by Ms S, its sole director. But for ease of 
reading, I will refer to S throughout this decision. 
What happened
S is a limited company, with Ms S as its sole director. In April 2020 S paid £1,010 for a 
laptop. It paid the merchant direct, who Ill refer to as P, using its business credit card. The 
laptop was delivered a week later.
On the day of delivery, S discovered the LAN port connection was broken. It reported this to 
P the same day and sent a photo to them by email. S has said that it put the laptop back in 
its original packaging at this point, and didnt use it, with the intention of returning it to P as 
soon as they were able to arrange collection and take returns.
It wasnt until January 2021 that P were able to arrange for the return of the laptop. S turned 
the laptop on prior to returning it and found it to be overheating and having a noisy fan. It 
included that in its summary to P and asked for a full refund. Having received the laptop 
back, P didnt give S a refund. 
Because of this, S got in contact with Barclaycard in February 2021. It enquired if the 
purchase and subsequent problems would be covered by the chargeback process. 
Barclaycard confirmed it would be and sent S the relevant forms to be completed. S 
completed them and returned them along with its supporting evidence. Barclaycard applied a 
temporary credit to Ss account for £1,010 while P were given time to consider the 
chargeback request. 
P defended the chargeback in March 2021. They said that they considered the additional 
damage to have been caused by S. They were prepared to offer S a partial refund, although 
they didnt confirm what they were offering at this stage. P also said they were happy to 
repair the original fault reported. Barclaycard sent Ps defence to S and told it to get in touch 
with P to discuss the resolution proposals being offered. They said that if S remained 
unhappy, it would need to provide additional information following any conversation it had 
with P. Barclaycard removed the temporary credit from Ss account. There followed several 
email exchanges between S and Barclaycard. S wanted to know more information about the 
chargeback process and why the temporary credit had been removed from its account. 
Barclaycard explained the chargeback process and rules were available online, and that 
they only had limited time to represent the chargeback, so urged S to get in touch with P. 
S complained to Barclaycard in early April 2021. Its complaint focused on five areas of 
concern. They were:
No transparency of the chargeback process.
No reason why the credit of £1,010 had been removed.
No clear guidance on what S was expected to provide as part of its dispute response.
Barclaycards disregard for the dispute response S did send; and
Barclaycards unreasonable demands and timeframes.
Barclaycard sent S their final response letter a few days later. In respect of the time S had 
spent dealing with the chargeback dispute and the emails exchanged with Barclaycard, they 
paid S £50. They said theyd explained the chargeback process to S previously, the 
temporary credit was removed because P had provided evidence to substantiate why they 
didnt believe a refund was due and the timeframes were set by the chargeback scheme 
owners, which in this case was Mastercard. They reiterated that S had to get in contact with 
P to discuss their offers for potential resolution and to see if either would be acceptable. If 
they werent, Barclaycard said S had to let them know and provide any further evidence. 
S brought its complaint to our service. The main points of its complaint were the same as 
had been raised to Barclaycard. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said the terms and 
conditions provided by P suggested that the chargeback would have been unsuccessful had 
Barclaycard taken it to arbitration. She also explained that a temporary credit is removed if 
the chargeback is unsuccessful and that raising a chargeback isnt a guarantee that it will be 
successful. She said she thought the £50 paid by Barclaycard for the frustration caused by 
the process was fair, and that S should contact P to discuss the options available now for 
repair or partial refund. 
S didnt accept this. It said that it didnt think the main points of its complaint had been 
addressed. It was unhappy that the relationship between S and P had been mentioned  S 
said its complaint was about the chargeback process and how Barclaycard had applied it. It 
reiterated the five areas of concern it had raised when raising the complaint with Barclaycard 
initially. It said P had the laptop and the money for it. 
As S didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 
3 February 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
S has provided a lot of information here. Id like to assure it that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been sent, although I havent commented on it all in this decision. I will be 
focussing on what I consider to be the key points of the complaint. 
S has explained that its complaint is about the chargeback process, and how Barclaycard 
have handled it. In its latest response to me, it has asked for four things that it would like my 
agreement on. I recognise Ms Ss strength of feeling about this case, on behalf of S, but Im 
not planning on asking Barclaycard to do anything further here. Ill explain why.Did Barclaycard provide a valid reason as to why the chargeback was removed?
S feels that Barclaycard have never explained why they removed the temporary credit of 
£1,010 from its account when the chargeback was defended by P. But in their email 
correspondence with S throughout March 2021, Im satisfied Barclaycard have explained 
why the credit had been removed. P provided evidence with their defence of the chargeback 
to explain why they didnt feel the chargeback was warranted. Barclaycards chargeback 
team considered this evidence and, based on what had been provided, didnt feel they could 
represent the chargeback without Ss response to it. As it was felt the chargeback, at that 
time, wouldnt succeed the temporary credit was re-debited from Ss account. The evidence 
was supplied to S to consider and respond to.
The evidence supplied by P contrasted with the evidence originally provided by S when the 
chargeback was raised and the temporary credit was applied to its account. P offered two 
potential opportunities for a resolution to the complaint within their defence, and for 
Barclaycard to contemplate representing the chargeback they required S to liaise with P 
about their potential resolution proposals, and this needed to be done by the deadline set by 
Barclaycard, in accordance with the chargeback scheme rules set by Mastercard. S didnt 
liaise with P about the resolution proposals or get back to Barclaycard with its thoughts on 
them, so the chargeback couldnt be taken any further.
Barclaycard didnt provide details of the chargeback process when requested.
I agree with S on this point. Barclaycard didnt send it the Mastercard chargeback scheme 
rules when S asked it to. However, it wasnt under any obligation to do so. A firm should 
have due regard for the information needs of its customer, but Im satisfied Barclaycard met 
this requirement in the correspondence it did send S. And as Barclaycard also explained to 
S that the card scheme rules are publicly available online, S could have accessed them if it 
needed to do so.
Did Barclaycard provide a valid reason for stopping the chargeback dispute?
Under Mastercards scheme rules, Barclaycard have 45 days to represent a chargeback to 
the merchant once its been defended. This was explained to S in the email correspondence 
during March 2021. Barclaycard also explained it in their final response letter to Ss 
complaint on 15 April 2021. They said that, without any documentation or explanation from S 
to show why the two proposed resolution offers werent acceptable by the specified date 
provided, they wouldnt be able to take the chargeback further. 
The chargeback scheme rules are administered by Mastercard, and Barclaycard have to 
adhere to them. As S hadnt spoken to P or explained to Barclaycard why Ps proposals 
werent going to be acceptable by the deadline given by the scheme rules, Barclaycard 
stopped the dispute at that point. Im satisfied that was a reasonable thing to do. 
Are Barclaycard responsible for the monies not being recovered?
S has been clear that it doesnt expect our service to express an opinion on the underlying 
claim over the laptops condition. But S can only reasonably expect to recover that value 
from Barclaycard if it represents a loss or a fair estimation of the inconvenience S was 
caused by the way in which Barclaycard handled the chargeback claim. As responsibility for 
the condition of the laptop hasnt been resolved, I cant properly say it represents a loss 
caused by Barclaycards actions.
Nor am I persuaded that the way Barclaycard handled things caused S inconvenience 
approaching the value of the laptop. There isnt an obligation on Barclaycard to raise a chargeback when a customer asks for one. But in this case, they did raise one for S. Im 
satisfied Barclaycard followed the chargeback process correctly, in line with the scheme 
rules set by Mastercard, and communicated any next steps clearly to S when appropriate. I 
know S doesnt believe this to be the case, and it may have a different opinion of what the 
chargeback scheme should do for it, but that doesnt mean Barclaycard have acted 
unreasonably throughout the process. 
Although primarily created to resolve settlement disputes, the chargeback scheme might, in 
limited circumstances, be used to try to resolve problems between customers and merchants 
without needing to resort to more formal resolution, such as court action. But its important to 
bear in mind that such schemes dont guarantee to resolve those problems. The merchant 
might be able to defend the chargeback, which isnt quite the same as defending the 
underlying claim. And it looks like thats whats happened here. Barclaycard have provided 
evidence to show it approached P with Ss grounds for chargeback, and that P responded to 
say it was willing to work with S to resolve the dispute. Under the card scheme rules, thats 
likely to be an acceptable response to the claim.
Barclaycard have paid S £50 for the frustration and time it spent dealing with the complaint. I 
think thats fair in the circumstances. There was a lot of communication and some potential 
misunderstandings while the chargeback was being considered and contested by S, but I 
think Barclaycard did all they should to try and help. 
My provisional decision is that Im not planning on asking Barclaycard to do anything more 
here.
Barclaycard didnt respond. S did. In summary it said that I hadnt given a reason why the 
temporary chargeback credit was removed. It went on to say it wanted the chargeback 
scheme rules to be provided as it had had some difficulty finding them online. S also 
provided an email confirming it had tried to speak to P to discuss what their offer of a partial 
refund would amount to. S has said that P werent willing to engage in any discussion about 
this and feels the email it has supplied is evidence of that. Finally, S said that it feels 
Barclaycard have made up the rules as they went and feels that only allowing S a detailed 
look at the chargeback rules will allow for a fair outcome to this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S has provided comment on the provisional decision and the reasons why it disagrees with 
it. It has also mentioned that there are other corrections within the decision. However, it 
hasnt explained what those corrections are in the given time to respond, or the extended 
time given to allow for a response. So, I have continued with my final decision based on the 
information S has provided. 
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
S has questioned the finding about the reason why the temporary credit was removed. My 
provisional decision explains in detail why Im satisfied the temporary credit was removed 
fairly by Barclaycard and the reason for the reversal of the credit. Ive no reason to reach a 
different conclusion. 
S has raised a number of questions around the provision of the chargeback rules. In 
particular, it has said that no-one has provided a copy of the rules to it. I reiterate that what Im deciding is whether Barclaycard had an obligation to provide the rules when asked. In my 
provisional decision I concluded that they didnt have this obligation. Ive seen nothing in Ss 
submissions that changes that conclusion. If S is having difficulty finding the rules online, it 
isnt our services responsibility to provide them. However, a search using an online search 
engine will locate the chargeback rules. 
In relation to Ss comments, my provisional decision outlines to S why Im satisfied 
Barclaycard did provide a valid reason as to why they stopped the chargeback process. And 
in my provisional decision I explained that Ps attempts to resolve the issues likely satisfied 
the chargeback scheme requirements. 
S disputes the finding regarding whether it responded to Barclaycard within the required 
period once it had seen Ps proposals for resolution. In support of its position S has provided 
an email exchange between it and P that S says shows P werent willing to discuss their 
previous proposals for a partial refund or repair of the original fault. 
The email exchange took place on 17 May 2021. This is outside of the 45-day time limit 
Barclaycard had explained S had to respond by to allow them to consider if the chargeback 
could be represented. Further, the email doesnt confirm that P arent prepared to discuss a 
partial refund or repair. It says that the person corresponding with S isnt the person that 
prepared the chargeback defence and, therefore, isnt able to discuss any proposals that 
were included in that defence. That isnt confirmation that P isnt prepared to offer a partial 
refund or repair as S is suggesting. So, whilst S may have responded to Barclaycard 
explaining why it disagreed with their decision to remove the temporary credit applied to its 
account within the timeframe, it didnt respond in the timeframe permitted to show that it had 
discussed Ps proposed resolutions with them and why they werent going to be acceptable 
following that conversation. Barclaycard made it clear to S that it needed to do that for them 
to consider if the chargeback process could continue. 
S says that Barclaycard obstructed the process and that is why the chargeback process and 
the time limits expired. However, I dont agree that is the case. Nothing S has provided in 
response to my provisional decision leads me to change my thoughts on this. Overall Im 
looking at whether Barclaycard have treated S fairly. For the reasons explained in my 
provisional decision, and within this decision, Im satisfied that they have.
My decision is that Barclaycard dont need to do anything further for S in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman