DRN-3735508
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) terminated the 
hire purchase agreement he had with them. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr N was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. Mr N paid an advance payment of £1 and the agreement was for £24,450 over 49 
months; with 48 monthly payments of £460.23 and a final payment of £10,355 if Mr N 
wanted to keep the car. 
Mr Ns income was affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and, on 8 April 2020, 
he contacted VWFS for assistance. On 27 April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority put 
guidance in place for customers like Mr N, allowing VWFS to offer a payment deferral, 
otherwise known as a payment holiday. Following this, VWFS asked Mr N to visit their 
website and apply for a payment deferral. Which he did on 6 May 2020.
VWFS approved the payment deferral. However, Mr N couldnt recommence payments after 
it ended, and his account went into arrears. And, in April 2021 Mr N told VWFS that he would 
be able to start making payments again in July 2021, but he wouldnt be able to pay anything 
extra towards the arrears.
VWFS explained that they couldnt add the arrears to the end of the term, and they told him 
that his account was at risk of being defaulted and terminated. Mr N provided his income and 
expenditure details and, as a result, a three-month payment arrangement was put in place in 
June 2021. VWFS also wrote off the arrears over six months old, due to the delays in them 
dealing with his payment deferral request.
A further payment arrangement was put in place in September 2021, with Mr N paying an 
additional £50 a month until August 2022. VWFS also advised him that, if he failed to 
maintain the arrangement, then he was at risk of the agreement being defaulted and 
terminated. However, Mr N didnt maintain the payment arrangement and VWFS issued a 
default notice. Mr N didnt respond to this, so VWFS defaulted and terminated the agreement 
in April 2022.
Mr N complained to VWFS that the agreement had been terminated. But VWFS didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. Mr N wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us 
for investigation.
Our investigator said that Mr N was in arrears by nearly £4,000, which was a breach of the 
agreement. She also said that Mr N failed to keep to a payment arrangement, and VWFS 
sent him a default notice, asking him to repay the arrears, otherwise the agreement would be 
terminated. And, because Mr N didnt clear the arrears, she thought VWFS had acted 
reasonably by terminating the agreement.
The investigator also said VWFS had an obligation to correctly report the status of Mr Ns 
account to the credit reference agencies. And they hadnt done anything wrong by doing so.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigator. And hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr N was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
It's not disputed that Mr N was in arrears with VWFS, or the reason for these arrears. 
However, based on what Ive seen, Mr N is disputing that he failed to maintain the agreed 
payment arrangement. And, as such, VWFS acted unfairly by terminating the agreement.
Ive seen that Mr N started paying VWFS his normal payment plus £50 in October 2021, and 
this arrangement was maintained until January 2022. However, the direct debit for the 
February 2022 payment failed. And, while Mr N made a manual payment for the normal 
monthly payment on 12 February 2022, he didnt pay the additional £50. Because of this, Im 
satisfied that he failed to keep to the agreed payment arrangement.
VWFS first sent Mr N a default notice in June 2021, advising him that, if he didnt come to an 
arrangement to repay the arrears, the agreement could be terminated and a default 
registered. Similar warnings about default and termination were given to Mr N in phone 
conversations and emails when he set up the £50 a month payment arrangement.
In letters dated 14 September and 15 October 2021, VWFS confirmed the £50 a month 
payment arrangement to Mr N. And, in a letter dated 11 February 2022, VWFS told Mr N that 
hed broken this payment arrangement as the last payment had been missed. The day after 
this letter was sent, Mr N paid the missed normal monthly payment, but not the missed £50 
payment. VWFS followed this up with another letter, dated 24 February 2022, asking Mr N to 
bring his account up to date to avoid a default notice being issued which may end in 
termination of your agreement. And a default notice was issued the same day.
Based on what Ive seen, letters VWFS sent Mr N in late 2021 were returned. Which would 
indicate that he was no longer at the address hed originally given them. As such, even 
though Mr N seemingly took action after the letter of 11 February 2022 was sent to him, I 
cant be satisfied that Mr N received any/all of the letters referred to above. 
VWFS had a legal obligation to provide the default notice in writing. However, given that 
letters had been returned, Ive also seen that they tried to phone Mr N to discuss this 
situation on 24 February 2022. And, in an email the same day asking Mr N to contact them, 
VWFS also confirmed please note you have been issued with a default notice. This 
provides you with 19 days to pay your arrears in full or we will terminate the agreement 
recover the vehicle and a default will register on your credit file.Given that, both before and after these letters were sent, VWFS successfully corresponded 
with Mr N on the email address hed given, Im satisfied that VWFS took reasonable steps to 
advise Mr N of what was happening. And, by making the missed normal monthly payment in 
February 2020, Im also satisfied that Mr N was reasonably aware that payments had been 
missed before VWFS emailed him about the default and termination.
As such, Im satisfied that VWFS acted reasonably by defaulting and terminating Mr Ns 
agreement due to the ongoing arrears situation, and the broken payment arrangement. And, 
while I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr N, I wont be asking them to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman