DRN-3809619
The complaint
Mrs F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has declined to refund the money she 
lost when she fell victim in 2017 to what now appears an investment scam.
She brings her complaint with the assistance of professional representation, but for 
readability, in what follows I will refer solely to Mrs F.
What happened
In 2017, Mrs F received details of a mini-bond issued by a property redevelopment 
company. These were sent by a company claiming to be an investment broker. Mrs F was 
contacted about this by someone who said they were an investment consultant.
The mini-bond offered an interest payment of up to 9% per year for a term of two years. The 
information she was given said this investment was supporting government policy aimed at 
the provision of social housing for vulnerable groups.
Mrs F explains that she carried out her own research before proceeding. She was reassured 
by promises in the professional looking sales literature saying that capital invested would be 
asset backed - secured against property purchased for redevelopment. The investment was 
said to be covered by an independent security trustee which would monitor asset values 
against liabilities and ensure funds were used appropriately. Mrs F noted that the financial 
promotion appeared to be approved by an FCA regulated firm (which I will refer to as C). 
Ultimately, Mrs F explains she was confident this was a secure investment.
Mrs F invested the sum of £10,000. Using her online banking, she sent this payment by bank 
transfer from her NatWest account to an account held by C. It appears C was acting as the 
administrator of the mini-bond investments.
Initially, Mrs F received the anticipated interest payments. But in the final year of the bond, 
she didnt receive the interest due, and didnt receive back her capital as shed expected.
She has since learned that a director of the property redevelopment company has been 
arrested and is the subject of ongoing Police investigation. She understands investors funds 
were alleged to have been used improperly to pay for the directors personal expenditure 
rather than the described purpose of redevelopment. The Police suggested she should let 
her bank know what had happened.
Mrs F duly reported the matter to NatWest in June 2022, saying she had been the victim of a 
scam.
NatWest thought this wasnt a scam because Mrs F had received some money back in the 
form of (supposed) interest payments. It said it would not raise a scam claim for her. In 
essence the bank thought this was simply a poorly performing investment rather than a 
scam.
NatWest has since said that, in any event, it does not think it is liable for any losses because 
Mrs F had unwittingly authorised the payment, and it did not have any reason to intervene or 
block Mrs Fs payment request. 
After Mrs F reported her loss to NatWest, C was subsequently declared in default by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). But shortly afterward the FSCS said 
that, based on the information available to it at the time, claims against C in respect of this 
specific bond remained ineligible for compensation from the fund.
Left with a significant financial loss, Mrs F complained to NatWest. NatWest maintained its 
position.
Our Investigator thought that NatWest wasnt liable to reimburse Mrs F for her losses. She 
said that even though this appeared the investment appeared not have been legitimate, the 
bank had acted correctly in allowing Mrs F to make the transfer when shed requested it. The 
payment had not been unusual in comparison to Mrs Fs usual account activity. There was 
no other reason for NatWest to prevent the payment, and hence prevent the resulting loss.
Mrs F didnt accept the Investigators findings. She said in summary:
this had been a scam - contrary to NatWests initial suggestion;
shed been the victim of other similar scams;
NatWest should readily have identified that a director of the property company 
issuing the bond had a prior criminal conviction; and,
NatWest hadnt provided any scam warnings at the time - if shed been advised this 
could possibly be a scam then shed have carried out further investigations and so 
uncovered that this payment was not one she should make.
I have been asked to make a final decision on her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
time. 
Im sorry to hear that Mrs F has lost money to this scheme, and the circumstances 
surrounding that. But I dont think NatWest has made a mistake by declining to refund her 
this money. Ill explain why.
While the investment in question appears still to be the subject of ongoing Police 
investigation, I consider that, based on what Mrs F has submitted, there is a weight of 
evidence to suggest that her funds were not invested for legitimate purposes or in line with 
what she believed at the time. I do not agree with NatWest that the receipt of payments from 
an investment proves necessarily proves legitimacy  on the contrary this would equally be a 
feature of numerous fraudulent schemes where the intent is to induce further investment.
But even if it is subsequently determined beyond any reasonable doubt that this was a scam 
rather than a legitimate investment, it does not necessarily follow that NatWest should be held liable for the loss Mrs F suffered.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. Mrs F had taken the necessary 
steps to authorise NatWest to make the payment  this was an authorised payment.
In other words, at the time Mrs F sent this money, she authorised the payment and wanted it 
to be made. So, although Mrs F clearly did not intend the money to go to a scammer, under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (applicable at the time), and the terms and 
conditions of bank accounts, Mrs F is presumed liable for any resultant losses in the first 
instance.
However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank also has a duty 
to take reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams.
In particular, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice NatWest should have been 
looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of character or 
unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial detriment to its 
customer through fraud or a scam. 
With all of the above in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether the available evidence 
demonstrates that NatWest ought to have done more here, in these specific circumstances.
NatWest didnt flag this payment as suspicious at the time. Mrs F argues that it should have - 
and further that had NatWest done so, this would have led to the payment not being made.
Its not clear to me that this payment would have stood out sufficiently from Mrs Fs prior 
usage of the account to reasonably have prompted NatWest to take further action. Her 
account history shows that the amount was not unusual - for instance shed made a previous 
payment of the same size within the previous six months. The destination account would not 
necessarily have appeared concerning either. It was held with a UK bank, and by a firm 
regulated by the FCA at that time. 
All else considered, Im not persuaded that there was enough here for me to find NatWest at 
fault for carrying out Mrs Fs payment instruction in line with its primary obligation to do so. 
But even if I had found to the contrary that NatWest should have had concerns about this 
payment, I dont think this would have made a difference to the outcome.
Again, at the time, Mrs Fs payment was being sent to an account held by an FCA regulated 
firm. I dont consider this would reasonably have led NatWest to have concerns about the 
payee. NatWest could not provide Mrs F with what might be construed as financial advice 
about the suitability of her proposed investment  given she had not asked the bank to do 
so. And I cannot reasonably expect that NatWest to have carried out the due diligence Mrs F 
suggests it ought to have done into the underlying property company or the company 
directors identity  this was not an investment it was recommending.
Overall, I dont think proportionate questioning or investigation by NatWest would have made 
a difference here  I dont believe it would have had the effect of stopping Mrs F from making 
the payment.
Given I have found that the transaction, on the face of it, would not have appeared unusual 
or of concern, the bank had no specific obligations requiring it to provide a scam warning (whether a general warning or one specific to this payment) at the time and in these 
circumstances. 
In any event, Mrs Fs own testimony is that shed already carried out research of her own 
accord prior to making this investment  she was confident this was a secure investment. In 
that light, I think it unlikely a general warning about fraud and scams given by NatWest at the 
time would have prompted her to do more than she already had. So again, Im not convinced 
this would have stopped Mrs F from making the payment. The rate she was being offered 
was attractive, and concerns about the usage of investors funds appear to have only arisen 
later. Having confidence in what shed already researched, on balance, I think it most likely 
she would still have proceeded.
While NatWest didnt initially log Mrs Fs case as a scam claim, even had it acted sooner 
there was no prospect of recovering funds from the recipient account by that point  nearly 
five years having elapsed since Mrs Fs payment had been made. Her funds were no longer 
there by the time the scam was reported.
Having carefully considered everything Mrs F and NatWest have submitted, I dont find 
NatWest could have reasonably prevented Mrs Fs loss here. Neither do I find it at fault 
otherwise. I appreciate this will not be the answer Mrs F would like me to give her, and I am 
sorry to have to disappoint her. She has lost a significant sum here. But it is simply the case 
that I dont consider I can fairly and reasonably hold NatWest liable for that loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint 
about National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman