DRN-1640446
 
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly declined her income 
protection claim.  
What happened
Mrs O was a member of her employers group income protection scheme. The policy was 
provided by Aviva, and was designed to pay a proportion of Mrs Os income in the event that 
illness or injury prevented her from working. 
In 2018, Mrs O became absent from work. She went on to be diagnosed with 
Myalgic Encephalomyelitis, also known as ME or chronic fatigue syndrome. And a claim was 
made under her employers income protection scheme.
As part of assessing Mrs Os claim, Aviva asked her to attend an Independent Medical 
Examination (IME). The examination took place in March 2019 with a Consultant 
Occupational Physician, and based on what Mrs Os reported she was deemed unfit for 
work.
Aviva had concerns about the level of functioning that Mrs O had reported though, and 
carried out a period of covert surveillance. The footage gained during this time was shown to 
the Consultant Occupational Physician, who said that Mrs Os activities within the footage 
were inconsistent with those reported during her IME. So the Consultant altered their 
findings, and said they now considered Mrs O to be fit to return to work. 
Based on the consultants conclusions, Aviva declined Mrs Os claim. They also said they 
intended to remove her from cover because their policy terms set out that cover would be 
terminated where misleading, incorrect, or incomplete information had been supplied. 
Mrs O complained about the decision to decline her claim. But Aviva maintained their 
position, so Mrs O brought her complaint here and said her claim had been declined unfairly. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but based on the available 
evidence they didn't think Aviva had acted unreasonably in declining Mrs Os claim. 
Mrs O disagreed. She said the surveillance footage wasn't representative of how her 
illnesses affected her on a day to day basis. So, as no agreement was reached the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I can see that Mrs O 
feels very strongly about her position. In considering Mrs Os complaint, my decision will only focus on those matters I consider 
central to its outcome. That means I wont address every point or argument thats been 
raised, and I trust Mrs O wont take that as a matter of discourtesy. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines require Aviva to handle claims both promptly and 
fairly, and not reject them unreasonably. 
Mrs Os policy sets out that benefit may be paid if a member is totally incapacitated. And 
incapacitated is defined as follows: 
Incapacity or incapacitated shall mean that a member is incapacitated, by reason of illness 
or injury, when the insurer is satisfied that the employee is incapable of performing the 
material and substantial duties of his or her own occupation and is not following any other 
occupation.
So in this complaint, it wouldn't be enough for the available evidence to show that Mrs O was 
unwell. It would need to show that she was incapable of performing the material and 
substantial duties of her occupation in line with the definition cited above.
In June 2018, an Occupational Health (OH) report was produced for Mrs Os employer. It 
said that:
with ongoing symptoms and a lack of diagnosis, (Mrs O) in my opinion remains unfit for 
work for the foreseeable future. 
But the report appears to have been based on Mrs Os self-reported symptoms and levels of 
functionality. So I dont think that, in itself, is enough to demonstrate Mrs O was incapable of 
performing the material and substantial duties of her occupation. 
When Mrs O underwent her IME with a Consultant Occupational Physician in March 2019, 
her GP records, hospital correspondence and OH report were made available to the 
Consultant. During that examination, Mrs O set out what her illness prevented her from 
doing. I wont repeat all of that here, but I note Mrs O described being unable to do things 
such as; manage the stairs to her home; tolerate exposure to light and sound; walk outside 
and generally take care of herself/her home. 
Within the IME report, the Consultant Occupational Physician said:
Mrs O appears to be functionally severely limited in her daily activities by subjective 
symptoms. She has no evidence of any physical disease and no objective evidence of 
impairment of mobility, strength or cognition. She gives a history of significant anxiety and 
depression. If her function is as limited as she states, then I do not believe she would be 
able to tolerate returning to work in any capacity.
The covert surveillance that was carried out following Mrs Os IME contradicted what Mrs O 
had previously said. Mrs O has said that this footage isn't representative of how her illness 
affected her on a day to day basis. But the footage obtained was captured over a number of 
days, and not just at one given time. The footage also appears to show Mrs O participating 
in a number of activities that shed previously said she was unable to, and on more than one 
occasion. So it doesn't seem unreasonable for Aviva to have found this concerning.
The Consultant Occupational Physician who completed Mrs Os IME was given the 
opportunity to view the footage, and in a supplementary report of June 2019 went on to say:Having perused the video carefully, I belive that I must amend my opinion and now place 
reliance only upon the objective clinical findings. 
The Consultant commented at length on the inconsistencies between the footage obtained 
of Mrs O, and what Mrs O presented during the IME. They concluded that Mrs O had, no 
overt abnormalities of her musculoskeletal system, she is able to talk rapidly and coherently 
and respond at a normal pace to questions [] She is objectively able to bend and stretch 
[] she is able to tolerate light and sound. 
The consultant also said they could give no weight to PHQ9 or GAD7 scores as these are 
self-reported measures so are not objective, and given the extent of the discrepancies in her 
oral testimony to me, I do not consider these to be reliable. 
They also said:
In my opinion, following careful examination of the surveillance images, and considering 
only the objectively verifiable findings of the clinical assessment, (Mrs Os) function appears 
to be compatible with her working in her normal occupation in a full-time manner as I cannot 
find objective abnormalities of any specific medical condition. 
I think it was reasonable for Aviva to take the above findings into account when considering 
Mrs Os ability to work.
I note that Mrs O underwent an OH assessment in September 2019 which said:
This ladys account of symptomatology and the development and persistence of symptoms 
is consistent with a diagnosis of fibromyalgia/CFS. The term ME is now falling into disfavour, 
although represents the same cluster of conditionsShe is engaged with treatment but 
remains highly symptomatic and unfit to engage in work
But the OH report appears to have been based on Mrs Os reported symptoms. It was 
completed over the phone, and I cant see that the OH assessor had any of the wider 
evidence relating to Mrs O, for example her GP records, the surveillance footage or the IME 
findings. 
I accept that Mrs O was signed off work for a period of time. And I am aware shes told this 
service that shes in receipt of different government benefits in relation to her health. She 
has also provided evidence from her GP in support of a housing move, and has said that she 
now has access to a wheelchair. 
But while I understand Mrs O thinks the above should support her position of being 
incapacitated, the matter Im deciding in this case is whether Aviva acted reasonably in 
declining Mrs Os claim taking into account the terms of her policy.
Mrs Os policy sets out a specific definition for incapacitated, which says it shall mean that 
a member is incapacitated, by reason of illness or injury, when the insurer is satisfied that 
the employee is incapable of performing the material and substantial duties of his or her own 
occupation and is not following any other occupation.
As set out, Ive not directly referenced every piece of evidence thats been made available in 
this case. But I accept that Mrs O has had difficulties with her health and that this may be a 
challenging time for her.
From the evidence provided, Im not persuaded that Mrs O has demonstrated an illness or 
injury has rendered her incapable of performing the material and substantial duties of her occupation. And, in all the circumstances, I dont think Aviva have acted unreasonably in 
declining this claim. 
So I wont be upholding Mrs Os complaint. And I wont be asking Aviva to do anything 
further.  
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman