DRN-2910394
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way TSB Bank plc handled a disputed payment on his credit card. 
  
What happened
In June 2020 Mr M used his credit card to make an online purchase, covering two items. The 
merchant took one payment to cover both items. 
Around two weeks later, Mr M contacted TSB and said he didnt recognise the payment. 
TSB refunded the payment and contacted the merchant and said it hadnt been authorised 
by Mr M. 
In August 2020 Mr M contacted TSB and explained hed made a mistake. The payment was 
genuine and Mr M asked TSB to process it again. Mr M later made a faster payment to his 
TSB credit card to cover the amount it re-debited. TSB says it sent the payment back to the 
merchant in August 2020, after Mr M confirmed it was genuine. 
Mr M has explained the merchant has blocked his account and advised the payment TSB 
says it sent back hasnt been received. 
Mr M complained and TSB offered him a total of £33 to cover his costs and £25 apologise 
for some of the service provided. Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was 
passed to an investigator. They thought TSB had tried to send the payment back to the 
merchant but said it should refund it to Mr M so he could resolve the situation directly. The 
investigator also thought TSB should pay Mr M an additional £75 to reflect poor service he 
received. 
TSB asked to appeal and said its fraud department had reversed the refund in August 2020. 
But TSB couldnt provide any evidence to show the payment had debited again because of 
the length of time that had passed. As TSB asked to appeal, Mr Ms complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M made a genuine error in June 2020 and later, in August 2020, tried to correct 
the position by asking TSB to re-debit his credit card and make the payment again. TSB has 
queried why it took that long for Mr M to realise the issue, but hes explained he contacted 
the bank again after the merchant got in touch and blocked his account. 
I have some sympathy for Mr M as hes somewhat caught between two businesses. TSB 
has told Mr M to take the missing payment up with the merchant as it sent the funds back in 
August 2020. The issue I have is that TSB has provided no evidence it returned the payment 
to the merchant in August 2020. TSB says that the system it used only retains information 
for 120 days, but Mr M was actively complaining about the way his payments had been 
handled within that timeframe. So TSB couldve retained evidence to support its claims. 
My concern is that Mr M has been left without sufficient evidence or information to help him 
locate the missing funds with the merchant. If TSB cant give Mr M or this service evidence 
to show the payment was returned, its unlikely he will be able to locate it with the merchant 
or resolve the situation. I agree with the investigator that the fairest approach is for TSB to 
refund the payment to Mr M so his account access issues with the merchant directly. TSB 
can then seek to reclaim the payment it says was sent back to the merchant in August 2020. 
Ive looked at the level of contact Mr M received and listened to all the available calls. I agree 
with the investigator that the current settlement of £33 costs plus £25 for the trouble and 
upset caused isnt fair. In my view, an increase in the award to £33 costs, plus a total of 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused is a fairer reflection of how the issues raised 
impacted Mr M. So Im going to endorse the investigators recommendations on how to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr M £336.73 plus 
a total of £133 (less any compensation already paid) for his costs and the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman