DRN-3280341
The complaint
Miss O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (First Direct) failed to refund transactions that she 
didnt recognise.
What happened
Miss O made a regular monthly payment to her partner. In February 2021 a new payee was 
set up on Miss Os account with a reference similar to the one she used for her partner. A 
small payment was sent to the new account and following this, payments were made over 
the next four months to the account until Miss Os partner realised he hadnt received the 
transfers. 
Five transfers were made totalling over £4,000. Miss O contacted First Direct about them 
and believed that First Direct had made an error and asked for a refund of these payments. 
First Direct contacted the beneficiary bank about the payments and they returned £1,150.
Miss O complained to First Direct about the lost funds and told them she didnt set up the 
new payee or make the first payment. Miss O continued to believe that the mistake was 
because First Direct mishandled the transfers. First Direct looked into Miss Os complaint but 
didnt change their position. They believed Miss O had authorised the transactions herself 
and because they hadnt made any errors, they werent responsible for refunding Miss O.
Miss O disagreed with the outcome and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked 
both parties for information about the complaint. Miss O explained that she hadnt set up the 
new account and wasnt responsible for adding the new payee.
First Direct supplied information about how the transactions were created. Their records 
indicated that Miss Os mobile phone was used to set up the payment and was the same 
device used to manually make all the other payments. First Direct advised that Miss Os 
device contained their Secure Digital Key which was necessary to enable the account to be 
operated and that no other devices were registered using the account.
First Direct reported that once they received Miss Os claim about the payments, they 
contacted the beneficiary bank to reclaim any remaining funds.
Our investigator issued two reports, one concerning the actions of First Direct when they 
retrieved the remaining funds from the beneficiary bank and a second report dealing with the 
authorisation of the payments. Our investigator believed that Miss O had authorised the 
payments herself and First Direct had acted reasonably when they attempted to retrieve the 
payments. Miss Os complaint wasnt upheld.
Miss O disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of her complaint, 
commenting that the issue was that the beneficiary account details were changed without 
her permission, rather than the authorisation process.
Miss Os complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. Miss O was able to clarify 
that she hadnt authorised the initial payment or set up the new payee details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to this complaint, one being the question of whether Miss O set up 
and authorised the first payment  referred to as a disputed transaction and what First Direct 
did when they were notified about the payments made to the new account. 
Disputed transaction
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that First Direct can hold Miss O liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
First Direct can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss O 
authorised the transactions, but First Direct cannot say that the use of the internet banking 
mobile app conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless First Direct can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Os account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss O. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss O responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Miss O is adamant that she wasnt involved in setting up the first payment, she believes it 
was an error by First Direct that caused the account details to be changed. The remaining 
payments were then made without realising they were going to a different account. There 
were five payments made over a period of four months before it was noticed by Miss Os 
partner that he hadnt received these funds.
When a First Direct customer uses their mobile banking, it registers various pieces of data 
about the activity including an ID number that is unique to each device. The technical 
evidence provided by First Direct shows that Miss O had a regular device (mobile phone) 
that she used for her mobile banking - identified by a unique number. That device contained 
the Secure Digital Key issued by First Direct and is a necessary part of accessing Miss Os 
account and to set up new payees and authenticate transactions. 
Records show the same device was used throughout the period in question to perform 
various banking activities that havent been disputed. Miss Os device is shown to have been 
used to set up the new payee, including, in February, to make the initial payment. In order to 
do that, various pieces of private security information are required to complete the process 
and Miss O has been able to say that she hadnt given anyone else access to the device or 
told anyone the security information required to access the banking app.
When Ive examined the information about the payment, the details of the payee have been 
changed from Mr partners name to  For partners name. This would seem to indicate that 
the payment had been sent to someone on behalf of Miss Os partner.  
I understand Miss O is adamant that she didnt set the payment up, but the audit data 
indicates it was her device, with the secure key that was used to set up and make the first 
and subsequent payments. Theres no evidence that suggests the payment was created anywhere else but from Miss Os device. It seems unlikely that someone unknown to Miss O 
could gain access to her phone, obtain the necessary security information to access the 
phone and her banking app, before setting up a payment in the name of her partner. So, 
whilst I appreciate Miss O will disagree with me, the evidence shows it was more likely than 
not Miss O who authorised the disputed transaction.
Payments in error 
The issue of authorisation doesnt need to be considered for the remaining payments as they 
were authorised by Miss O  but in error. What that means here is that instructions were 
given through her banking app to First Direct to send the payments to the newly created 
account. First Direct were acting on those instructions when they sent the payments to the 
other account. First Direct werent aware that the payments were being sent in error until 
Miss O told them about the problem.
First Direct then contacted the receiving bank about the payments and asked for them to be 
returned due to the error. Thats what Id expect a bank to do in these circumstances and the 
receiving bank sent back a portion of the funds which were paid back to Miss O. 
As far as Im aware, the remaining funds havent been returned to Miss O. Once the funds 
leave Miss Os account and are received into the other account, this limits the options for 
retrieval that First Direct can undertake. But, First Direct should, if they havent already, 
inform Miss O of her options that she can pursue for the return of her funds. 
Summary
Overall, the evidence that Ive considered shows Miss Os device was used to set up the 
new account and the first payment. It doesnt seem likely that an unauthorised third party 
could gain access to Miss Os phone and have the knowledge of the various security 
information required to open both it and the banking app. The subsequent payments were 
then made to the new account and once First Direct were told about them, they acted to 
retrieve them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman