DRN-2616279
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined her claim 
and cancelled her contents insurance policy.
What happened
Miss O had contents insurance with Lloyds. She called to ask whether her mobile phone was 
covered under the policy for accidental damage because it wasnt functioning properly. 
Lloyds said it wasnt covered so Miss O added the cover that same day for any future issues.
Four weeks later, Miss O claimed under her policy for accidental damage to the screen when 
she dropped her mobile phone. At the same time, she claimed for accidental damage to both 
of her childrens phones. 
Lloyds thought that Miss O had knowingly supplied false information when she bought the 
additional cover because the damage she later claimed for was the same as shed told 
Lloyds about during her original claim. It declined the claim and cancelled the policy.
Miss O complained to Lloyds because she said shed only made an enquiry about her phone 
when she bought the policy. Miss O was also unhappy that it recorded her cancelled policy 
on an insurance database. Lloyds maintained its decision and confirmed it had cancelled her 
policy.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong because the evidence 
indicated that Miss O had provided Lloyds with inaccurate information when she took out the 
new cover.
Miss O didnt agree. She provided a statement from a friend who had taken her phone for 
repair before she took out the cover, and a further statement from the phone repair shop.   
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Os complaint, and Ill explain why.
There are two issues here:
whether it was fair for Lloyds to decline Miss Os claim under the accidental damage 
cover, and
whether it was fair to cancel her policy and record that outcome on her file. 
Declined claim
Ive listened to the call recordings from when Miss O first spoke with Lloyds about her cover; 
when she added the accidental damage cover, and when she made her claim. Its clear in 
the first call that Miss O was making an enquiry to begin with because she asked what shed 
be able to claim for after a claim-free period. But the call progressed as a claim because 
Miss O specifically asked whether damage to her mobile phone would be covered and told 
Lloyds she dropped her phone onto the kitchen floor after it stopped working while she was 
using it. Miss O stated on the call that it cracked. Lloyds explained she didnt have cover for 
the damage and transferred her to the relevant department to discuss adding accidental 
damage to her policy.
Its worth noting here that during the call to add accidental damage to her policy, Miss O told 
Lloyds shed already tried to claim for her phone but found it wasnt covered. She said both 
she and her children had expensive phones, which was why she wanted to add it. So its 
reasonable to say that Miss O made a claim before adding cover because thats what she 
told Lloyds.
Four weeks after adding the extra cover, Miss O made a claim under her policy explaining 
that shed dropped her phone in the garden while using it and the screen cracked. At the 
same time, she claimed for both of her childrens phones  one dropped the phone on the 
kitchen floor and the other dropped the phone in the garden. All three claims were for 
damaged screens. 
Lloyds declined the claims because Miss O was claiming for damage to her phone which 
was already present when she took out the extra cover. Miss O says the damage isnt the 
same.
The evidence persuades me that it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim. Thats 
because Miss O reported that the phone was cracked when she first contacted Lloyds, 
before she took out additional cover.
Although Miss O provided evidence in response to our view, I think it further supports 
Lloydss decision. She provided:
a statement written by her friend in support of her complaint which confirms that the 
screen was cracked when it first went for a software repair four weeks before her 
claim, and
a statement from the phone repairer confirming that the screen was cracked when 
Miss Os friend took the phone in for repair, and it was returned to her in the same 
state.
Im satisfied that Miss Os evidence and the call recordings Lloyds provided confirm that 
Miss Os screen was cracked four weeks before she took out accidental damage cover. 
Therefore, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline her claim.
Cancelled policy
Miss O is unhappy that Lloyds cancelled her policy and recorded the cancellation against an 
insurance database. She wants it to remove the record.
Miss Os policy states:
The contract between you and us is based on mutual trust and we rely on the honesty of 
our policyholders. If you or anyone acting for you knowingly or recklessly: 
provides information to us that is not true in order to obtain cover or cover at a lower 
premium or on better terms; or 
provides information or documentation to us that is fraudulent or dishonestly 
exaggerates a claim; or 
otherwise acts or behaves fraudulently in relation to your policy; then cover under the policy will end from the date of the fraudulent act and we: 
will not pay any part of a fraudulent or exaggerated claim; 
will not pay any claims arising after the date of the fraudulent act; 
will retain any premium you have paid; 
may recover any payments made to you or on your behalf and any costs and 
expenses incurred in respect of a fraudulent claim, whether these payments were 
made or costs and expenses incurred before or after the fraudulent act; 
may recover any payments made to you or on your behalf for any other claims 
arising after the fraudulent act.
Firstly, I need to be clear about what my remit is here. I am not deciding whether Miss O 
deliberately provided false information to Lloyds. Im deciding whether Lloyds acted fairly 
and reasonably when it cancelled Miss Os policy for the reason it gave.
Lloyds cancelled Miss Os policy because shed made a claim under her policy for damage 
which was already present when she took out the accidental damage cover. While Miss O 
says her claim was for different damage, I can see why Lloyds didnt agree. It had two call 
recordings in which Miss O confirmed her phone screen was cracked, both of which were 
four weeks before she claimed under the policy. And at no point did she provide any 
evidence to show that the screen was repaired and then cracked again.
So, while I can understand that Miss O is unhappy Lloyds cancelled her policy and recorded 
its actions on her file, I think it acted fairly and in line with the policys general conditions. I 
see no reason to ask Lloyds to remove its record of her policy cancellation or deal with the 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman