The complaint
Mr S complained that Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In June 2001 Mr S took out a credit card with Capital One and at the same time he took out 
a PPI policy to protect his repayments. 
When Mr S complained to Capital One that the policy was mis-sold it didnt agree. 
Capital One also considered if any excess commissions and profit share, which was part of 
the premiums, should be refunded. It has said that there was some excess commission and 
has calculated and offered total compensation of £861.39 after tax for this. 
Mr S wasnt happy with what Capital One had said and offered, so he brought his complaint 
to this service. Mr S is represented by a third party.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020, setting out the reasons why I 
didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. I set out in that provisional decision the full 
background and the reasons why I had come to the conclusions I had.
Both Capital One and Mr S have responded indicating they had received my provisional 
decision but neither has provided any further comment, evidence or information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold, so I am not upholding 
Mr Ss complaint and I shall explain why.
Mr S applied for the credit card through the post. Capital One has provided a copy of the 
signed credit card application form Mr S submitted at the time. He completed the application 
form at home himself and on that form stated he was employed and provided his salary. 
There was a section on the form headed Additional Information and in that section Mr S 
has selected the Yes box to say he wanted to take out the PPI. Next to the boxes for the 
PPI it is indicated there is a leaflet attached providing information about the PPI. 
DRN-2162112In the section where Mr S signed the application form it states he is signing to confirm the 
information he has given is accurate and he has read the terms and conditions that apply to 
the agreement. 
So I think Mr S would have read the information provided at the time he was completing the 
application form and it should have been clear to him he had a choice whether or not to take 
out the PPI. And I think he chose to take it out because he wanted this type of cover at the 
time.
During the course of the investigation of this complaint Mr S was asked for clarification about 
the sick pay he would have received from his employer. In response Mr S said he could 
provide no evidence about this as he worked for a small employer and only had a verbal 
employment contract. 
Mr S has told us he had been with his employer for over five years at the time he applied for 
the PPI. That would have been since 1996. There was at that time no legal requirement for 
any employee to have a written contract of employment. The agreement of an employee to 
work and undertaking the work, together with the agreement of the employer to pay and 
actually paying for the work, forms a verbal contract by performance. 
There is however a legal requirement to provide each employee with a written statement of 
certain particulars, and terms and conditions of the employment. This was required to be 
issued within two months of the commencement of the employment, under the Terms of 
Employment Act (Information) 1994 (as amended and updated by the Terms of Employment 
Act (Information) 2001).
So as Mr S had been in employment since 1996, and only took out the PPI in 2001, if he 
hadnt already been given a written statement, he could have demanded one. This, together 
with his pay slips, tax code etc would have supported his employment status if he had 
needed to make a claim on the PPI.
Mr S had been with the same employer for over 5 years so there is nothing to indicate this 
was a temporary contract of employment. And I think he would have easily been able to 
evidence his employment status if required to do so for a claim. Therefore, based on the 
evidence I have seen in the documents from the time and from what Mr S has told us about 
his circumstances, I think that Mr S was eligible for the PPI policy and would have been able 
to claim the benefits, as he was employed.
At the time of agreeing to take out the PPI Mr S may not have clearly understood all of the 
restrictions in the terms and conditions that applied to the PPI. And its possible the 
information he had when choosing to take out the policy wasnt as clear as it could have 
been. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest he would have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. Ive already set out that I think Mr S was employed and there is 
nothing to indicate he had any pre-existing medical conditions. As he wasnt caught by any 
restrictions of the policy, I dont think better information about these when the PPI was taken 
out would have put him off taking out the cover at the time. 
The cost of the policy was reasonable when looking at the benefits offered if a claim was 
made. And I have seen nothing to show the cost was not affordable.
Mr S says he had good employment benefits, although he has not been able to provide 
evidence of what his entitlement was. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any 
work benefits he would have received, so allowing the income from any possible work benefits, to pay for other household expenses. Mr S hasnt provided evidence of any 
savings, but this policy would have paid Mr Ss credit card payments, allowing use of savings 
for other living expenses if he wasnt able to work. So I think the policy would have provided 
a useful benefit to him if he had needed to claim.
I indicated in my provisional decision, I had seen no clear evidence to show the PPI had 
been mis-sold. As I have received no additional evidence or anything to persuade me 
differently, it follows, Im not upholding this complaint that the PPI was mis-sold to Mr S.
Ive also considered if the compensation for the commission and profit share that would have 
been part of the PPI premiums that Capital One has offered is fair. Capital One has offered 
in total £861.39, which is made up of the excess commission of £188.15, interest caused by 
this of £385.68, and compensatory interest of £359.44 before tax (which is £71.88). Capital 
One has said it would set this against any over limit amount or defaulted balance on the 
credit card if there is any, and pay by cheque any amount still remaining due to Mr S. 
I think what Capital One has calculated for this is fair. Also, how it has indicated it would use 
the compensation amount and pay Mr S also seems a fair and reasonable approach. It is 
unclear if this payment has yet been processed. If not Capital One should arrange to do this 
as soon as possible. If the payment has already been made, then there is nothing more for 
Capital One to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am not upholding this complaint that the PPI was mis-
sold to Mr S by Capital One (Europe) Plc. And I think the amount of compensation offered in 
relation to any excess commission is fair and the proposed method of using and paying this 
compensation is reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman