DRN-2821669
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In August 2020 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Santander. At the point of supply the car was 5 years old and had covered 35,490 
miles. 
Mr C experienced a number of issues with the car. These included:
Stop/start not working
Battery faulty
Anti-lock braking system faulty
Offside rear wheel sensor faulty
Knocking noise when driving
Air conditioning faulty
Mr C said he reported the issues to the supplying dealer and that the car was returned for 
repairs in September 2020. However, when Mr C got the car back, the issues hadnt 
resolved. The stop/start and cruise control werent working, the air conditioning wasnt as 
cold as it should be and there was a smell of exhaust fumes inside the car.
The car was returned to the supplying dealer in October 2020 for further repairs.
When Mr C collected the car, he found that the stop/start still wasnt working. He complained 
to Santander. 
Santander arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The engineer found a fault with 
the stop/start system but said this was an electrical fault which wouldnt have been present 
at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the independent inspection, Santander rejected Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that because repairs had been carried out to 
the stop/start system so soon after the point of supply, the fault was likely to have been 
present at the point of supply. The investigator said the repairs to the stop/start hadnt been 
successful and said Mr C should be allowed to reject the car.
Santander didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second-hand car  such 
as that supplied to Mr C  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more 
often than a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car as opposed to a fault caused by 
general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally 
up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the 
car. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer is allowed to reject the car. After 6 months 
the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied.
Mr C and Santander disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision, I need to look at all the available information and decide, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This was carried out in November 2020 and concluded 
that although there was a stop/start fault, this wouldnt have been present at the point of 
supply.
Ive got some concerns about the report. The inspector hasnt explained why he reached the 
conclusion that the fault wouldnt have been present at the point of supply. Nor does he 
make any reference to the previous repairs to the stop/start. I cant see that the inspector 
has been made aware that the car was returned to the supplying dealer for repairs to the 
stop/start in September 2020, shortly after the point of supply. Because of this, I have doubts 
as to the reliability of the report. 
Ive looked at the supplying dealers invoice dated September 2020. This shows that the 
stop/start was the subject of a wiring repair. At the time of the repair the car had covered 
35,703 miles. The repairs were carried out around 2 weeks after the point of supply, and the 
car had only covered 213 miles during this time.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the stop/start fault was 
present at the point of supply. The fault was reported to the supplying dealer very soon after 
the point of supply and repairs were attempted within the first month of the point of supply. 
Im not persuaded that the independent report is sufficient to rebut the presumption that the 
fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Although the supplying dealer attempted repair, its cleat these werent successful because 
there was still a stop/start fault when the car was inspected the following month.
Taking all the available information into account, I dont think the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply and I dont think the attempted repairs were successful.    
Putting things rightBecause the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied, Santander needs to put things 
right. A repair has already been attempted and it was unsuccessful, so under the relevant 
legislation Mr C should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr C has explained that he stopped using the car in April 2021 because of the stop/start 
fault. Given that the stop/start has been confirmed to be faulty due to an electrical issue, I 
think it was reasonable for Mr C to stop using the car. I think its fair in the circumstances to 
ask Santander to refund all monthly payments Mr C has made since April 2021. 
Mr C has explained that hes been affected financially by the fault with the car. Hes also 
suffered a degree of inconvenience because hes had to return the car to the supplying 
dealer twice and make it available for inspection. Because the car supplied wasnt of 
satisfactory quality, I think Santander should compensate Mr C for the trouble and upset hes 
been caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr C
Refund any payments made by Mr C since April 2021
Pay compensation of £150  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman