DRN-2528111
The complaint
Miss B complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited declined her mobile phone insurance 
claim. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Miss B purchased a mobile phone in May 2020 and took out an insurance policy to protect it 
on 18 June 2020  with Astrenska the underwriter of the policy.
On 22 July 2020 Miss B contacted the policy provider to make a claim as shed lost the 
mobile phone. As part of the claims process she was asked to provide, amongst other 
things, proof of usage from the service provider. Upon receiving this, Astrenska declined the 
claim as they said the phone wasnt covered as it hadnt been used for its core purpose 
since the policy started. 
Miss B complained about this decision. She felt shed made it clear when making the claim 
that the reason she hadnt been using the phone for calls had been because shed 
purchased it for business purposes, and her business hadnt yet been set up at the time it 
was lost. But she said the phone had been used during this time for other purposes  such 
as her niece using it to play games or creating videos. Miss B added that she has another 
mobile phone that is for personal use.
Astrenska didnt change their position. They reiterated that the policy terms exclude cover for 
a mobile phone which hasnt been used for its core purpose since the inception of the policy. 
And the proof of usage provided by the service provider showed the phone had been only 
used from 30 May 2020 to 2 June 2020  prior to the policy commencing. Astrenska 
acknowledged that core purpose isnt defined in the policy terms but they considered it 
reasonable for this to include making and receiving calls, text messaging and other activities 
requiring the use of mobile data. So, while they noted Miss Bs suggestion that there are 
many reasons and uses for purchasing a mobile phone, communication would always be a 
primary (core) reason for purchasing a phone. 
The complaint was referred to our service but our investigator thought Astrenska had fairly 
declined the claim. He said he wouldnt expect an insurer to define every exclusion or 
wording in the policy terms. But, he though interpreting core purposes as Astrenska had 
done so was reasonable. And he also explained that its industry practice for insurers to 
request proof of usage when assessing a claim  as this allows them to check a phone has 
been used since the policy started to ensure it wasnt lost beforehand. He thought this was 
fair. So, as there isnt anything to show the phone was used (for calls, text or data usage) 
since the policy inception, Astrenska were unable to rule out the possibility the phone was 
lost before Miss B took out the policy. 
Miss B disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Bs dissatisfaction with her claim being declined. And Id like to reassure 
her that Ive taken everything she has said in to account when deciding her complaint, 
including why there isnt any proof of usage after the policy commenced. However, what I 
must consider here is whether Astrenska has acted unfairly or outside the terms of the 
policy. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss B but, for the reasons Ill explain, I 
dont think they have. 
The terms of the policy say:
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS
This insurance does not cover:
1.Any claim for a mobile phone which has not been used for its core purpose 
since the inception of your policy, or since it was added to your policy, as 
verified by your airtime provider. 
Before I go on to consider the application of this exclusion in relation Miss Bs claim, Id like 
to reiterate  as our investigator explained  that its not uncommon for an insurer to request 
proof of usage as part of their consideration of a claim. This ensures they only settle 
legitimate claims as it allows them to check whether a phone has been used (or not) after 
the policy was set up. And so, it helps them to rule out whether a phone was lost before 
cover commenced. I therefore dont consider the above exclusion to be unfair as I would 
only expect Astrenska to pay for insured events.
The proof of usage from the service provider says Miss Bs phone was only used between 
30 May 2020 and 2 June 2020. I understand Miss B has tried to obtain evidence of data 
usage from her service provider. But, while shes experienced problems obtaining this, shes 
since confirmed there likewise wouldnt be any evidence of data usage as the phone wasnt 
being used for that purpose  for example, she says her niece used it to play games that 
were already downloaded and making videos.
Astrenska declined the claim as they said the phone hadnt been used for its core purpose 
since the inception of the policy. Miss B however disagrees with their interpretation of core 
purpose and considers it unfair for them to decline the claim when this isnt defined in the 
policy terms. She feels their decision to decline the claim on this basis implies she was using 
her phone wrongly and so she is being penalised because she didnt use it for calls or text 
messaging. 
Ive carefully considered Miss Bs points on this. But, as Ive said, I dont think its unfair for 
Astrenska to check whether a phone has been used (or not) as part of their consideration of 
a claim. And, while I accept modern mobile phones have a range of features, I also consider 
their interpretation of a mobile phones core purpose as reasonable. I think it is commonly 
accepted that the main use of a mobile phone is for making and receiving calls, text 
messaging and data usage (email, internet or social media for example). So, although core 
purpose hasnt been defined in the policy terms, I think Astrenskas application of the 
exclusion here is fair. It therefore follows that, in the absence of anything to show Miss B used the mobile phone 
after the policy commenced (for its core purpose), I dont think Astrenska has unfairly 
declined her claim.
I realise this isnt the outcome Miss B is hoping for. But, while I dont dispute that she 
purchased the phone for business purposes, Im satisfied Astrenska has declined the policy 
fairly and in line with the policy terms. I therefore dont think they need to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman