DRN-3213625
The complaint
Mr H complains UK Insurance Limited trading as Green Flag (Green Flag) caused further 
damage to his car when it recovered it after he claimed on his roadside assistance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Green Flag involved throughout the claim 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Green Flag.
What happened
Mr Hs car broke down whilst he was driving on the motorway. He was able to drive the car 
off the motorway and he then contacted Green Flag for assistance. 
Green Flag diagnosed a possible turbo fault and was not able to repair at the roadside so 
advised for Mr H not to drive it. Mr H was told his car would be towed home the following 
day. Green Flag provided a taxi for Mr H and his family. 
When Mr Hs car arrived back at the agreed location there was damage to the wing, bumper, 
and wing mirror to the left-hand side. Mr H looked at the dash cam footage from his car he 
saw that the car had been driven whilst in Green Flags possession. Mr H said that in 
addition to the damage to the body work, damage may have been caused to the engine by 
Green Flag driving it. 
Green Flag accepted Mr Hs complaint about the damage to the bodywork of his car whilst it 
was in its possession and repairs were authorised.
 
Green Flag said Mr H had not provided any evidence to support his claim that Green Flag 
had caused further damage to the car engine whilst it was in its possession, so it did not 
authorise a diagnostic report. It said if Mr H provided a diagnostic report showing evidence of 
fault or damage caused by its recovery engineer it would look into it. 
Mr H is unhappy that Green Flag are not accepting liability for additional damage that may 
have been caused when the car was driven by its recovery engineers.  
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She looked into the case and said as there is 
no evidence to say that Green Flag contributed to the damage, she could not ask them to do 
more than it had already offered to do.
As Mr H is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my response I shall only address the outstanding complaint which is regarding the 
potential further damage to the car engine.
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle, our service cant 
determine how the damage occurred. Instead what we look at is the information the 
insurance company relied on to make its decision.
In this case the fault on the car was noticed when Mr H was driving it on the motorway. He 
drove it off the motorway to the nearest services and then called Green Flag.  
I can see that Green Flag diagnosed a possible turbo fault when inspecting the car and 
advised Mr H not to continue driving. Green Flag organised recovery of Mr Hs car. 
On checking the dash cam footage from his car Mr H saw that the car had been driven whilst 
in Green Flags possession and he said that this could have caused further damage to the 
engine.
Green Flag confirm that its recovery driver drove the car on and off the recovery truck. 
Green Flag have provided evidence of advice from its technical team who said that driving 
the car on and off the recovery truck has not caused further damage. It further said that its 
recovery drivers are all mechanics and wouldnt have driven the car on to the truck if they felt 
there would be an issue.
Green Flag therefore would not arrange for a diagnostic test to be done at its cost, as there 
was already a fault with the engine before it was recovered. 
Mr H disagreed with Green Flags technical team opinion. He said his qualified mechanic will 
be able to report on the engine issues caused by prolonged driving from Green Flags 
incapable tow truck drivers. 
Although I can accept Mr Hs frustration, and I appreciate that he thinks further damage may 
have been caused to the engine after it was driven by Green Flag he has not provided any 
evidence to support this. 
As Mr Hs complaint is about potential damage caused by Green Flag and not confirmed 
damage, I think that Green Flag have offered a reasonable way forward. Although Green 
Flag does not accept responsibility for any potential damage, it has agreed if Mr H obtains a 
diagnostic report that shows that further damage was caused by the movement of the car by 
Green Flag that it will cover the cost of the report and consider any damage under the terms 
of his policy.
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not require Green Flag to do anything 
more than it has already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman