DRN-4495226
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the role of Inter-UK Financial Services Limited (Inter-UK) in the 
switch of his personal pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) held with 
Intelligent Money to invest with SVS Securities. He says the switch was unsuitable and Inter-
UK should pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr S says he was a client of Mr X. In February 2018, there was a switch of his Standard Life 
pension together with a Scottish Widows plan into a SIPP with Intelligent Money (IM). The 
total amount transferred was around £379,000.
Following the switch of his pension funds in 2018, Mr S took tax-free cash of about £95,000 
and a further £12,000 from his pot. He then invested the residual funds through an 
arrangement with SVS.
Mr S says the 2018 transaction was as a result of advice he received from Mr X. However, 
hes not been able to provide any advice paperwork  such as a fact find or suitability letter. 
However, the SIPP application with IM shows that it was submitted by a Ms Y of Inter-UK.
Unfortunately, Mr S received a letter in May 2020 which said SVS was in special 
administration  a formal insolvency procedure. It explained he was eligible to apply to the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) for compensation up to the statutory cap 
of £85,000.
Mr S contacted the FSCS about a claim against an unrelated firm he believed to be 
associated with Mr X. But it rejected his claim on the basis that there was another party  
Inter-UK  involved in the pension switch and the subsequent investment into the SVS 
portfolio.
Mr S complained to Inter-UK in June 2021. Inter-UK didnt respond to the complaint and so 
his case was referred to our Service in February 2022.
In its only submission to our service, Inter-UK said it was unable to locate an advice file. 
Both parties are therefore unable to produce a suitability report, or any other advice 
documents from the time of advice.  But it added that Mr X was never a certified adviser with 
it. Inter-UKs director said the following:
I have queried the application process with Intelligent Money, the SIPP provider, and 
it appears that the Terms of Business were set up by [Ms Y] who was the Director of 
an [appointed representative (AR)] which was briefly under Inter-UK (Terms of 
Business were set up in Inter-UK's name, not the AR), she was not a principal of 
Inter-UK and should not have been able to set up TOB without a Principal signing.
After Inter-UK failed to engage any further with us and our investigator, an ombudsman 
issued a jurisdiction decision setting out that Inter-UK was responsible for the complaint 
based on its ARs involvement in the pension switch and investment. 
Another investigator then looked at the merits of the complaint. He concluded that Inter-UK 
had advised Mr S and the advice to transfer to the SIPP and SVS was unsuitable and that it 
was therefore fair and reasonable for Inter-UK to pay Mr S compensation for his losses. 
Once again, Inter-UK failed to respond to the investigators view. So Mr Ss complaint was 
passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 13 November 2023. I said I 
planned to uphold the complaint but given the lack of engagement from Inter-UK, my 
findings were based on limited evidence. I anticipated that on receipt of my provisional 
decision, Inter-UK would provide further arguments and evidence. But it did not respond at 
all  despite us chasing it. As such, my decision remains the same and is repeated below. 
My decision on jurisdiction
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided in relation to this 
complaint. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a 
complaint, we need to check, by reference to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
A previous ombudsman issued a decision on jurisdiction. Inter-UK has not disputed the 
previous ombudsmans findings that it is responsible for the ARs involvement in the pension 
switch.
Nevertheless, given that jurisdiction is a matter that we must constantly review, I wish to 
clarify two things. 
First, Mr S has always said that he was advised by Mr X. There is no clear evidence that Mr 
X had anything to do with Inter-UK as an adviser. And I think its notable that when Mr S 
submitted a claim to the FSCS, he did so on the basis that he believed Mr X to be connected 
to a completely different firm when giving him advice. So, I dont think I can conclude that 
Mr X gave Mr S advice as an Inter-UK adviser and that it is therefore responsible for the 
advice to Mr S to switch his pensions to the IM SIPP and the subsequent investment.
However, I think Mr Ss complaint encompasses all acts undertaken in connection with the 
pension switch even if hes focused on the advice. Inter-UK appears to accept that its AR set 
up terms of business with IM SIPP. And the application documents suggest the AR then 
submitted the SIPP application for Mr S. I think this was probably because it was a 
requirement of the SIPP operator that a regulated firm be involved in the pension switch. So, 
I think Inter-UKs AR was likely involved in the regulated activity of making arrangements for 
Mr Ss pension and investment.
Secondly, as DISP 2.3.3G explains:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firm  is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or 
agent for which the firm  has accepted responsibility).
Further, under section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA):
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.The responsibility of a principal was considered in the case of Anderson v Sense Network 
[2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of Appeal issued a 
decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, Mr Justice Jacobs said:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its ARs and its necessary to 
go beyond looking at the activities Inter-UK was authorised to do. 
The analysis of DISP and FSMA in these circumstances usually involves reviewing the 
agreement between Inter-UK and its AR. The problem here is that Inter-UK have failed to 
engage with us in our assessment of the complaint. Inter-UK hasnt provided any evidence 
of what its AR was and wasnt authorised to do. 
In the absence of such evidence, I think its reasonable to conclude that the AR was, more 
likely than not, authorised by Inter-UK to do the things that it itself was authorised to do. 
Inter-UKs authorisations as set out on the FCAs register include making arrangements for 
investments. 
This doesnt mean that Im going against the finding in the Anderson case. It is a conclusion 
Ive reached based on the limited evidence and arguments presented to me. 
So, my conclusion is that Inter-UK is responsible for the investment arrangements 
undertaken by its AR and we have jurisdiction to consider that issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
Further, the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) at COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients, in 
relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail client. The definition of 
designated investment business includes pension funds.So, Inter-UK (via its AR) had obligations to treat Mr S fairly and act in his best interests when 
arranging the pension switch.
The application form submitted by Inter-UK for the IM SIPP appears to show an intended 
investment for the SIPP funds in a Saxo fund. When IM SIPP queried this with Inter-UK a 
short time later in March 2018, Mr X replied from an Inter-UK email address to say that this 
was only done because the application form didnt have any other options for investment 
choices. We clearly dont have all the information and evidence, but it seems like Mr X 
instructed IM SIPP to change the investment instruction to the SVS investment.
As Ive said above in the section about jurisdiction, I cant currently conclude that Mr X was 
connected to Inter-UK as an adviser. But he appears to have had access to Inter-UKs email 
address. So I think that he was likely working for or assisting Inter-UK or its AR in helping it 
complete the investment arrangements. Inter-UK hasnt countered this. And so I think its fair 
to conclude that Inter-UK or its AR knew that Mr S would be using the IM SIPP to make an 
investment in a fund managed by SVS. It is also relevant to point out in this regard that Im 
aware from other complaints about Inter-UK that have been referred to our service that Inter-
UK has arranged other SVS investments. So arrangement of investments in SVS doesnt 
appear to be completely anomalous to Inter-UKs business practice.
At the time, Mr S was earning around £70,000, had no other pensions and was looking to 
take early retirement due to illness. He owned a house that still had a mortgage. He says 
that Mr X had advised him about another £70,000 direct investment in SVS, but that he had 
no other investment experience. Mr S says that he had a low appetite for risk and, looking at 
his circumstances, I have no reason to doubt that.
The IM SIPP appears to have been relatively low cost, but its not clear why Mr S needed to 
switch his pensions rather than retain or make fund changes to his existing pensions. The 
SVS fund would also likely have had charges and costs associated with it.
Inter-UK wasnt responsible for providing advice, but it doesnt appear to have done anything 
to clearly set out its role to Mr S and that it wasnt providing him with advice. It asked no 
questions about why Mr S was looking to switch his pensions to the IM SIPP and invest in 
SVS - and the circumstances surrounding the decision to switch. And it appears likely that 
Inter-UK knew that Mr S was dealing with an unregulated adviser in the form of Mr X. So, 
Inter-UK knew or to have known that Mr S had not received regulated financial advice  
despite his circumstances and health meaning that he was at a critical point in his retirement 
planning.
Had Inter-UK conducted its business with care and sought to act in Mr Ss best interests, I 
think, fairly and reasonably, it should have offered to either provide Mr S regulated advice or 
encouraged him to seek it elsewhere. It didnt do this and instead simply appears to have 
arranged the switches and investment.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr S would have sought regulated advice if hed been 
encouraged by Inter-UK to do so. And based on what Ive seen so far, I think its unlikely that 
he would have been advised that switching his pensions to a SIPP and investing funds via 
SVS was suitable or necessary. I think Mr S would have listened to that advice. So I think its 
fair to conclude that Inter-UKs failings have led to Mr S suffering losses.
Mr X gave advice to Mr S when he should not have done so. And Im aware the FCA has 
identified issues with SVS and its management of funds and assets. So other parties were 
involved in the loss. Ive taken this into account when assessing whether its fair to hold 
Inter-UK responsible for all the losses Mr S suffered.But this complaint is against Inter-UK  not Mr X or SVS. The DISP rules set out that when 
an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, then that money award may be 
such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair compensation for financial loss. 
Inter-UK had its own distinct regulatory obligations to treat Mr S fairly and act in his best 
interests. So, whilst I take account of the potential contribution made by other parties to the 
losses suffered by Mr S, I think its fair and reasonable to make an award against Inter-UK 
that requires it to compensate Mr S for the full measure of his loss. Inter-UK likely knew or 
ought to have known that Mr S was receiving advice from an unregulated party  Mr X - and 
so Mr X was committing a criminal offence. This ought to have been a big warning sign that 
Mr S was at risk of considerable consumer detriment. But it did nothing about this. This was 
not a case where there was some minor, unfortunate failing on the part of Inter-UK. But for 
its actions, Mr S would not be in the position he is now.
Im not asking Inter-UK to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. 
Im satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That another 
party (or parties) might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter and that 
fact shouldnt impact on Mr Ss right to compensation from Inter-UK for the full amount of his 
loss.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if hed been treated fairly.
I think Mr S would have remained with his previous providers, however I cant be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policies would have been worth. Im 
satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Inter-UK do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Inter-UK must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's SIPP with the notional value if it had remained 
with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there 
is a loss and compensation is payable.
Inter-UK should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Inter-UK should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Inter-UK is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Inter-UK should also pay Mr S £300 for the undoubted distress caused to him by the 
unfair arrangements and inconvenience to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Inter-UK deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Inter-UK should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
IM SIPP Some 
liquid, some 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providersDate of 
investmentDate of 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Inter-UK should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Inter-UK pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Inter-UK is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Inter-UK may require that Mr S provides an 
undertaking to pay Inter-UK any amount he might receive from the investments once hes 
been compensated in full for his losses if Inter-UK chooses to limit compensation to the 
award limit. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Inter-UK will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr S's investment had it remained with the previous providers until the 
end date. Inter-UK should request that the previous providers calculate this value.Any additional sum paid into the pension fund should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the pension fund should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Inter-UK totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, Inter-UK will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr S's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The IM SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive 
set out above how this might be achieved by Inter-UK taking over the portfolio, or this is 
something that Mr S can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Inter-UK is 
unable to purchase the portfolio and the SIPP cant be closed, to provide certainty to all 
parties I think its fair that that Inter-UK pays Mr S an upfront lump sum equivalent to five 
years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Lastly, in order to be fair to Inter-UK, it should have the option of payment of the redress 
being contingent upon Mr S assigning any claim he may have against other parties in 
respect of this loss but only if Mr S is fully compensated. If Inter-UK chooses to limit the 
compensation to our award limit, the terms of the assignment should require Inter-UK to 
account to Mr S for any amount it subsequently recovers from third parties that exceeds the 
loss paid to Mr S.
If Inter-UK elects to take an assignment of rights before paying compensation, it must first 
provide a draft of the assignment to Mr S for his consideration and agreement. Any 
expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment must be met by Inter-UK.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S likely wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that Mr S 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I think are appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Inter-UK Financial Services Limited should 
pay Mr S the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus 
interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Inter-UK Financial Services Limited pays Mr S the 
balance.  This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Inter-UK Financial 
Services Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr S can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to get independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman