DRN-4103905
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
following a claim she made on her home emergency insurance policy.
Reference to British Gas includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs M held a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas.
When she needed to make a claim, she called British Gas who subsequently sent an 
engineer to Mrs Ms property.
Mrs M complains that that engineer took something (two pieces of wood) from her property 
without her permission. She said this caused her worry and doesnt know what else the 
engineer might have taken. Mrs M cancelled her policy.
British Gas said its engineer thought the wood was rubbish and apologised for the distress it 
caused Mrs M. It offered to refund her the cancellation charge.
Mrs M didnt think this was enough and brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators didnt recommend it be upheld. They said they couldnt be sure of 
the engineers intentions, but because Mrs M confirmed the wood had no value to her, and 
there was no evidence of anything else being taken, she thought British gass offer was fair.
Mrs M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, Ill explain why.
In principle, I agree with Mrs M that items, regardless of what they are, shouldnt be 
taken from her property without her permission.
But, the engineer said they thought the two pieces of wood were rubbish. And while I, 
nor anyone other than the engineer will know their true intentions, I think that 
explanation is plausible given the items taken. I understand Mrs M doesnt agree and 
says other rubbish was left. But I dont think this means the engineer didnt think the 
two bits of wood were rubbish.
Mrs M has confirmed the two bits of wood meant nothing to her, she placed no value 
on them and wasnt planning on using them for anything. So, I cant say being 
without them has caused her any loss.
I understand Mrs M said she was worried about what the engineer might have taken. 
But theres no evidence of anything else being taken.
So, Im satisfied an apology and waiving the cancellation fee is a reasonable 
response from British Gas.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman