DRN-3183890
The complaint
[Mr H says Gate Capital Group Ltd (trading as PlutusGroup Ltd) gave him unsuitable advice 
to transfer his Vodafone pension into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), where his 
funds were overseen by a discretionary fund management service (DFM). Mr H says hes 
suffered financial detriment.
Gate Capital is represented by Kennedys Law.
What happened
Mr H met with Gate Capital in September 2015 to review his pension arrangements. He was 
a member of several schemes and plans. Four were the focus of the advice he received at 
this time. Gate Capital gathered information about Mr Hs circumstances, objectives and risk 
appetite. It made various recommendations to him about what he should do with these 
funds.
In summary, Gate Capital advised Mr H to transfer all four pension pots into a Beaufort SIPP 
operated by Gaudi Regulated Service Limited. It recommended his funds should be 
managed by Beaufort Securities (BS) and a DFM arrangement. Ultimately Mr H was 
persuaded to accept the advice hed received.
The events set out to this point are the subject a separate complaint. But in 2016 Gate 
Capital gave Mr H separate advice to transfer another of his pension pots into the SIPP and 
DFM arrangement it had established in 2015. Its the transfer of this fifth pension held until 
this point with Vodafone, which is the subject of this complaint. 
Unfortunately, Mr Hs pension arrangements didnt work out well. He raised a complaint. And 
he first approached this Service in August 2017, when his focus was on the role of BS. 
Mr Hs cases were subsequently considered by an Ombudsman in terms of our jurisdiction 
to review the issues hed raised; and in thinking about the transactions between him and 
Gate Capital, the correct number of separate complaints that had effectively been raised.
Ive reviewed the Ombudsmans conclusions in respect of these matters, and I agree with 
him. Its not necessary to rehearse what he said in full. The following extracts from his 
conclusions of 24 October 2018 (our jurisdiction) and 18 November 2019 (how many 
complaints) summarise matters well enough.
Can we consider Mr Hs complaints?
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the FCA the power to say what complaints we can and cant consider. The FCA 
has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the FCA Handbook (also known as 
DISP or the DISP rules).
When initially engaging with the Service about Mr Hs complaints, Gate Capital said it had 
sent Mr H its final response letter (FRL) in August 2017 and because he hadnt raised the 
matter with us until March 2018, he was out of time. The rules at DISP 2.8.2 (1) say he had 
to complain within 6 months of its FRL. The complaint hed raised in August 2017 was about 
a different firm (BS).
The Ombudsman considered what had happened. Gate Capitals recommendations to Mr H 
related to the transfer four of his pensions into a SIPP, where his funds were overseen by 
BS which provided a DFM service He concluded there were elements of Mr Hs 2018 
complaint that we could consider. But he agreed certain aspects of his case were time-
barred. The following extracts from his October 2018 decision summarise the position:
[The Investigator] sent you [Gate Capital] the key referenced [email] on the day she set 
up [Mr Hs] complaint (on 27 March 2018). That email was the one to this Service [from Mr 
H] (on the [BS] complaint)on 23 March. From that email, I dont agree [Mr H] had ever 
made these numbered complaint points from that email to Plutus before:
2. I was approaching retirement and therefore it was not appropriate to engage with a high 
risk, long term pension product such as a SIPP.
3. I was advised to withdraw my funds (cash in) from a final salary pension plan
As you know, the previous complaint that [Mr H] made (and the only complaint Plutus had 
been required to address) was sent to both Plutus and Beaufort on 16 June 2017. In 
summary it was about the investmentsmade for (i.e. within) the SIPP; it questioned 
whether the portfolio (again, within the SIPP) was appropriate for a medium risk investor; 
and went on to make a few other points that would more properly fall on Beaufort itself to 
address. As you know, weve since looked at a complaint against Beaufort which is now in 
the hands of the FSCS.
Notably, [Mr Hs] email of 16 June 2017 concluded, The end point I am looking for as a 
result of inappropriate investments is for full restoration back to the starting point and to 
include investment losses I have incurred from the start of my SIPP in December 2015. It 
wasnt seeking to be put back into the former pension plans [Mr H] had been in before he 
started the SIPP, or for compensation to be calculated by reference to those plans  which 
were not mentioned in the complaint at all.
we have jurisdiction under DISP 2.8.2(1) because that rule was never triggered in respect 
of any complaints about transfers into the SIPP.
With regard to Gate Capitals recommendation for Mr H to use BS and the DFM 
arrangement, the Ombudsman went on to draw some important conclusions. These were 
relevant not only to what we could consider, but also framed any redress that might be due 
in the event the merits of Mr Hs complaint were subsequently upheld.
Ive considered our jurisdiction over this [element of Mr Hs] complaint further. Taking into 
account all the circumstances, I agree I was wrong to conclude that [Mr H] referred a 
complaint to us in time about the recommendation to use BeaufortI should point out that 
the complaint against Beaufort was originally referred to us by phone on 15 August 2017, 
and having listened to the recording, I found Plutus name was not mentioned in that phone 
call
[Mr Hs] understanding of what he was doing at the time is just as important. He didnt 
originally use the line of argument that he thought he was referring two complaints to us back in August 2017. Instead he felt that he had exceptional circumstances that resulted in 
him referring the Plutus one to us too late. Theres also an admission of that in his email to 
[the Investigator] on 23 March 2018, which is the first point at which [Mr H] says that he 
wants to continue the complaint he originally started with Plutus; and that its taken him 
some time to understand that he should do so. So, whilst [Mr H] does then go on to make 
the new complaint pointsI think his original complaint about Plutus role in selecting 
Beaufort to manage his SIPP is time barred
Although I now think this complaint is time barred it might be helpful to point out that [it] 
may not have been particularly fruitful (if at all) in terms of obtaining compensation, even if 
we had been able to look at it. Assuming that Plutus arrived at a reasonable assessment of 
[Mr Hs] attitude to risk when deciding what instructions to provide to Beaufort to manage the 
funds in the SIPP, we wouldnt have been able to hold Plutus responsible if Beaufort 
subsequently mismanaged those funds.
And in the event that there had been a mismatch in terms of [Mr Hs] attitude to risk, we 
would still only have been able to consider the difference in performance between the 
benchmark for a portfolio in line with the attitude to risk Plutus actually gave Beaufort, and 
one that performed in line with what the attitude to risk should have been. So, there may or 
may not have been any loss.
For the avoidance of any doubt, should any complaints about the transfers-into the SIPP be 
upheld, it follows that the reference point for calculating compensation would need to be the 
SIPPs value based on the benchmark Beaufort should have been working to for the attitude 
to risk it was actually given by Plutus  not the SIPPs current value.).
How many complaints?
The definition of complaint in the FCA Handbook is as follows:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on behalf 
of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, which:
(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material 
distress or material inconvenience; and
(b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom 
that respondent has some connection in marketing or providing financial services or 
products, which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
So, the key question was, if Mr Hs expression of dissatisfaction was about one or more 
provision(s) of, or failure(s) to provide, a financial service(s)?
Mr H only submitted one complaint to this Service. And Gate Capital originally argued that all 
matters arising should be taken as one case. However, we have an inquisitorial remit, and 
we do not require complainants to submit their cases to us as if they were pursuing more 
formal legal proceedings. We look beyond the way in which a complainant has expressed 
their complaint to establish the underlying substance of what theyve told us.
I think the gap in time between the advice Mr H received in 2015 to transfer his four 
pensions (the focus of a separate complaint) into a new SIPP and the recommendation Gate 
Capital gave him in 2016 to transfer his Vodafone pension (the subject of this complaint), 
and changes in his circumstances between these events, clearly constitute the separate 
provision of a financial services.So, having reviewed these matters, I conclude the concerns Mr H has raised about Gate 
Capital, and which are within our jurisdiction to consider, were properly organised into two 
separate complaints.
The investigation of the merits of this complaint
An Investigator went on to review the merits of Mr Hs case on 13 February 2020. He 
identified relevant findings from a report produced by the regulator into poor and good 
practice on pension switching. This concluded poor practice was evident where a pension 
ended up incurring extra costs without good reason, for example where flexibility or fund 
performance were cited but without clear evidence this was needed or would be delivered.
The Investigator thought there were problems with several aspects of Gate Capitals 
approach, including: the attitude to risk assessment conducted; its consideration of his 
experience of pensions and investments; aspects of his circumstances, such as Mr Hs 
proximity to retirement; and the suitability of the DFM arrangement. He thought switching 
incurred more costs, which given the time horizon of investments was likely to erode any 
performance gains.
On balance the Investigator concluded Gate Capitals recommendation to Mr H to switch his 
Vodafone pension had been unsuitable.
Gate Capital disagreed with the Investigators findings. It felt hed strayed into matters related 
to its advice around BSs services, which an Ombudsman had already decided were outside 
of our jurisdiction. It went onto note that Mr Hs Vodafone pension was held in cash, not in 
line with his assessed risk appetite. And it disputed the Investigators findings about his risk 
appetite. It also pointed to evidence of Mr Hs competence and experience in financial 
matters.
The Investigator responded in full to Gate Capita on 23 July 2020. He made clear the 
position on jurisdiction again, setting out what he did (could) consider and what he didnt 
(couldnt) look into. And he addressed the key points raised by it. He concluded that none of 
the arguments it had made caused him to depart from his initial conclusions, so he was 
upholding Mr Hs complaint and required it to put things right in the manner hed provided for 
in his initial view.
On 15 September 2020 Gate Capitals representative then wrote to this Service in the 
following terms:
I refer to [Mr Hs] complaints against Gate Capital ("GC") and your telephone call with GC 
on 13 August. GC is mindful of the significant management time and costs that has been 
and will continue to be incurred defending these complaints. In light of this, GC has 
instructed me to establish whether [Mr H] would be prepared to settle his two complaints 
now, on a strictly without admission of liability basis. The settlement monies would be 
calculated on the basis of the redress methodology that you discussed with GC on 13 
August (the comparison of two benchmarks to calculate the losses arising from [Mr Hs] 5 
pensions)
In order for GC to calculate loss on this basis and in accordance with the redress 
methodology set out in your Adjudications, I would be grateful if you could ask [Mr H] to 
provide GC with details of his (i) tax position and (ii) details of the income and withdrawals 
made in respect of each of his pensions. GC will then present a loss calculation to [Mr H] for 
his review.
Settlement would also be conditional upon:1. The parties agreeing that any settlement monies paid to [Mr H] is in full and final 
settlement of these complaints and all claims advanced by [Mr H] in correspondence which 
any of the parties have or may have against each other, relating to or otherwise connected 
with these claims, whether or not such claims were expressly advanced in correspondence 
with our GC;
2. Settlement monies being paid to [Mr H] on a no admission of liability basis.
We would be grateful if you could confirm with [Mr H] whether these conditions are in 
principle agreed. IF so, we will prepare a draft settlement letter recording the above terms for 
him to sign, assuming that the redress calculation can be finalised and agreed by all parties. 
If this matter is not capable of settlement, GC reserves the right to refer this matter to the 
Ombudsman.
There followed a series of communications between this Service and Mr H and Gate Capital. 
These variously covered matters of what could and couldnt be included in the redress being 
calculated. Requests from the parties for information to help move matters forward. 
Feedback from this Service to make sure of proper adherence in the calculations to what the 
Investigator had determined. And various updates about the difficulty Gate Capital was 
having in securing the right expertise to undertake certain complex calculations.
I note that both parties have been trying to work towards settlement, based around the 
redress proposed by the Investigator. But to be fair, in particular to Mr H who has now been 
waiting for over a year for Gate Capital to finalise the calculations (and since February 2020 
when the Investigator first upheld his complaint), we need to move things onto a more formal 
footing to provide closure to all parties.
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month setting out how I thought matters should 
be brought to a conclusion. Mr H raised the issue of the time bar in relation to his original 
complaint about Gate capitals role in selecting BS to manage his SIPP. But he didnt bring 
any new evidence or arguments that change my mind.
Gate Capital responded on 9 November informing this Service it was doing all it could to get 
the redress calculations finalised. On 15 November it said the calculations would be finalised 
by week commencing 22 November. And its since committed to a later date.
While I have no reason to doubt the complexity of the calculations required, nor Gate 
Capitals good faith in trying to finalise this matter, I will not hold back from my final decision 
as it requested. Theres been a pattern of delays in making a compensation payment to Mr 
H, and while it has experienced difficulties, these are matters for it to manage. Mr H requires 
the certainty provided by an enforceable final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Given the most recent position of both parties has been to 
settle on the basis of the Investigators proposed redress from February 2020, and having 
reviewed all prior matters arising related to jurisdiction and the merits of this complaint, 
including the decisions and views already issued  the findings and conclusions of which I 
am in agreement with, for broadly the same reasons  my focus here is to direct Gate 
Capital Group Ltd to put things right.
Im also providing for additional financial compensation to Mr H in the event there are further 
significant delays in settling this matter.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Hs case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Gate Capital Group Ltd responsible for.
I think Mr H wouldve invested differently. It's not possible to say precisely what he wouldve 
done, but I'm satisfied that what I've set out below is fair and reasonable given his 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
I should also remind both parties of the important conclusion reached by the Ombudsman 
who looked at jurisdiction, and with whom I agree, which is important in terms of framing this 
redress:
For the avoidance of any doubt, should any complaints about the transfers into the SIPP be 
upheld, it follows that the reference point for calculating compensation would need to be the 
SIPPs value based on the benchmark Beaufort should have been working to for the attitude 
to risk it was actually given by Plutus  not the SIPPs current value.).
Given how close the parties appear to have been in terms of settling according to the 
Investigators view, I see no reason to disturb matters at this stage. To compensate Mr H 
fairly, Gate Capital Group Ltd needs to:
Compare the performance of Mr Hs investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. It should also pay 
any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Gate Capital should pay into Mr Hs pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. This should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. It shouldn't pay the compensation into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Gate Capital is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Hs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Hs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if he wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Gate Capital should provide the details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Gate Capital considers its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I'll accept if Gate Capital totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I've chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk. The FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset 
classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It's a fair measure for someone who 
was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Although its called income index, the 
mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a 
reasonable measure of comparison given Mr Hs circumstances and risk attitude.
Further information
Some examples of how calculations should be carried out are available on our website 
under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'
Provision for an award of interest
Any compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 30 days of the date 
Gate Capital Group Ltd receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 30 days, that 
it takes Gate Capital to pay Mr H.
Distress and inconvenience
In addition, Gate Capital Group Ltd should pay Mr H £300 for the unsuitable advice to 
transfer a fifth pension into his SIPP, which has caused him further upset and concern.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. I now require Gate 
Capital Group Ltd to pay him the redress Ive detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman