DRN-2079803
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with U K Insurance Limiteds (UKIs) decisions to reject his motor insurance 
claim and cancel his policy.
  
What happened
Mr N contacted UKI on 15 October 2019 to report an incident involving his vehicle on a 
motorway. UKI inspected Mr Ns vehicle and suspected the incident may not have occurred 
in the way he described. UKI sought a second opinion on this matter which they believed to 
give support to their suspicions. As a result of this UKI rejected Mr Ns claim and cancelled 
his insurance policy.
Mr N didnt agree with this, so he arranged for an engineer to inspect his vehicle and provide 
another report. Mr N also provided photographs of his vehicle and evidence from Highways 
England to support his description of the incident.
Agreement couldnt be reached between Mr N and UKI, so he brought the matter to our 
service. An investigator here felt there was sufficient evidence to be able to say the incident 
happened as described by Mr N. So, he felt the claim should be upheld. The investigator 
also said UKI ought to reimburse Mr N for the cost of his report and pay him £300 
compensation.
UKI didnt agree. They questioned Mr Ns evidence, raising some specific questions which 
they felt undermined his position on this matter.
Because of this, the case has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
The important evidence in this case is the reports and counter reports from engineers, which 
each party has provided. As well as photographs, and comment from Highways England.
Mr N has provided photographs showing his vehicle parked on the hard shoulder of a 
motorway. This shows a puddle of oil to the front and a trail of oil behind. Mr N says he found 
himself in this position having run over a metal object on the motorway. He believes this to 
have pierced the oil sump and led to smoke from the burning oil to the rear.
Mr N has provided an email from Highways England which says some metal shelving was 
removed from the motorway, and that whilst they didnt see the incident Mr N describes, they 
do recall seeing oil spilt on the hard shoulder.
Hes also provided some logs from Highways England. One of which refers to debris and an 
obstruction in the location provided and with the same date and approximate time of the 
incident Mr N described. And another which refers to a trail of oil.
This all provides reasonable grounds for me to consider Mr N had fair cause to make a claim 
on his motor insurance.
UKI inspected Mr Ns vehicle and their engineer said there was no evidence of oil deposits 
which would be expected in such circumstances. They said the damage appears to have 
been caused in a sideways motion, not front to rear as theyd expect with a moving vehicle. 
The engineer concluded that Mr N had caused the damage himself, possibly using a chisel, 
as a result of the engine failing.
Because of this, UKI sought a second opinion from a forensic engineer. Its notable that the 
forensic engineers report, says there was no lift/ramp available to assist with his inspection, 
and that examination of the underside of the vehicle was restricted. He felt that if the 
damage had been caused as described by Mr N, then there would have been an inward fold 
of metal. The forensic engineer suggested the damage may have been caused by a drill.
The forensic engineer also said there was a lack of oil deposits which would be expected in 
the incident described by Mr N. And that he wouldve expected to have found a fault code if 
thered been a loss of oil while the vehicle was being driven. In his conclusion, the forensic 
engineer recommended a more definitive opinion could be offered if the sump panel was 
removed for closer inspection.
I can understand why UKI rejected Mr Ns complaint on the basis of these reports. However, 
they were subsequently provided with a report that Mr N obtained.
Mr Ns engineer said he was able to perform his inspection from a pit, with the vehicle on a 
ramp. He addressed the concerns raised about the lack of oil deposits, saying there was 
evidence of oil on the underside. In particular, he references a photograph which he says is 
of the battery pack. And from this, it looks to me like staining is present.
Mr Ns engineer also addressed the lack of a fault code for loss of oil, he says the vehicle 
has a loss of oil pressure warning light but that its operation isnt recorded. And he pointed to 
a photo of Mr Ns vehicle showing a significant amount of oil having been released after the 
vehicle had come to a stop.
Mr Ns engineer suggested the damage couldnt have been caused prior to driving the 
vehicle on the motorway, and that the hole wouldve had to have been made at the scene, if 
UKIs theory were correct. He says it would be difficult to cause the damage with a chisel 
without adequate clearance  which he doesnt feel wouldve been available on the hard 
shoulder. And that doing so at the scene would also risk being covered in hot oil. And he 
points to a photograph he says shows a trail of oil in the wake of Mr Ns vehicle, after hed 
pulled on to the hard shoulder.
Mr Ns engineer was able to inspect the oil sump with it having been removed. His photos 
show an inward fold of metal, just as the forensic engineer said would be present if Mr Ns 
description were correct. So, I think in that respect UKIs forensic report supports Mr N.
Mr Ns engineer concluded that there was overwhelming evidence to support the damage 
occurring as described by Mr N.
In view of this, alongside the Highways England evidence, and in the absence of anything 
further to support the chisel theory  or at least dispel what Mr Ns engineer has said about how and when the damage couldve been done deliberately  Im persuaded that the 
incident did occur as described by Mr N. Given what UKI is suggesting happened, I think 
they would need to have provided stronger evidence. And I think its telling that they felt 
unable to support a referral to the insurance fraud register.
That said, further evidence was provided by each party. Mr Ns engineers report was looked 
at by UKIs forensic engineer, and they raised what they felt was significant reason to 
maintain their stance.
The forensic engineer highlights a photo which shows a chisel placed next to and in the 
puncture. He says it appears to be a perfect fit. But Im not overly persuaded by this, given it 
may not be difficult to find an object that fits a hole in a car part. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Mr N had a chisel of the same shape and size at the time.
And rather confusingly, the forensic engineer says this reinforces his original opinion that a 
chisel was used. He believes that as he and the original engineer reached the same 
conclusion, independently of one another, strongly suggests its correct. But youll remember 
that the forensic engineer didnt originally conclude that a chisel was used, he thought it was 
a drill. I think this undermines his conclusion and that hes been led to the same opinion as 
the original engineer.
And the above in no way explains to me how Mr N couldve made the incision at the 
roadside, bearing in mind what his engineer said about not being able to do it in advance, 
including the trail and spillage of oil, and clearing.
The forensic engineer points to another photo from the original inspection, and maintains 
that theres no evidence of oil contamination. But the same staining Mr Ns engineer pointed 
to can be seen in that photo too. Of course, I cant be sure what caused the staining, but Ive 
not seen anything to suggest it was caused by anything other than oil.
The forensic engineer says the lip of the tear suggests a sideways impact, not a front to rear 
impact as hed expect with the vehicle travelling at speed. And he felt that Mr N couldve 
gained sufficient clearance to make the damage at the roadside by using a jack. He said if 
the car had been travelling on electric  which both engineers say is possible  the oil would 
not have become hot. Although the temperature of the oil doesnt allay my concerns with the 
suggestion this was done at the roadside.
I just dont think its feasible that Mr N would pull over to the hard shoulder, jack up his 
vehicle, puncture the oil sump and then have his car recovered. This is further supported by 
the trail of oil that can be seen in some of the photos provided. And how could he have 
predicted that Highways England would at the same time, on the same day, and in the same 
location, find and remove debris from the scene.
I also note that the forensic engineer has said he does not accept an incident occurring in 
the manner described by Mr N is the only possible explanation. My reading of that is that he 
does consider it to be a possible explanation. And its one which has several layers of 
supporting evidence.
Ill turn now to UKIs main concerns about Mr Ns claim, those which arent addressed 
elsewhere in this decision.
In respect of the chisel theory and the damage appearing to have been made in a sideways 
motion, rather than a front to back one  as the vehicle was travelling forward at the time. 
Ive thought about this and understand why this might lead to some concern. But Mr N was 
on the motorway, presumably travelling at some speed, we dont know how high the debris on the motorway was, what angle it may have been at, or quite how it came to damage the 
sump. But I think its feasible, when considering the evidence as a whole, that a clean front 
to back motion may not always be the result. And I refer back to the forensic engineers 
suggestion that it was possible.
A comment has also been made that Mr N had several damaged cars on his driveway when 
his vehicle was recovered. This appears to me to be a suggestion that he may be in the 
habit of making or assisting false claims. But that would be very speculative in my opinion, 
and Ive seen nothing else that would lead me to such a conclusion, so I dont think it makes 
a difference in this case.
I appreciate the Highways England evidence doesnt specifically put Mr Ns vehicle at the 
scene. But as previously touched on, I dont see how else he would have known the time, 
location and need for debris to be recovered if he wasnt there.
 
UKI have said they cant see the oil trail referred to by Mr N and his engineer. My belief is 
that it is visible, and the existence of an oil trail has been supported by the Highways 
England report. UKI also says the location isnt showing on the photo, which theyd expect to 
see on the type of phone they believe to have been used to take it. But again, if this is a 
suggestion Mr N wasnt there, how would he know all the other information? Further, it 
seems to me that UKIs forensic engineer has verified the location in a photo he found from 
an internet search.
The engineer reports have referred to pre-existing damage and poor repairs previously 
carried out. I dont consider those to be relevant to the circumstances of Mr Ns claim, 
although they may well be relevant to any settlement that could result from it. Theres also 
been reference to engine failure and how or why that may have occurred. But thats not a 
decision for me to make in this case  Im considering whether or not Mr N adequately 
demonstrated his claim and whether UKI had sufficient grounds to reject it, and to cancel his 
policy.
For the reasons explained, I consider Mr N to have adequately shown the damage occurred 
as he described. And Ive not seen enough counter evidence from UKI to make me think he 
damaged his vehicle intentionally.
This matter has clearly caused Mr N unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Hes upset at 
being accused of making a false claim  which, from what Ive seen, he doesnt appear to 
have done. And hes had to go to some effort and expense in defending his position, as well 
as having to rely on others for lifts. That said, I appreciate why UKI initially felt the way they 
did so I dont believe them to have acted unreasonably throughout. Taking everything into 
account I think £300 represents adequate compensation in this case  alongside UKI having 
to deal with the claim and reimburse the cost of Mr Ns report.  
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to put things right as follows:
Reinstate Mr Ns policy and deal with his claim.
If the claim is cash settled, interest* should be added at the rate of 8% per annum 
simple, from the date of loss to the date settlement is paid.
Refund the £360 Mr N paid for his report, subject to the provision of evidence.
Remove any records of policy cancellation and fraud, if made, from internal and 
external databases.*HM Revenue and Customs requires UKI to deduct tax from this interest. UKI must give
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to put 
things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman