DRN-2970607
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr M. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002 alongside a credit account. Mr M was 
sold the policy when he signed a credit agreement that included an agreement to take PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
The form, which Mr M filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and I can see 
that Mr M signed separately on the form in the PPI section to say he wanted PPI.
Its unlikely AXA recommended the PPI as being suitable for Mr Ms individual needs. This 
means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It would have been for Mr M 
to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mr M clear and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mr M. 
So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But, in 
Mr Ms circumstances at the time, even if hed been given all the necessary information, I 
dont think its likely to have made a difference to his decision. I say this because its fairly 
likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than his full employer sick pay lasted. And it 
would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also it would have 
put off the time hed have had to fall back on any other means he had to pay his ongoing 
living costs, as well as this credit bill. Also it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any 
of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful, and better information 
probably wouldnt have made a difference to whether or not Mr M took the PPI.
Overall, I dont have strong evidence the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman