DRN-2058804
The complaint
Mr P opened a trading account with IG Markets Limited (IG) in 2006; he refers to his 
cryptocurrency (crypto) based Contracts for Differences (CFD) trading between 2018 and 
2019 in which he says he made losses of over £500,000 (including charges of over 
£90,000); he holds IG mainly or partly responsible for this and seeks, as a minimum, a 
refund of the charges incurred and payment of 10% of his losses as compensation; in the 
main, he says IG is culpable for the following  
Granting him the account and the ability to trade high risk crypto CFDs without 
appropriate checks on his capability to do so as a retail client, on affordability and on 
Anti-Money Laundering (AML) risks. [issue 1]
Using a misleading title for the crypto CFD product Ripple, which could reasonably 
have been mistaken for a stock of the same name. [issue 2]
Applying unclear charges for holding crypto CFDs. [issue 3]
Granting his application to exceed the notional value limit of £500,000 per client for 
crypto CFDs without assessing suitability. [issue 4]
Unduly enticing him with perks in order to encourage more trading. [issue 5]
Applying an unclear and unfair margin policy, which meant accumulation of 
unsolicited credit in the form of negative balances that initially did not trigger margin 
close outs  followed by margin close outs at points of increased negative balances 
(and at the least favourable prices). [issue 6]
What happened
IG disputes the complaint and has given detailed responses to all the issues raised. One of 
our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not be 
upheld. She too provided detailed treatment of all the issues raised, which broadly reflect the 
same details and points presented by IG. In the main, the findings against the complaint are 
as follows:
Issue 1  IG did not have a regulatory duty to assess appropriateness of the account 
in 2006, given that such duty first arose a year later in 2007; the duty does not extend 
to considering affordability; there is evidence of information provided by Mr P to IG in 
the course of his application for the account (including reference to previous CFD 
trading experience) which showed he had requisite knowledge and experience to 
engage in CFD trading, which IG would have been entitled to rely upon and which 
would have suggested the account was appropriate for him; and contrary to his 
assertion, regulations do not prohibit firms from offering crypto trading to retail clients. 
Issue 2  There is evidence that IGs platform explained what Ripple was, that it was 
a crypto and how it was traded; so IG met with its regulatory duty to communicate 
information in a clear, fair and not misleading way; and its description of Ripple was 
not misleading.
Issue 3  The same applies to information available on the platform about charges; 
said information was fair, clear and not misleading; and it was repeated in the fees 
and charges section of the help and support feature of IGs website.
Issue 4  Mr Ps account was based on an execution only service, so IG was not 
obliged to assess or advice on suitability (of a trading product or of his application to 
exceed the notional value limit); in addition, the relevant terms provided a warning on 
how such a step could affect the account.
Issue 5  Firms are not prohibited from making complimentary offerings to their 
clients.
Issue 6  Despite Mr Ps perception, as a regulated firm engaged in investment 
services IG does not provide credit facilities; there is a distinction between margin 
trading and the unsolicited credit argument he has made; and, as agreed in the terms 
for the account, the margin close outs in his case were triggered by his account funds 
reaching or breaching the 50% margin close out level.
Mr P disagreed with this outcome. His comments (and then the investigators responses) 
were mainly as follows:
The appropriateness test and the question of affordability should still be relevant to 
his case; IGs duty of care towards the vulnerability that clients have in gambling 
(which is comparable to CFD trading) has not been addressed; and there has been 
no treatment of IGs AML obligations  in response, the investigator noted that she 
had previously said IG conducted a test comparable to an appropriateness test; she 
repeated that appropriateness does not include affordability; she said there is no 
evidence that Mr P informed IG about any vulnerabilities (in terms of a gambling 
problem or affordability problem); and she also said there is no evidence of anything 
that should have given IG cause to be concerned about AML.
IGs offering of crypto CFD trading ought to have been coupled with appropriate 
safeguards given the complexity and high risks of such trading; IG did not provide 
such safeguards until it (and other firms) was forced by the regulator to do so.
He maintained his allegations in issue 2 and, with emphasis, issue 3  the 
investigator maintained her conclusions on both issues.
He did the same, with emphasis, on issue 4 and asserted that he received no 
warning about the application to exceed the notional value limit  the investigator 
also maintained her conclusion on this issue; she noted that Mr P is responsible for 
his decision to trade above the limit and that it would be unfair to pass that 
responsibility on to IG because the outcome of such trading was unsuccessful. 
He presented evidence of a complimentary offer (free tickets to watch a cricket 
game) from IG which he says was designed to encourage his trading  the 
investigator did not consider that the offer amounted to an inducement to trade.
He maintained his allegation in issue 6 and his argument about unsolicited credit  
the investigator also maintained her view on the matter.
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator for the same 
reasons she gave. I consider that the investigator provided a reasonably detailed rationale 
behind her view and I do not intend to repeat those details. I incorporate her reasons (as 
summarised above) into this decision and I observe that none of her references to facts 
and/or evidence appear to be in dispute  instead Mr P perceives those facts differently. I 
will concentrate mainly on the key findings (and on Mr Ps main points).Issue 1
No regulatory appropriateness assessment was required for Mr Ps account opening process 
in 2006  the regulators requirement of such an assessment was introduced in 2007. 
Nevertheless, there is evidence that part of the information he gave IG in the course of 
opening the account confirmed that he had more than 12 months previous experience in 
trading shares, CFDs and in spread betting.
Appropriateness, under the relevant rule (in COBS 10.2 of the regulators Handbook), is 
assessed upon information from a client to a firm about whether the client has sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the service or product offered 
by the firm. Even though this rule did not apply in 2006, if it did apply his confirmation of 
trading experience (as stated above) would more likely (than not) have resulted in the 
conclusion that he had enough knowledge, understanding and experience to make the 
account appropriate for him. 
The rules say a firm is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of information given by the client. 
Mr P appears to have cast some doubt on IGs record of information related to the opening 
of his account. However, evidence of that record appears to be reliable and in the absence 
of evidence that it had cause (or should have had cause) to doubt the information Mr P 
submitted at the time I am not persuaded to doubt it. If the appropriateness rule applied in 
2006 IG would have been entitled to rely on the information Mr P presented, as it did at the 
time.
Mr P has made arguments about affordability, vulnerability and AML. 
There appears to be no nexus between the AML argument and his claim. No incident(s) in 
this respect appears to have been alleged, instead the argument appears to be an isolated 
point in Mr Ps general criticism of IGs account opening and monitoring process. The task 
before me is to determine his complaint and claim for compensation, not to conduct a 
general assessment of IGs operations. If the AML argument was directly relevant to his 
claim I would address it, but it is not so it does not warrant further treatment.
The same applies to Mr Ps allegation that IG did not put safeguards in place until 
regulations were introduced which required them. This too appears to be generic and it 
seems implicit within the argument that he accepts IG applied such safeguards when 
regulations were created and required it to do so. As such, no regulatory wrongdoing 
appears to have been alleged. Furthermore, there is evidence of risk warnings made 
available to Mr P in a Risk Disclosure Notice that formed a part of the Customer Agreement 
for his account; and evidence of IG applying relevant European Securities and Markets 
Authority rules and safeguards for CFD trading as they became applicable.
Even if the appropriateness test applied in 2006, it does not extend  and would not have 
extended  to include an affordability sub-test. Affordability is usually a feature of a suitability 
assessment and, as the investigator explained, that differs from an appropriateness 
assessment. 
The regulators rule at COBS 2.1.1 (R) contains the clients best interests provisions and it 
says A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client. Its Handbook also includes a principle for firms  under Principle 6  to  pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. COBS 2.1.1 (R) also post 
dates 2006 but Principle 6 does not, so I have considered Mr Ps arguments about 
affordability and vulnerability under IGs overall responsibility to act fairly in line with his best 
interests at the time the account was opened and thereafter.Prior to his complaint, there is no evidence that Mr P brought to IGs attention any financial 
problems he faced in the course of his trading and/or any wider vulnerability issues he faced 
in that respect. There is also no evidence that he indicated to IG his trading and/or losses 
had become out of his control  and no evidence that IG ought reasonably to have drawn 
this conclusion from his account activities, especially as the execution only basis for the 
account meant IG was not obliged to monitor the account on his behalf. 
For firms in the sector, accounts accumulating losses or significant losses are not 
uncommon. Such losses, in isolation, would not have been enough to indicate to IG that Mr 
P was not in control of his trading and/or losses, or that he had an affordability problem. The 
same applies to the notion of wider vulnerability issues  in the absence of express notice to 
IG about such issues, losses in his account would not have automatically indicated their 
existence. Without awareness of any affordability or vulnerability issues faced by Mr P, I am 
not persuaded that the clients best interests rule was breached by IG in his case.
Issue 2
I do not find merit in this matter. There is evidence of Ripple being presented, within IGs 
platform, in the express context of a crypto CFD product, in a crypto market and based on an 
underlying crypto asset. IGs website provided further and informative description of the 
product. On balance, I consider it inconceivable that its status as a crypto CFD could have 
been unclear to Mr P given such context and descriptions (on the platform and website).
Issue 3
The same conclusion (as in issue 2) applies to issue 3. Between the relevant product 
information, market information tabs and the fees and charges section of IGs help and 
support website feature, reasonably clear information about charges relevant to CFD trading 
were accessible to Mr P. In addition, I do not consider that this type of information would 
have been alien to him given the prior CFD trading experience he referred to in the account 
opening process. On balance, it is also unlikely that he would have traded to the extent 
required to generate the losses he has referred to if he did not have meaningful awareness 
of the relevant charges  or if the charges were unclear to him. 
Issue 4
I am not persuaded by Mr Ps argument in this issue. With knowledge of the associated 
increase in risk exposure, he applied to exceed the notional value limit and chose to venture 
into trading above that limit. IG granted his application. It was not obliged to assess 
suitability of the application, given the execution only basis for the account. I have not seen 
evidence that IG was aware of, or ought reasonably to have been aware of, facts that would 
have made the application contrary to his best interests. Its decision to grant the application 
was within its reasonable commercial discretion  as it was within Mr Ps discretion as an 
account holder to make the application. Despite Mr Ps assertions, I do not consider that a 
wrongdoing has been established in this issue.
Issue 5
Mr P recently provided an example of the sort of complimentary offering from IG that he 
perceived to be an inducement to increase his trading  with the inherent suggestion that 
this was designed to increase IGs chances of profiting from an increase in his trading.
I accept that such offerings can be aimed at developing good relations between a firm and 
its account holders and that a by product from it could be the account holders indulging in a 
more relaxed or more adventurous attitude towards trading. However, this notion is distinct from a firm actively and explicitly inducing an account holder to trade more or to trade in a 
riskier fashion  and Mr P has not presented evidence of this.
The development of good relations between a firm and its account holders, through 
complimentary offerings, is not automatically a detrimental or cynical pursuit. The facts of 
each case should be considered on merit. Such a pursuit can bear benefits for both parties. 
The chance that it might make an account holder trade more or trade in a riskier fashion to 
his or her detriment depends on the account holder  it is not an inevitable outcome of 
complimentary offerings from a firm to its customers. In Mr Ps case, I have not seen 
evidence that IG made complimentary offerings that had an inevitable detrimental outcome.
Issue 6
I understand Mr Ps view of the financing element of CFD trading as being equivalent to 
unsolicited credit, but I disagree with it. The financing element is a result of the leveraged 
nature of CFD trading and it can be viewed as a form of borrowing  hence the applicable 
financing and holding charges  but it would be wrong to say it is unsolicited borrowing. An 
account holder that engages in leveraged or margin trading does so with the wilful intent to 
sustain such trading on the basis of the financing element  so, the opposite is the case and 
this element is expressly solicited by the account holder.
The effect of financing should not be confused with the margin call regime that applied in Mr 
Ps account.  Contrary to what he says, it would not have been the case that his financing 
liability was unfairly allowed to increase before a margin call was applied and that such 
liability should have been mitigated by IG through an earlier margin call. 
That liability was a part of the risk he would have undertaken in each relevant trade. The 
margin call was the effect of that risk reaching the point at which a determination could be 
made that equity in his account could no longer cater for  being the 50% level provided by 
regulation and applied by IG. Prior to this point  and prior to forced margin call closures of 
his trades  he retained responsibility and the ability to manage any relevant open trades 
and his account equity in order to avoid forced trade closures. This would have included the 
options of closing loss-making trades himself and/or adding funds to the account in order to 
keep them open. As such, the mitigation he appears to have expected from IG was his 
responsibility  not IGs. IG has referred to evidence of him receiving notices warning about 
margin calls, which should have prompted his reaction to mitigate accordingly. 
In light of the above, Mr Ps argument about unfair and unsolicited credit falls away. In 
addition, I have not seen evidence to establish, on balance, that IG manipulated prices as he 
appears to have suggested.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman