DRN-3330261
The complaint
Ms K has complained about the service she received from Covea Insurance plc under her motor 
policy following the theft of her car.
What happened
Ms K had a person staying in her house who she decided should be put on her motor policy 
as a named driver as Ms K was also suffering ill health. She went abroad to see a friend for 
a few days and when she was away, her named driver reported her car stolen. 
Sadly, this named driver didnt cooperate with Covea in validating the claim. Her car was 
later found and Covea put it storage whilst still trying to get the named driver to validate the 
claim that her car had been stolen, which sadly didnt happen. Therefore Covea couldnt deal 
with Ms Ks claim for the loss of her car given Covea deemed it a total loss as it was 
damaged. Ms K then entered into a separate agreement with the salvage company, for them 
to buy her car for £500. This wasnt anything to do with Covea. 
Ms K first raised a complaint with this service which was resolved by the investigator 
concerning several service issues Ms K had with Covea. The investigator was of the view 
that Covea had acted fairly but should pay Ms K £100 compensation. Both Covea and Ms K 
agreed with the investigators recommendations so that complaint was resolved. 
Ms K then raised this complaint about the service she received after January 2021 namely 
the following:
That Covea didnt provide any copy of the salvage report or repair estimate when Ms K 
asked for it.
That Covea took her car to a salvage yard over 200 miles away from her home.
And why was her car moved to a salvage yard when it wasnt salvage. 
The investigator thought Covea did give Ms K the repair estimate when she asked for it. That 
it was within Coveas right to store her car where it could and there was nothing wrong in 
storing it at salvage yard.
Ms K didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, however, I should point out that Covea was not at fault for anything the named driver 
did or didnt do here. It was Ms Ks decision alone to put this person on her motor policy as a 
named driver and sadly this person didnt cooperate with Covea, nor it appears with Ms K 
either, in order to the validate the claim he made that Ms Ks car had been stolen. So, this 
lack of cooperation by this named driver ultimately led to the loss of Ms Ks car because 
Covea couldnt validate the claim of her car being stolen and then recovered. That remains a 
matter between Ms K and this named driver only. That isnt an issue that falls under the 
policy conditions of the policy between Ms K and Covea. Neither can I deal with anything to 
do with the transfer of ownership the DVLA received as that again has nothing to do with 
Covea and indeed neither is it part of this complaint. Ms K remains free to pursue her named 
driver should she wish too, but thats a matter for Ms K only to consider herself and that isnt 
covered by this policy and nor is it the responsibility of Covea to assist her in this.
  
My duty here is solely to assess if Covea did anything wrong in the limited remit of this 
second complaint. I cant make any judgement on Ms Ks named driver at all. I cant revisit 
any of the issues in the first complaint either, which has now been resolved. 
So, what I shall deal with is the following only:
That Covea didnt provide any copy of the salvage report or repair estimate when Ms K 
asked for it.
That Covea took her car to a salvage yard over 200 miles away from her home.
And why was her car moved to a salvage yard when it wasnt salvage. 
The salvage or repair report.
This report is something thats complied by Covea and at Coveas cost. As the investigator 
explained its not routinely shared with policyholders as generally there is no need to share 
it. So, there was no duty for Covea to share this with a policyholder such as Ms K, as a 
matter of course. 
When Ms K asked Covea for it, it gave it her a copy. So consequently, theres nothing to 
show me that Covea did anything wrong here.
The location of the salvage yard
When a car has been reported stolen as Ms Ks was and when it then later recovered, 
Covea being the insurer has a duty to assess any damage to the car and indeed assess 
whether there is any theft damage to make sure the theft happened as it was alleged. 
The matter was somewhat protracted due to the lack of co-operation by this named driver. 
Covea also believed the car would be a total loss. Its Coveas decision as to where they 
store any car in this situation and the fact it was so far away from Ms Ks home doesnt have 
much bearing on the matter in real terms.
Had the claim progressed and had been accepted by Covea, Ms Ks car would have been 
safe, for either repair, or agreement as to its market value both of which Covea would have 
paid for. 
So, I dont consider the location of where the car was stored showed that Covea did anything 
wrong. I do appreciate that Ms K was put off that her car was so far away but theres no 
evidence she talked to Covea about this or asked to collect her car or asked to see her car, 
so on that basis there is nothing to show me Covea did anything wrong.
Why store the car in a salvage yard when the car wasnt salvageCovea did think the car could well turn out to be a total loss, therefore there was little wrong 
with then storing the car at a salvage yard. As I explained above it doesnt really matter 
where a car is stored once its safe until the end of the claims process. 
The claims process wasnt able to continue because the claim couldnt be validated because 
the name driver didnt respond to Covea or indeed to Ms K. Thats not Coveas fault either. 
Once it was clear the claim couldnt be finalised then it was up to Ms K to decide what she 
wanted to do with her car. She chose to have the salvage yard buy the salvage value of her 
car. That was an arrangement she entered into independently with the salvage yard. Again, 
this was nothing to do with Covea. So, Ms K didnt lose out in real terms because her car 
was stored at a salvage yard. Therefore, I cant see that Covea disadvantaged her in this 
regard either. 
I appreciated this entire event has been deeply distressing for Ms K and that shes suffering 
from poor health throughout the whole episode. Im also sorry that it appears her named 
driver appears to have put her in the situation that her claim for the loss of her car couldnt 
be concluded by Covea. But none of that is Coveas fault. Had Covea received the 
appropriate information from the named driver, it is more than likely Ms K would have either 
been able to have her car repaired or Covea would have paid her market value for her car, 
so she could buy another one. 
My final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman