DRN-2550349
The complaint
Mr G and Ms K complain about how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) 
dealt with a chargeback claim.
What happened
Mr G and Ms K bought goods to the value of just over £4,000 using their AESEL account 
card. Mr G says he received the delivery and realised that the box was too light and was 
empty. He says they asked AESEL to obtain a refund from the seller and also made a 
complaint to the Police. Mr G and Ms K would like the money refunded.
AESEL says it raised a chargeback as Mr G and Ms K dont have rights under S75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. It says the merchant defended the claim and provided evidence 
the item was delivered. And Mr G and Ms Ks neighbour signed for the delivery which was 
weighed at the same time, which matched the dispatch weight. AESEL says it had no choice 
but to deduct the refunded money from Mr G and Ms Ks account and told them it would do 
so if the chargeback was unsuccessful.
Mr G and Ms K brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. The investigator explained the chargeback rules and thought AESEL was entitled 
to consider the evidence the merchant had provided and reasonably conclude it could not 
take the matter further forward. The investigator thought Mr G had said he signed for the 
delivery, but it appeared it was a neighbour.
Mr G and Ms K doesnt accept that view and would like their money refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I realise 
Mr G and Ms K will be disappointed by my decision.
The chargeback rules are set by the card providers and there is no guarantee of success if 
one is raised. And the scheme is voluntary. We normally expect a chargeback to be raised 
unless there is little or no realistic prospect of success.
Im satisfied AESEL did raise a chargeback but could not raise a claim under S75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 as the payment was not by a credit card. I can see that AESEL refunded Mr 
G and Ms K the money but made it clear that money may be deducted if the chargeback was 
unsuccessful. Im satisfied that is what took place here, that the merchant provided evidence 
the item was delivered and the weight on receipt matched the dispatch weight. So, I think 
AESEL was reasonably entitled in those circumstances to conclude that it couldnt take 
matters any further forward and made the decision to deduct the money.
I appreciate Mr G and Ms K question if the item was weighed on delivery. But I make clear to 
them that AESELs role here is not to investigate what exactly took place and must, as I 
have explained, follow the chargeback rules. And I think AESEL is not responsible for 
whatever took place and has to consider the evidence it was given about the box being 
weighed on delivery and receipt.
Overall, Im satisfied that AESEL tried to assist Mr G and Ms K but was entitled to 
reasonably conclude it couldnt continue the chargeback process as it had been given 
evidence of delivery and weight. I find that in those circumstances it was entitled to debit Mr 
G and Ms Ks account with the payment amount and that it fairly told them it would do so. 
For those reasons I cant fairly order AESEL to repay the money.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman