DRN-2941352
The complaint
X, a limited company, has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited as it has declined a 
claim it made when a property it owns suffered water damage.
What happened
X lets properties. A property of Xs was undergoing some renovation between tenants. The 
previous tenant had left in May 2018 and a new kitchen was due to be fitted in 
October 2018. When contractors lifted the flooring on 9 October 2018 they found the floor 
below was wet. Upon investigation this moisture was found to extend into the bathroom. The 
problem was traced to a fault on the stop-cock. The fault meant that even though the water 
in the property had been switched off, the leak had continued.  
X contacted its broker to make a claim. The broker asked X for some more details, and 
noted that X would continue with getting the work done as time was now important with a 
new tenancy pending. The broker advised that records were kept separately of the insured 
and uninsured work that was to be done. It was only on 25 October, once all the work had 
been done and an invoice was presented to the broker that it made the claim to Aviva. 
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster and consideration was given to the claim. But the adjuster 
had some concerns as he didnt think the photos provided to evidence the loss showed any 
water damage. He noted the invoice presented to evidence the work done was actually from 
X, it had done the work itself. The adjuster also felt some costs on the invoice were 
over-stated, and that some uninsured work had been included. The adjuster raised this last 
concern with X. X said there might be some minimal uninsured work included but the 
majority was for resolving the water damage, X said it would be happy for the adjuster to 
determine what costs were due. 
Aviva then decided to decline the claim, based on an exclusion and two conditions 
precedent (conditions which can affect Avivas overall liability for a loss). The conditions 
precedent require X to notify Aviva of a claim within five days of a loss and to do certain 
things whilst the property is unoccupied. The exclusion allows Aviva to decline liability for 
water damage caused by leaking pipes where a property has been unoccupied for more 
than 30 days.
X objected to the decline. X said that the damage had been long-standing and concealed, it 
referred to cuboidal cracking of the joists. It said this indicated the damage must have 
begun whilst the previous tenant was in-situ, and couldnt have been known about until the 
flooring was lifted. Aviva said it felt its position had likely been prejudiced by the work having 
been done before the claim was made as it hadnt been able to see the property in its 
damaged state. Regarding the other condition precedent it said that if regular checks of the 
property had been completed, a smell or some sign of the on-going and worsening damage 
would have been noted. 
X complained to this service. X also asked for lost rent as the start of the new tenancy had 
been delayed due to the discovery and rectification of the water damage. Our investigator 
noted the policy exclusion and that the property had been empty. He didnt uphold the 
complaint. X asked for an ombudsmans consideration and the complaint was passed to me.
I felt it should be upheld in part and issued a provisional decision to explain my views. My 
provisional findings were:
 
Conditions precedent
These have the effect that, if not complied with, Aviva may well be able to deny liability for 
the loss X has claimed for. But it isnt for Aviva to evidence that any non-compliance caused 
or directly affected the loss. Rather the Insurance Act 2015 sets out that an insurer may not 
rely on a breach to deny liability if:
the insuredshows that the non-compliance with the term could not have increased the risk 
of the loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in which it occurred.
Whilst Aviva has sought to rely on the conditions as part of its defeat of the claim, its never 
really addressed the issues in light of what the legislation requires. So Ive taken into 
account the situation, the submissions of both parties and what the legislation says in order 
to determine if Aviva, in my view, can reasonably rely on the notification and unoccupancy 
conditions to defeat its liability.
 
Notification
It isnt in doubt that, in breach of the condition, Aviva was notified late  more than five days 
after the damage was found. But when the damage was found on 9 October, the loss had 
already occurred. And X was already working to resolve the cause of the damage, as well as 
the damage itself. So the failure by X to comply with the condition precedent which required 
it to tell Aviva within five days of a loss, did not increase the risk of the loss. It may have 
increased Avivas risk of exposure to that loss but that is not allowed for by the legislation. 
As Xs breach of this condition did not increase the risk of the loss, Aviva cant then deny 
liability on the basis of that breach of this condition precedent. 
Unoccupancy 
This requires X to do various things when the property is unoccupied. Of relevance here are 
the requirements to drain down the water system and check the property regularly. 
Aviva doesnt seem to dispute that the water system at the property was drained, and/or 
does seem to accept that the nature and location of the leak meant the system being drained 
did not or would not have prevented the loss. So I wont say any more about this aspect of 
the unoccupancy condition.
Regarding checking the property, as far as Ive seen, Aviva has implied that checks werent 
done as its said if there had been then signs of the on-going leak would have been seen. 
But X has said its sent detail to Aviva previously of checks that were done. The condition 
only requires the policyholder to:
inspect the property at least weekly to check that the foregoing conditions are observed 
and to
keep a record of these inspections and make this available [to Aviva] for inspection.
The foregoing conditions are quite specific; they include things like keeping the utilities off, 
keeping the external doors and ground floor windows locked and not letting rubbish 
accumulate. Theres no over-arching requirement to inspect every detail in every room of the 
property to ensure nothing at all, that might fall for cover under the insurance, is wrong. And 
theres no more detail or express direction in respect of the records that are to be made and 
kept. So if X has shown a list of weekly checks were done, then it has not breached the 
unoccupancy condition. However, if there is no list, or the list does not show checks were done every single week, 
then X would reasonably be said to be in breach of the condition. X has sent us copies of 
some checks, but not the full list. If only those checks were done, the property wasnt 
checked weekly. X then appears to be in breach of this condition, so I need to consider 
whether X has shown that breach didnt increase the risk of loss. 
In this instance Im mindful that its not unusual for me to see complaints about claims where 
damage is concealed at a property. And the reports of how and why the damage was found 
vary. Sometimes there is a smell which alerts the property owner to the issue. Sometimes it 
is only when opening up work is done for another purpose that the problem is found. Im also 
mindful that X has argued that the damage was so long-standing in nature that the loss 
pre-dates the property becoming unoccupied. Whilst that is possible  it would still have 
been progressing  the risk of loss increasing  whilst the property remained unoccupied.
 
What X hasnt, to date, provided is any expert evidence which supports its position that the 
any breach of the unoccupancy condition by it in respect of checking the property, did not 
increase the risk of loss. But X has presented confirmation that the property was checked 
when it became vacant  and Im prepared to accept that if there was any noticeable sign of 
the below floor damage in the kitchen at that time, the property wouldnt have been left 
untouched for months. I say that as once the damage was found, it was rectified. But also 
because photos of the kitchen taken on 8 October 2018 show no visible signs of an issue. 
There is no sign of fungus or damp, and the flooring, whilst dirty, doesnt seem to be 
showing signs of moisture damage. Admittedly photos wouldnt show how that kitchen 
smelled  but without visible signs of an issue Im prepared to accept that any smell from the 
rotting joists may well have been concealed too. Im not convinced that if the property had 
been checked every week in line with the condition, that would have changed the position. 
So I dont think Xs non-compliance increased the risk. As such Aviva cant fairly or 
reasonably rely on Xs breach of the unoccupancy condition to decline the claim. 
What does the policy offer cover for?
Ive found Aviva cant rely on the condition to decline the claim. So I need to consider what 
liability under the policy exists. 
  
This policy is of the type known as all-risks. This means it offers covers for damage, it 
isnt restricted to covering only damage caused by certain events, such as an escape of 
water from the propertys water system. But the damage in question has to have occurred 
during the term of the policy. 
There has been some debate about how long the leak had been on-going and causing 
damage. Xs broker has argued, and Aviva seems to accept, that it may have been going on 
for more than five months before it was discovered in October 2018. Xs policy with Aviva in 
2018 began in March. So the damage, beginning before May 2018, did still occur during the 
term of the policy. Even if Aviva could show the damage had mostly likely been occurring 
since before it provided Xs cover, its still the case that damage was occurring, and 
significant damage at that, during the term of Avivas policy.
Exclusions
Like all policies there are exclusions that apply which limit what damage Aviva will be liable 
for. Of relevance here is an exclusion which removes Avivas liability for damage caused by 
an escape of water when the property has been unoccupied for more than 30 days. 
An exclusion works differently to the conditions precedent in that it is up to Aviva to present 
evidence to show its reliance on an exclusion is justified. In this case that means it has to show that the damage was caused by an escape of water and that the property being 
unoccupied for more than 30 days was material to the loss which occurred. 
Aviva has taken the detail X has provided about the location of the leak as meaning it was 
from piping that did not belong to Xs property. That detail though doesnt quite say that. But 
X does seek to suggest that a leaking water pipe situated before the mains supply for its 
property would not equate to an escape of water. Thats seemingly because X feels that a 
pipe in that location is not part of the propertys water apparatus. But the exclusion isnt that 
restrictive  it is in respect of (my emphasis) escape of water from any tank apparatus or 
pipe [sic]. In any event, I think the pipe must have belonged to the property, otherwise 
Xs contractors wouldnt have been able to fix it. So I think, the exclusion being specifically 
related to damage caused by escape of water, does not present a bar to Aviva relying on it 
to defeat the claim. 
However, the period of unoccupancy has to have been shown by Aviva to have had 
significance to the loss. In other words, if the property had not been unoccupied for more 
than 30 days, the damage would have been discovered earlier. In this respect my 
considerations are similar to those set out above in respect of the condition precedent. But in 
respect of the exclusion, Avivas loss adjuster has commented that significant damage such 
as was found here when the floor was opened up, would usually be manifest in the room 
above, with things such as fungus growing or flooring being affected. Hes said anyone in the 
property would likely notice a strong smell and bug infestations. So the adjuster feels that if 
the property had not been unoccupied the damage would have been noted. 
I dont doubt his view about the way this type of damage can manifest in the wider property. 
I accept that these types of signs can sometimes be found, alerting the user of the property 
to the fact of the on-going leak. But, as mentioned above, that is not always the case. And 
the evidence Ive seen and commented on above, when considering the breach of the 
condition precedent, shows that none of those signs were evident here. So Im not 
persuaded that the property having been unoccupied for more than 30 days was relevant to 
the loss which occurred and is being claimed for. As such Aviva has not persuaded me that 
it fairly and reasonably sought to rely on the exclusion to cover to defeat Xs claim. 
Aviva has pointed out to us that, irrespective of the unoccupancy, rot and gradual damage 
are also the focus of policy exclusions. I accept that they are. However, because the 
damage was concealed and because the rot was caused by the water leak, it wouldnt be 
fair for Aviva to seek to rely on these exclusions to defeat the claim either. 
What needs to be done now 
As Aviva hasnt shown it can rely on the condition precedent or any exclusions to defeat the 
claim, then it will need to re-consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. Ive noted in my background above that it has various concerns 
about the claim and/or any settlement that might be due. But because it has declined all 
liability for the loss the claim hasnt progressed to a point where it has reached a final view 
on these issues, or shared any final conclusion on them with X. Further X has not had the 
chance to put forward its view on most of these concerns, nor raise a complaint about any 
position Aviva has taken (because none has yet been taken). So as these issues have not 
yet reached a position of stalemate, they arent for me to comment on as part of this 
complaint. When Aviva re-considers the claim, without reliance on the conditions precedent 
or exclusions discussed here, it will have to take into account the part of Xs claim for lost 
rent. Once Aviva reaches a position on the claim, it will have to share it with X. If X remains 
unhappy then it may make a further complaint.
Solicitors acting for X confirmed X had no further comment to make. Aviva objected to my 
findings. In summary Aviva said:Its position has been severely prejudiced by the claim only being notified after the 
damage was repaired. If it had been able to view the damage it would have obtained an 
expert view on whether it would likely have reached a point of the floors having needed 
repair before the policy began in March 2018.
Its reviewed the photos and think they do show staining. And it thinks its telling that in 
the photos all units and appliances have been removed from what it says was the worst 
affected side of the kitchen. 
It strongly believes the floor would have been spongy and there would have been a bad 
smell due to extent of damage to the joists and floors. Particularly as thered been no 
heating on because the water system was drained.
It needs to see evidence of the previous tenants rental payments which it has requested 
before as it may be this tenant has some information about the condition of the property. 
This would also have allowed it to consider policy liability in respect of insurable interest 
depending on which party rent was paid to.
If details of the tenant had been provided it would have asked for evidence of inspections 
from when they left the property.
It struggles with the idea that there was an urgent need for X to complete work in 
October 2018 when, by that time, the property had already been empty since May 2018.
The policyholder had not made a claim for lost rent, but if they had and it hadnt 
repudiated the damage claim, the fact of and reason for the gap in tenancy would have 
been explored.
It thinks, if I make it re-consider the claim, it should be able to do so against all the terms 
and conditions of the policy, and this should be restricted so loss of rent is not included.
It wants a chance to fully investigate matters, including the gap in tenancy with a view to 
validating whether the loss occurred during the policy period.
Other liability aspects need consideration too which werent looked at before due to 
repudiation of the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its far from ideal that repairs were done before Aviva was notified of the claim. Whilst 
I appreciate that work was planned for the property with a tenancy lined up, and that X took 
advice from its broker, it should have given its insurer the chance to investigate. However, 
Im mindful that I see many situations similar to this where the policyholder calls the insurer 
to make notification and the insurers direction, in order to mitigate other loss, is to go ahead 
with work but take photos to evidence the damage. I dont know if Aviva wouldve done that 
here, but its possible. And Aviva still had a chance to investigate the issue of policy liability 
as well as making enquiries in order to validate the claim even despite the late notification. 
Im also mindful that before I made my provisional findings Aviva was given the opportunity 
to view photos of the kitchen pre-repair and provide any expert opinion, if it wished to, on the 
damage. The comments it made were taken into account by me. Im not going to reiterate 
my findings here but they are copied above. And whilst Aviva now refers to seeing staining 
on the floor which it appears to be linking to the below floor damage  it hasnt sought to 
show me which photos and what area of the floor it is referring to as showing damage. As far 
as I can see, the photos only show a dirty floor. As I understand it, it was only after removal 
of the kitchen had started that Xs workers became aware there might be a problem at the 
property. Ive seen nothing that makes me think the units were removed to hide damage.If there was necessary evidence Aviva had wanted to see but which it felt X was not 
providing, Aviva had the choice to utilise the policy term which requires X to provide full 
cooperation. It did not. In any event the previous and current tenancy agreements were 
provided to Aviva and Aviva could have made enquiries about inspections undertaken at the 
property, but it did not. 
Again, I think Aviva could have investigated the gap in tenancy earlier. But, as I understand 
it, and referred to in my background above, the need for work to be done quickly in October 
was because there was an incoming tenant to get the property ready for. If X doesnt want to 
pursue a claim for lost rent then Aviva wont need to consider one. Although Xs 
representative in February 2019 told Aviva no claim for lost rent was being made, a claim for 
lost rent progressing would always have been dependant on the damage claim succeeding. 
So I dont think theres any good reason to say Aviva shouldnt consider this now.
Im not going to allow Aviva to start its review of its overall policy liability and specifically its 
liability for this claim, from scratch. Its too late now for that to be a fair resolution. Despite 
the late notification Aviva had every opportunity to explore the issues relevant to it. It chose 
to rely on policy terms so cant reasonably now seek to challenge the overall validity of the 
policy. And, with regard to the terms and conditions (including the exclusions mentioned 
above) that it chose to rely on when declining the damage claim  if its realised now that 
there are some other things it should have looked at or thought about thats unfortunate, but 
it doesnt get a second chance. Thats because its up to it to deal with something like this as 
a whole, its not reasonable for it to approach it in a piecemeal fashion. My final decision, 
should X accept it within the deadline given, is that it is liable for the water damage claim. 
But it will be able to consider the claim itself, and its extent of liability for the sums claimed, in 
light of the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Thats because its reasonable that 
matters like the extent of the loss it is liable for werent progressed before because it 
declined liability for the claim as a whole outright. If X still wants Aviva to consider a claim for 
it in respect of lost rent, Aviva will need to do that.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to reconsider Xs claim for water damage, and lost rent if X wants it to, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
Im uphold the complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman