DRN-3972267
The complaint
Mr C complains about a late payment fee and credit marker that Santander UK Plc applied 
to his credit card account.
What happened
Mr C forgot to make a payment to his credit card in December 2002. Because of this 
Santander applied a £12 Late Payment Fee to the next statement and reported the missed 
payment to credit reference agencies. Mr C complained saying he forgot to set up a direct 
debit as he didnt often use the account.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint saying they hadnt made any mistakes and that Mr C 
had been told about the payment due on his credit card statement. 
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought Santander had acted fairly and in 
line with the account terms and conditions. 
Mr C remained unhappy saying he rarely uses the card and Santander couldve refunded the 
fee as a gesture of good will but had refused to do so. Because an agreement couldnt be 
reached the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The credit card statement dated 24 November 2022 said a minimum payment of £9.40 was 
due to be paid before 20 December 2022. It gave details of several ways to make the 
payment and also explained what would happen if the payment wasnt received, which 
included charging a £12 late fee. 
No payment was received by the due date so a Late Payment fee was applied to the 
account. This also meant that Santander was able to report a late payment marker to credit 
reference agencies. Both of these things are a true reflection of what happened on the 
account and also in accordance with the terms and conditions.  
Mr C said he rarely uses the card and forgot to set up a direct debit. He also says that 
Santander couldve refunded the fee as a gesture of goodwill. And Mr C is right; Santander 
couldve done that, but they chose not to. I would only ask for the fee to be refunded if I 
thought a mistake had been made, but thats not the case. A payment was missed and a late 
payment fee was correctly charged.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Santander acted fairly 
and reasonably when administering the account s wont be asking them to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman