DRN-3109433
The complaint
On S behalf, Mr H complains about delays and problems when applying for a business bank
account with Ulster Bank Ltd.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
On behalf of S, Mr H applied for a business bank account with Ulster Bank in February 
2020. At the beginning of March 2020 Ulster Bank emailed Mr H and asked him to submit 
supporting documents to complete the application. Mr H has told us he sent the required 
documents to Ulster Bank after receiving its email and waited to hear from it concerning 
the progress of S application. Ulster Bank says it didnt receive the documents Mr H 
posted.
At the end of April 2020 Ulster Bank emailed Mr H and explained that there were delays 
processing applications caused by the pandemic.
In the middle of August 2020 Ulster Bank contacted Mr H again and apologised for the 
delay in processing S application. Ulster Bank asked Mr H to provide documents again. Mr 
H has told us he took the required documents into branch and asked a member of staff to 
confirm hed provided the necessary information. Mr H says the member of staff contacted 
the department processing S application and later called him to confirm he had supplied 
the required documents.
At the end of August 2020 Mr H received an email from Ulster Bank that asked him to 
return a completed application form and documents in order to avoid the application being 
closed. Mr H has explained he had recently taken those documents into branch so didnt 
realise further action was required.
Ulster Bank says it didnt receive all the documents required and didnt take S application 
forward. Ulster Bank then explained it wasnt accepting any further applications.
Mr H complained on S behalf but Ulster Bank didnt agree to relook at his application. 
Ulster Bank said there was outstanding information required in August 2020. Ulster Banks 
email final response dated 5 November 2020 said its New Accounts department had 
received the documents Mr H presented in branch but that they werent sufficient to 
progress the application. It didnt say why. Ulster Bank sent Mr H a gift and £50 voucher.
Mr H referred S complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought 
Ulster Bank had dealt with S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr 
H asked to appeal, so S complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there were extensive delays dealing with S application. Ulster Bank has 
advised the delays were caused by pressures resulting from the pandemic. I agree that 
the delay was inconvenient, but Im satisfied it was largely outside Ulster Banks control.
Ive considered how Ulster Bank handled S application and the level of communication it 
had. The information provided from Ulster Bank isnt clear, but its final response accepts 
Mr H took S documents into branch and they were submitted to New Accounts. The final 
response advises that, whilst the documents submitted to the branch were forwarded to 
New Accounts, further information was required to progress the application. It doesnt say 
what information remained outstanding. The final response also says New Accounts 
contacted Mr H but he failed to submit the rest of the documents required.
On the other hand, Mr H says that when he took S documents to branch a member of 
staff contacted New Accounts to check whether he had brought everything. Mr H says the 
member of staff wasnt able to verify that whilst he was in branch but later called him back 
and confirmed he had submitted the required information.
Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed by the parties involved, Ill base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have 
happened based on all the available information. In this case, Ulster Banks final response 
confirms Mr H did take documents into branch in August 2020 that were then sent to the 
New Accounts department. I note Ulster Banks submissions also say Mr H failed to 
submit a signed application form, mandate or supporting information. And Ulster Banks 
final email to Mr H in September 2020 said no additional information had been submitted 
after April 2020. Ive found the dates and information provided by Ulster Bank to be 
somewhat contradictory in this case.
For instance, Im not persuaded that as late as August 2020 Mr H had failed to submit a 
signed application and basic supporting documents like a mandate. Mr H has told us he 
provided those documents in branch despite havent previously posted them to Ulster 
Bank. And Ulster Banks final response accepts Mr H did take documents into branch but 
doesnt say what they were.
I think its more likely than not that, after waiting such a long time and having previous 
submissions go missing, Mr H did take the required documents into branch and asked a 
member of staff for help. I find Mr Hs testimony to be persuasive and consistent. I dont 
think its likely that after waiting such a long time for the application to be processed Mr H 
wouldve failed to provide basic supporting information like a signed application form and 
mandate.
The information Ive seen supports Mr Hs view that clear guidance wasnt provided during 
the application process. And, as Ive said above, I think its more likely than not that Mr H 
did take S documents into branch  as accepted in Ulster Banks final response. In my 
view, if Ulster Bank had given Mr H clearer guidance about what was happening with his 
application it would most likely have been considered in full by the New Accounts team.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to provisionally uphold S complaint. Mr 
H says he wants the account to be opened for S, but Ulster Bank says its not accepting 
any more applications. I cant force Ulster Bank to accept an application from S Im afraid. 
Mr H can consider whether to apply again if applications reopen. But, I think S has been 
put to a reasonable level of inconvenience in this case. Im satisfied Mr H has supplied 
documents to Ulster Bank and that, even accepting the unavoidable delays, it couldve been more proactive in updating him and providing information about the progress of the 
application.
Ulster Bank has already sent Mr H a £50 voucher and gift. I intend to increase the award to 
take into account the time Mr H had to spend dealing with the application and the 
inconvenience caused. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to tell Ulster 
Bank to pay S a further £150 to reflect the inconvenience caused by the way its application 
was handled.
I invited Mr H and Ulster Bank to respond with any comments they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Mr H responded to say he would accept. Ulster Bank 
responded to say it had nothing further to add. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given any new information, I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still think S complaint should be upheld, for the same 
reasons.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold S complaint and direct Ulster Bank Ltd to pay it a further £150.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision on behalf of S before 12 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman