DRN-3781213
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax reduced the amount she could 
borrow after it made her a mortgage promise. She said reducing the amount made no 
sense, as her salary actually went up in this time. 
What happened
Miss B said she was given a mortgage promise letter setting out how much she could 
borrow from Halifax. She was promised £239,210 so put an offer in on a property on that 
basis. She then had a meeting to get the promise confirmed, less than a fortnight later, but 
found her lending was reduced by £5,000, although shed actually had a pay rise in that 
time. She wanted Halifax to explain that. She thought the wording promise was very 
misleading.
Miss B said her original loan offer wasnt just higher, it was also over a longer period. And 
Halifax told her to expect payments of around £1,080 per month on that offer amount. She 
said Halifax then told her, twelve days later, she couldnt afford this. She was only offered a 
loan of £234,540. She said she had to accept the offer, to keep the property. And then, when 
she received the offer, it was for 22 years, and involved higher monthly payments. 
Miss B said telling her that she couldnt afford the larger amount over a slightly longer term 
didnt make sense, as her monthly payments were higher now anyway. Miss B also said 
shed planned to take out a mortgage over 28 years, but Halifax reduced this to 22 years 
when she got the final offer. 
Miss B wanted the original mortgage promise to be honoured.
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong. It appreciated it had reviewed the initial 
agreement in principle and reduced its lending, but this wasnt a mistake. Halifax said it just 
cant guarantee the mortgage until an offer is done, because there are a number of factors 
which can affect lending before then. 
Halifax said it had noted Miss Bs comments on the mortgage promise. It did think the 
document as a whole was clear that it wasnt binding on Halifax, but Halifax said it would 
make sure Miss Bs feedback on this was noted. 
When this complaint came to our service, Halifax said that a mortgage promise is not a 
guarantee to lend. Rather, it's a guide as to what Halifax can provisionally lend based upon 
the information it had received and Halifaxs affordability assessment completed at that time. 
The promise doesnt take account of the property Miss B was planning to buy, and it is 
subject to further checks. But Halifax said that the promise document itself also makes clear 
that lending will be subject to a number of further checks. And Halifax wanted to let us know 
that it had referred this case specifically to its underwriters for a manual review, but the 
decision stands.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she was satisfied that 
Halifax had acted in a fair manner. She said the shorter lending term was set by Miss Bs 
budget. The mortgage promise wasnt a guarantee to lend, and the document itself did make 
that clear. And she said she couldnt see mistakes in Halifaxs lending decision. 
Miss B didnt agree. She wanted Halifax to explain why it would say she couldnt afford the 
original offer, when it had ended up giving her a loan with a monthly payment which was 
actually more than it had first suggested. She said her main complaint was about the overall 
reduction in her lending, despite her salary increasing. And she was adamant shed never 
discussed reducing the term to 22 years. 
Halifax said it would send us a call recording where a term of 22 years was discussed and 
accepted, which happened on 21 March 2022. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Miss B said she still couldnt understand Halifaxs 
decision making, and she wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint. This case was 
then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs mortgage promise was for £239,210, but it was for a term of 29 years, which could 
be shortened to 25 years. No monthly payment was set out on this mortgage promise, 
although Miss B tells us she was given an indication of the likely amount over the phone. 
Miss Bs offer was then made for £234,540 and a term of 22 years. And her offer says this 
will mean initial monthly payments of just under £1,200. 
Miss B says she didnt agree to the shorter mortgage term, but I do think she did. I can hear 
on the 21 March call that Miss B had with Halifax, she confirmed her monthly budget for 
repayments was £1,200. Halifax said it could offer a term of 22 years, which Miss B agreed 
to. So I think this was discussed with Miss B before the offer was issued. 
Halifax has said that it will always offer the shortest possible term within someones monthly 
budget, as they are better off paying over a shorter term when its affordable to do so. I 
agree with that, I think Miss B will save on interest with a shorter term to her mortgage. So I 
dont think this was an unfair or unreasonable suggestion for the term from Halifax. And I am 
satisfied that Miss B accepted the suggestion.
Miss B was also concerned about Halifaxs decisions on the affordability of her mortgage. 
She said shed ended up with slightly less borrowing, but a higher monthly payment, so she 
could clearly have afforded the higher amount. She said Halifax hadnt explained to her the 
reasons behind its decisions.
When Halifax decided how much it would be prepared to lend Miss B, its workings out 
werent just based on how much the monthly repayment would be. It also had to decide on a 
maximum amount it was prepared to lend. Thats part of assessing its own appetite for risk, 
and managing its lending business. And as long as I can see it has done that here in a fair 
and reasonable way, without mistakes, then a maximum amount of lending would essentially 
be Halifaxs decision to make. 
I understand why Miss B would say that she felt she could afford a bit more on the mortgage, 
if it had been allowed over a longer term, as the initial monthly payments would be the same, or perhaps even less. But I wouldnt agree the risks of lending based on the original promise 
and the final offer are the same. I know Halifax initially thought it could lend more, before it 
fully assessed Miss Bs application, but Im satisfied that when it did provide a mortgage 
offer, it applied its own criteria fairly and reasonably. And when Miss B expressed 
disappointment about the amount, it double checked this with its underwriters. 
So I dont think Halifax has to reinstate its original mortgage promise to Miss B now. 
Miss B also said she felt Halifaxs wording, saying it had given her a mortgage promise was 
misleading. A promise is something she understood would be binding, and this clearly 
wasnt. I think, looking at the document overall, that its clear this isnt a binding offer. So, 
although I understand why Miss B would say the previous name for this  a decision in 
principle  might be clearer, I dont think Halifax has to pay compensation to Miss B just 
because of this. And our service isnt a regulator, so I dont have powers to require Halifax to 
change this for other customers in future. 
I know that Miss B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman