DRN-1770918
Complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a further advance on a mortgage in 1993. 
It was paid for with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr L 
in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
I think Mr and Mrs Ls PPI policy was mis-sold here, and Ill explain why.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, so it didnt have to check it was right 
for them. But it did have to give them information about the policy that was clear, fair, and 
not misleading, so they could decide for themselves whether it was right for them.
I cant see that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs L clear enough information about the policys 
terms at the point of sale. And I think this wouldve mattered to them, since Mr L would need 
to have been off sick or unemployed for at least 90 days before he could make a claim on 
the policy. This is a significantly longer waiting period than other PPI policies.
But Mr L was self-employed and didnt have any other cover if he was off sick or out of work. 
So he wouldve found it very difficult to keep up with his mortgage payments during the 90 
day waiting period. And this may have meant that Mr L ended up in trouble with his 
mortgage, despite paying for a policy that was supposed to protect him from that very thing.
Nationwide says it had a leaflet Mr and Mrs L couldve read that wouldve told them about 
the waiting period. But I dont have any evidence to show that Mr and Mrs L were actually 
given this leaflet as part of this sales process, or that it was given to them early on enough in 
the process, or that they were told it contained important information and they needed to 
read it. So based on what Ive seen of the sale, I cant be reasonably satisfied that Mr and 
Mrs L were made sufficiently aware of the waiting period.
Nationwide says the full terms wouldve been given to Mr and Mrs L after the sale, and they 
couldve then cancelled the PPI. But thats too late. The onus was on Nationwide to provide 
clear, fair information at the point of sale; the onus was not on Mr and Mrs L to spot any 
flaws in the sale and cancel the policy after the fact.Lastly, Nationwide says it wouldve treated Mr and Mrs L sympathetically if theyd fallen 
behind on their mortgage, and wouldve made informal arrangements to deal with any 
arrears. But Im afraid thats not relevant here. Even if I accept that Nationwide definitely 
wouldve treated them sympathetically  and theres no guarantee of that  the fact remains 
that Mr and Mrs L were paying for a policy to stop them from going into arrears in the first 
place. So if the policy wasnt reliably able to do that, then it most likely wasnt right for them.
I cant see that Nationwide made the waiting period sufficiently clear at the point of sale. If it 
had done, then I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the policy. So 
I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs L have lost out because of the flaws in this sale.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should put Mr and Mrs L in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L back the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
Mr and Mrs L can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Nationwide Building Society should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman