DRN-3059358
The complaint
Mr K complains True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM) mis-sold him insurance 
policies in October 2019. Mr K is represented in this complaint by a claims management 
company, but to keep things simple my decision will only refer to Mr K. 
What happened
Our service has addressed Mr Ks income protection policy mis-sale complaint separately. 
So here, Ill only include what background I think is relevant to Mr Ks life and serious illness 
policy mis-sale complaint. 
In October 2018 Mr K followed independent financial adviser TPWMs advice and bought a 
level term life and serious illness policy with £250,000 of cover over 25 years (which Ill call 
P1). And in May 2019 Mr K followed TPWMs advice and bought a further level term life and 
critical illness policy with £100,000 of cover over 25 years (P2). 
On 1 October 2019 Mr K met with TPWM to discuss his protection wants and needs, as his 
work circumstances had changed. Following this, Mr K bought another life and serious 
illness policy (P3) with the same insurer as P1. P3 started on 8 October 2019 and provided 
£300,000 of cover for 25 years on a level term basis. 
At this time, Mr K had stopped paying the monthly premiums for P1 and P2. The P2 insurer 
wrote to Mr K on 29 October 2019 to say it had cancelled P2 due to non-payment, with Mr K 
owing about three months premiums, but that Mr K could restart P2 on the original terms 
within thirty days providing nothing had happened since cancellation for which a claim could 
be made. And on 28 November 2019 the P1 insurer contacted TPWM to say Mr K had 
contacted it and asked it to cancel P1, and he owed three months of premiums. 
In November 2019 Mr K made a claim under P3. In the claim form he explained he began 
experiencing head pain, tiredness and balance issues from 12 October 2019 and visited his 
doctor about these on 18 October 2019 but was told they were stress related. And that on 
6 November 2019 hed collapsed and was then sadly diagnosed with glioblastoma. The P3 
insurer approved payment of Mr Ks claim in May 2020. Mr K says he tried to claim under P2 
but the insurer told him P2 was cancelled for non-payment. 
Mr K complained about TPWMs October 2019 advice. He said it didnt carry out a full fact 
find but only asked if everything was roughly the same. And that P3 left him with a lower sum 
assured and less comprehensive cover than hed previously had. Mr K said TPWM should 
have advised him to keep P1 and P2 and pay the arrears. And that his illness affected his 
understanding and judgement, so he relied on TPWMs expertise. Mr K said TPWM fell short 
of its obligations and the number of policies hed bought in a short time should have alerted 
TPWM to his health issues. He wanted TPWM to pay him the £50,000 difference in life and 
serious illness cover hed had before and after TPWMs advice in October 2019. 
TPWM didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said it couldnt have known about Mr Ks illness, as 
he hadnt told it of any health issues and his medical records didnt then suggest he had a 
serious illness. Instead, Mr K had told it his financial difficulties meant hed not paid the P1 
and P2 premiums and he wanted a fresh start with his change in circumstances. TPWM said 
it carried out a full fact find and provided Mr K with a suitability report. And that it was Mr Ks 
decision to reduce his cover based on what he was willing to pay at that time. TPWM said it 
made Mr K aware of the terms of P3 and didnt advise Mr K to cancel P1 and P2 - Mr K 
decided not to continue with them and could have contacted the insurers if hed wanted to. 
Unhappy with this, Mr K brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought 
TPWM hadnt mis-sold P3. But Mr K disagreed. He said the many inaccuracies in the fact 
find meant TPWM hadnt understood his needs and so couldnt have given him suitable 
advice. Hed wanted the cover he already had, and there was no documented reason why it 
reduced from £350,000 to £300,000. So hed have been better off with his existing P1 and 
P2. Mr K said TPWM didnt ask him any health questions, and neglected to address his 
inheritance tax (IHT) exposure, or put the policies in trust or in joint names with his partner. 
Mr K reiterated his health had affected his judgement and hed relied on TPWMs advice.
As Mr K disagreed, his complaint came to me to consider. On 8 September 2021, I issued 
my provisional decision in which I said: 
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id firstly like to say how very sorry I am to hear of Mr Ks diagnosis and worsening health. 
I realise this is an extremely distressing time for him and his family, and its under these 
circumstances hes brought this complaint. While I dont wish to cause Mr K further distress, 
Im not upholding this complaint. I know he will find this a very great disappointment, but Ill 
explain my reasons. 
Before I do, I should be clear that my decision will only address the mis-sale of life and 
serious illness policy P3. I wont address Mr Ks mis-sale of income protection complaint, as 
our service is considering that separately.
mis-sale of life and serious illness policy P3
Mr K met TPWM on 1 October 2019 and a fact find was completed. I wasnt present at that 
meeting so I cant be sure what was discussed. Therefore, Ive considered the evidence I do 
have. This includes the fact find, suitability report, text messages between TPWM and Mr K, 
testimony from Mr K and TPWM, and the P3 application TPWM submitted on Mr Ks behalf.
I know Mr K says he wanted the cover he already had and there was no documented reason 
to change the cover. But the fact find dated 1 October 2019 sets out Mr Ks broad wants and 
needs at that particular time. It makes no mention of Mr K wanting to have the same cover 
as that provided by P1 and P2. It does say Mr K has no mortgage and so didnt need 
mortgage protection. But that Mr K wanted to receive a lump sum if he suffered a serious 
illness, or for his family to receive a lump sum if he passed away. So Mr K had a family 
protection need for life and serious illness cover. And the fact find said the lump sum he 
wanted for this at that particular time was £300,000, over a 25 year term. 
Im intending to say I think P3 was a suitable recommendation to meet that family protection 
need. I should be clear here that our services approach isnt to look back with hindsight and 
say what the most suitable policies would have been. Instead, we consider whether a policy 
sold was suitable at that particular point in time. And different ways of providing life and 
critical illness protection can still all be suitable, albeit to greater or lesser degrees, 
depending on the consumers particular circumstances, wants and needs at that time. In this 
case, P3 provided the sum assured that the fact find said Mr K wanted at that particular time, 
and the premium was affordable for Mr K at that time. It was also on a level term basis so the sum assured wouldnt reduce over the years, which was suitable for Mr Ks wish to 
protect his family. So Im intending to say P3 was a suitable recommendation at that time.  
Having said that, I can see that about a week after the meeting and fact find, TPWM texted 
Mr K to ask further questions about his doctor and new employment. The questions it asked 
were broadly in line with a small number of the insurers application questions. Then on 
8 October 2019 TPWM submitted the online P3 application on Mr Ks behalf. Mr K says 
TPWM didnt ask him any health questions, and Ive not been provided with any evidence to 
make me think it did - neither the fact find or the suitability report contain health questions or 
answers. Taking all this into account, I think its more likely than not that TPWM didnt 
complete the P3 application with Mr K present and didnt ask Mr K all of the specific 
application questions required by the P3 insurer. This is a significant error by TPWM and 
shouldnt be minimised. But Im intending to say that in these particular circumstances, it 
didnt cause Mr K any detriment he otherwise wouldnt have had regarding his life and 
serious illness cover. Ill explain why.
An email from the P3 insurer shows it approved a P3 claim for Mr K in May 2020. And Im 
satisfied Mr K wouldnt have had a claim paid under P1 or P2. Thats because the insurer 
cancelled P2 due to Mr K not paying his premiums. Soon after this, Mr K collapsed and was 
diagnosed with glioblastoma, so something had changed after the policy was cancelled. 
Therefore I think its unlikely Mr K wouldve met the P2 insurers conditions for reinstating the 
policy. 
For similar reasons, I think its unlikely Mr K would have had a claim paid under P1. Mr K 
had already stopped paying for P1 some months before he collapsed and was diagnosed 
with glioblastoma. Its my experience that insurers dont simply reinstate cover on the original 
terms with no regard to whether the consumers circumstances have changed.  And I note 
Mr K asked the insurer to cancel P1 in late November 2019 in any case. But even if I thought 
a claim would have been paid under P1, which I dont, the sum assured was £250,000 which 
is less than the £300,000 sum assured under P3. And as I say, Mr K wouldnt have had a 
claim paid under P2. So he was never going to receive claim payments totalling £350,000 as 
hes suggested. Therefore I dont think TPWMs errors with the P3 application caused Mr K 
any detriment he wouldnt have had anyway regarding his life and serious illness cover.
Mr K says his illness affected his judgement and he relied on TPWMs expertise, and TPWM 
should have been alert to his health issues. Mr K was communicating with TPWM in early 
October 2019 and began experiencing symptoms from 12 October 2019. So its likely he 
was unwell at the time of the fact find. And the sale documents dont show that TPWM 
explored why Mr K was looking to buy several policies in a relatively short space of time. 
I think it should have explored this with Mr K, but that doesnt change the outcome here. 
Thats because Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr K told TPWM about any health issues. And 
Mr K didnt know he had any serious health issue affecting his judgement at the time of the 
fact find, so it wasnt something he could have told TPWM about even if it had asked. 
Therefore it wouldnt be reasonable to expect TPWM to take account of something it couldnt 
know. Instead, its reasonable to think TPWM understood Mr Ks financial issues and change 
in work circumstances to be the reason he was setting up new policies, as it has suggested. 
And that TPWM was trying to provide Mr K with a safety net in P3, as it has also suggested. 
This is supported by an email dated 9 October 2019 from TPWM to the P1 and P3 insurer 
explaining The old plan may lapse off. Hes been going through a rough patch just now. He 
may pay back premiums but if you could issue the new plan, thatd be great.Ultimately, it was for Mr K to decide whether to accept TPWMs recommendations and to 
decide whether to continue paying the premiums for P1 and P2  these werent things 
TPWM could do for him. 
policies not placed in trust/joint names
Ive not seen anything at the time of P3s sale to suggest Mr Ks partner wanted to be 
involved in, or was involved in, the application. And they would have needed to be involved 
in order to be a joint policyholder. So I dont think TPWM did anything wrong by not ensuring 
P3 was set up jointly. Regardless, I can see the suitability report TPWM provided to Mr K 
recommends P3 is placed in trust. It was for Mr K to decide whether to follow that 
recommendation or not, and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Mr K instructed TPWM to 
place P3 in trust. 
IHT not considered
The estates section of the 1 October 2019 fact find asks how important is it to you to avoid 
paying any inheritance tax: The answer recorded is Not important  no need perceived and 
notes Below IHT threshold. So I think TPWM did consider Mr Ks IHT exposure but it wasnt 
something Mr K had a protection need for at that time. TPWMs recommendation to place P3 
in trust would have provided protection for IHT in any case. But as I say, Ive not seen that 
this was something Mr K instructed TPWM to arrange. 
Taking everything into account, Im intending to say TPWM doesnt need to do anything 
further regarding the sale of P3.
TPWM responded to my provisional decision and confirmed it didnt object and had nothing 
further to add.
Mr K also responded and provided further comments in response to my provisional decision, 
and Ive summarised these as follows:
TPWM incorrectly advised him to take out new policies when he could have continued 
with his existing ones, as both the P1 and P2 insurer had confirmed in telephone calls 
that if Mr K had paid his policy arrears on 1 October 2019, he wouldnt have had to 
provide any medical information and the policies would have just carried on as normal. 
P3 provided less cover and cost more each month than P1 and P2. 
A report from Mr Ks GP showed Mr K was suffering symptoms a few months before 
taking out the policy. So Mr K knew he had symptoms in October 2019 but TPWM didnt 
ask any health questions, therefore Mr K wasnt able to provide this information. 
TPWM suggests Mr K was in financial difficulty, but it didnt mention this in the October 
2019 fact find and instead recorded that Mr K had £5,000 of savings.
Im now in a position to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive considered the further comments and information Mr K has provided. But 
having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision. I 
know this isnt the answer Mr K hoped for, but Ill explain why by addressing his further 
comments.
TPWM incorrectly advised Mr K to take out new policiesMr K says he could have continued with his existing policies since both insurers have 
confirmed to him in telephone calls that if hed paid his policy arrears on 1 October 2019, 
they would have carried on as normal with no need for any medical evidence. To support 
this, Mr K provided me with:
A letter dated 5 September 2019 sent by the P2 insurer to Mr K, saying that months 
Direct Debit payment had been rejected by his bank. And it would attempt this payment 
again but Mr Ks cover may not continue if he didnt pay within 60 days of the due date. 
A letter dated 29 November 2019 sent by the P1 insurer to Mr K, saying it had cancelled 
P1 and Mr K should contact TPWM for advice about this or if he wanted to take out a 
new plan with the P1 insurer.
Text messages between Mr K and TPWM, where Mr K asks who requested the P1 
cancellation. TPWM replied that no one requested it be cancelled and P1 had still been 
in force (with missed premiums) when Mr Ks new policy was taken out. Mr K asked if 
P1 had been in force on 6 November 2019, and TPWM replied it hadnt lapsed then.
The first page of a complaint final response letter dated 5 June 2020 sent by the P2 
insurer to Mr Ks representative. It said P2 lapsed on 28 October 2019 due to non-
payment, that it wrote to Mr K on 1 October 2019 advising P2 would be cancelled on 
28 October 2019 unless he paid his outstanding premiums prior to that date, and that it 
wrote to Mr K on 29 October 2019 to say it had cancelled P2 and Mr K had 30 days to 
pay the outstanding premiums and restart the policy, providing nothing had happened 
since cancellation for which a claim could be made. 
Ive considered these further comments and evidence carefully. But even if I were to accept 
the P1 and P2 insurers would simply have allowed that cover to carry on as before if Mr K 
paid his outstanding premiums on 1 October 2019, Im not persuaded this was something 
Mr K wanted to do at that time. 
I say that because I note the notice of cancellation letter from the P2 insurer was dated the 
same day Mr K met TPWM to discuss his wants and needs (1 October 2019). And a week 
later Mr K and TPWM were again in communication. Around this time, TPWM emailed the 
P1 and P3 insurer to say, The old plan may lapse off. Hes been going through a rough 
patch just now. He may pay back premiums but if you could issue the new plan, thatd be 
great. From this it seems like there may have been some discussion between Mr K and 
TPWM about repaying outstanding premiums, but the outcome was uncertain. And as I 
explained in my provisional decision, its reasonable to think TPWM was trying to provide 
Mr K with a safety net in P3, but ultimately it was for Mr K to decide whether to continue 
paying for P1 and P2 as this wasnt something TPWM could do for him.
And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr K tried to make arrangements to repay his 
outstanding premiums, even after the P2 insurer wrote in September 2019 to say his Direct 
Debit hadnt been paid and his cover might be affected, and then sent a notice of 
cancellation letter about a month later. 
Given this, I dont think I have sufficient reason to depart from the conclusions I reached 
regarding this point in my provisional decision.
P3 provided less cover and cost more each month than P1 and P2
Mr K says P1 and P2 provided £350,000 of cover and cost him a total of £227.88 in 
premiums each month. And that P3 only provided £300,000 of cover and yet cost him 
£234.38 in premiums each month. While I agree with the total cover amounts Mr K has set out, I disagree that P3 cost him 
more than P1 and P2 together. I say that because the P1 cancellation letter dated 
29 November 2019 shows the monthly premiums for P1 were £170. And the missed Direct 
Debit letter says the payment amount was £69.32. Based on these, Im satisfied the total 
monthly cost for P1 and P2 was £239.32
The October 2019 recommendation letter and the P3 application submission says the P3 
monthly premiums would be £210.48, though I note it was referred for further underwriting so 
this might have changed. Given this, I accept that the P3 premiums were £234.38 as Mr K 
says. But this was still less than his total premiums for P1 and P2, and was within what he 
could afford at that time as set out in the fact find. So I dont think this means P3 was 
unsuitable for him.
Mr K was suffering symptoms before taking out P3
Mr K has clarified that a report from his GP showed he was suffering symptoms a few 
months before taking out P3. And Mr K says he knew he had symptoms in October 2019 but 
TPWM didnt ask any health questions, so he wasnt able to provide this information. 
In my provisional decision, I said TPWM had made a significant error by not asking Mr K the 
questions required by the insurer, but in these particular circumstances, this didnt cause Mr 
K any detriment he wouldnt otherwise have had. And I said Mr K was likely unwell at the 
time of the fact find but didnt know he had a serious health issue affecting his judgement at 
that time. So his serious health issue wasnt something he could have told TPWM about 
even if it had asked. 
And I remain of this view. I say that because regardless of when Mr K might have begun to 
experience symptoms, when he consulted his doctor about these on 18 October 2019 he 
was reassured that they were stress related, rather than caused by a serious illness. 
Therefore, he couldnt have told TPWM about his serious illness when he was 
communicating with it in early October 2019, for it to take account of this. And in this 
particular case, when and what Mr K knew about his symptoms wasnt the reason a claim 
wasnt paid under P1 and P2. For these reasons, what Mr K says here doesnt change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
TPWM didnt mention any financial difficulties in the October 2019 fact find and instead 
recorded that Mr K had £5,000 of savings
I agree the fact find makes no mention of financial difficulties. And that it records Mr K had 
£5,000 in savings, though I see it notes this is an emergency fund. But while the fact find is 
perhaps not as detailed as it could be, I think Mr K likely discussed some sort of financial 
difficulty with TPWM, as TPWM noted in an email dated 9 October 2019 to the P1 and P3 
insurer, The old plan may lapse off. Hes been going through a rough patch just now. He 
may pay back premiums but if you could issue the new plan, thatd be great. And ultimately, 
I dont think what Mr K says here changes the outcome of his complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking True Potential Wealth Management LLP to 
take any action regarding the sale of P3.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman