DRN-3728169
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain that CAPTA FX LIMITED (Capta FX) negligently handled their 
payment request, resulting in their payment of over €461,000 failing to reach their 
investment account. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Y were approached by a company (Praesidium) in February 2019 with a forex 
investment opportunity. They chose to invest $500,000 after having already invested an 
initial sum and said that staff from Praesidium and Capta FX advised them that, in order to 
obtain the best exchange rate, they would need to make the next payment to an account 
with Capta FX (an FCA authorised firm based in the UK) as an intermediary, where the 
currency would be converted to Euros. The money would then be forwarded to Praesidiums 
trading account for the investment to be placed. 
Mr and Mrs Y duly made the payment to their Capta FX account, and then instructed it to 
make the payment in Euros to a company called FX Primus (Praesidiums trading platform). 
However, they said that the funds were not able to located by the investment company as 
Capta FX had failed to include their names in the payment reference, meaning they have 
lost their $500,000.
Mr and Mrs Y say that Capta FX failed to indicate who the sender of the money was within 
the payment reference. They say that FX Primus also told them that Praesidium had no 
trading account with it, which is another reason why it couldnt reconcile the funds with an 
investing account. Praesidium has also since gone into liquidation. 
Mr and Mrs Y say that Capta FX ought to have carried out due diligence and adequately 
vetted Praesidium, which could have prevented them from losing their money. Mr and Mrs Y 
complained to Capta FX asking it to refund the payment they made. However, Capta FX 
refused to provide a refund as it said it had followed Mr and Mrs Ys instructions to make the 
payment. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Capta FX had fulfilled its 
obligations by executing the payment instruction as requested by Mr and Mrs Y and didnt 
think it could be held liable for their missing funds. Mr and Mrs Y disagreed, so the matter 
has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Capta FX processed the transaction using the reference set out on the payment form, 
which had been signed and agreed to by Mr and Mrs Y. Capta FX said it was of the 
understanding that this reference was to be used by the beneficiary to identify the funds 
as belonging to Mr and Mrs Y. It was not instructed to include their names within the 
reference, so I dont think it has done anything wrong by using the reference included on 
the payment form.
Mr and Mrs Y agreed with Capta FX to enter into a foreign exchange contract and for the 
proceeds of the foreign exchange to be paid to the beneficiary as had been stipulated by 
them. And it carried out its obligations as had been instructed by Mr and Mrs Y. Capta 
FX also confirmed that the funds have reached the beneficiarys account. So, if the 
beneficiary is now refusing to credit the funds to them, this is something they will have to 
take up with the beneficiary itself. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Y consider that Capta FX should have vetted and or warned 
them against Praesidium being an unsafe provider. But I dont think Capta FX would 
have had any reason to suspect that it was an unsafe provider or have been under any 
obligation to carry out such checks before acting upon payment instructions made by its 
customers. Capta FX have confirmed that it does not have any commercial contract with 
Praesidium, and that the only association it had was for it to refer its customers that 
require foreign exchange/money remittance services. 
Even if I thought that Capta FX should have carried out checks into the beneficiary, I 
would still have to be satisfied that its failure to do so has caused Mr and Mrs Ys loss. 
However, Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest that it could have reasonably 
discovered that Praesidium had no trading account with FX Primus. It was following the 
payment instructions as presented by Mr and Mrs Y, in the exact format they had been 
told to provide them by Praesidium. If Capta FX had looked into the beneficiary, it would 
have seen that it was a legitimate merchant that was regulated overseas, so there would 
have been no cause for concern. 
Ive also thought about whether Capta FX ought to have questioned Mr and Mrs Y about 
the payment to ensure they were confident about its purpose and where it was being 
sent. However, even if I thought Capta FX ought to have intervened and asked such 
questions of Mr and Mrs Y, Im not persuaded it would have stopped them from 
proceeding with the payment. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Y said they had already invested $400,000 with Praesidium and had 
received some returns, which they said gave them confidence to invest further. They had 
also been given specific payment instructions by Praesidium in a templated format which 
included the relevant account details for the money to be sent, as well as how to set out 
the payment reference. So, if Capta FX had asked whether Mr and Mrs Y had looked 
into Praesidium and were confident of where there money was going, they wouldve had 
no reason to doubt that their funds would be received into their trading account, and so 
wouldve likely continued to proceed with instructing Capta FX to execute the 
transaction.
As a result, Im satisfied that Capta FX have correctly executed the payment instructions as 
had been provided by Mr and Mrs Y, and has therefore met its relevant obligations. I note 
that Mr and Mrs Y say they are still attempting to locate the funds with the beneficiary bank, 
so its not even clear if the money has been entirely lost in any event. But in terms of Capta 
FX, Im not persuaded it can fairly or reasonably be held liable for the misplaced funds, so I 
will not be asking it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman