DRN-3305663
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Santander UK Plc failed to refund transactions from her account that 
she didnt authorise.
What happened
Mrs L explained that she was at a parking ticket machine and was distracted by a man. Mrs 
L then realised her card had disappeared from the machine and she thinks another man who 
was nearby took the card when she wasnt looking.
Mrs L explained she tried to call Santander straight away but couldnt get through and she 
then cancelled her card within the Santander app on her phone. Despite doing this, two 
transactions were made using the card and Mrs Ls Personal Identification Number (PIN). 
These transactions took place within several minutes of losing the card.
Mrs L got through to Santander and asked them to stop one of the transactions because it 
was showing as pending. Santander blocked Mrs Ls debit card and investigated the 
situation. Santander advised Mrs L that they werent going to refund the disputed 
transactions because they couldnt see how Mrs Ls PIN  was known to the user of her card. 
There was no way to stop the pending payment once it had been authorised with the card 
and PIN.
Mrs L complained to Santander who again looked into what had happened and declined to 
refund her. Mrs L then brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an 
independent review where it was looked into by one of our investigators. Both Mrs L and 
Santander provided evidence of what had happened, and Mrs L explained how she had 
been using the ticket machine when she believes her card had been stolen. She confirmed 
to our investigator that she didnt know how the men knew her PIN.
Santander supplied evidence of the transactions and what had happened when Mrs L had 
blocked her card using the app. Both transactions used the genuine card and PIN to 
authorise them. Santander explained that when Mrs L used her app to block her card, she 
hadnt blocked her stolen card, but a different one. Mrs Ls lost card was eventually blocked 
over an hour after the two disputed transactions had taken place. There were additional 
attempts to use the card, including balance enquiry checks at an Automated Teller Machine 
(ATM).
Our investigator couldnt find a point of compromise for how these men knew Mrs Ls PIN 
number and didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Mrs L disagreed with the investigators outcome and sent copies of texts she received about 
two attempts to take further funds from her account which she told Santander wasnt her. 
Mrs L asked for a further review of her complaint which has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Santander can hold Mrs L liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
Santander have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to make 
the transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were 
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Santander and Mrs L agreed to use the card for 
transactions. For example, when using the card and PIN together, Santander agree to 
accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another 
approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the 
genuine card and the correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed 
transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for 
Santander to hold Mrs L responsible, for example if the card was used without her 
permission.
Both disputed transactions used the genuine card and PIN. Mrs L didnt know how the men 
she thought took her card knew the number because she hadnt written it down or revealed it 
to anyone. Santander confirmed it was a randomly generated number which makes it 
unlikely that someone could correctly guess it the first time. The card and PIN hadnt been 
used that day, so its also unlikely someone could have seen Mrs L input the PIN elsewhere. 
What that means here is that there isnt a plausible explanation for how the PIN could have 
been known to these men.
I know Mrs L was disappointed when the pending transaction wasnt stopped. What that 
usually means is the payment hasnt yet reached the recipients account but has already left 
the senders account. So, they cant be stopped , even though it says pending. 
Mrs L sent copies of texts she received about two attempted transactions that took place a 
little while after the two successful disputed transactions had been made. These texts were 
from Santander and asked Mrs L if she carried them out  to which she replied no. The 
transactions were to withdraw small amounts of money and had been refused because the 
daily withdrawal limit had already been reached. They were made on the card Mrs L 
believed shed blocked  but this wasnt the case because shed blocked a different card. 
There were further attempts to use the card after it was blocked, including at an online 
merchant that was also used successfully by Mrs L prior to the loss of her card.
Whoever was using the card carried out a balance enquiry at an ATM before the card was 
blocked. That would have shown there was a considerable available balance in the account, 
but there werent any other attempts to purchase anything using the card and PIN. While I 
cant say what was in the mind of the card user, they would be aware that Mrs L would most 
probably take immediate steps to block her card because she was present when she lost it. 
What usually happens in such cases where the cards stolen is theres a rapid use of the 
card before it is blocked. There were two very quick attempts to use it and then a delay, so 
the card users knew the card was working and had a healthy balance, but they didnt attempt 
to use it until later by which time it had been blocked. There are aspects to the card usage 
that I cant explain because some of them follow how a genuine stolen card is used and others that dont fit any typical pattern of use by a thief. 
In summary, theres no plausible explanation to how these men who Mrs L says took her 
card were able to obtain a randomly generated PIN that wasnt written down. Without that I 
cant fairly ask Santander to refund Mrs L. So, when I take everything into account, I think its 
more likely than not that Mrs L was responsible for making these transactions or allowing 
someone else to use her card. I think it was reasonable for Santander to hold her liable for 
the transactions and I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman