DRN-1537636
Complaint
Ms S says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy when she took out a credit card in 2002. 
Background
I can see that Ms S has already been offered some money back for the commission Capital 
One received from selling the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail 
and didnt think Ms S had actually been mis-sold the PPI policy.
Ms S disagreed and still thought she had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place. So she 
asked that an ombudsman make a final decision about the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Capital One says it added the PPI during a telephone call, which marries up with Ms Ss 
recollection. She says she wasnt told much about it and assumed it was compulsory. I dont 
doubt that she genuinely remembers things that way, but I also need to think about how long 
ago this was because some 18 years has passed since the conversation. 
We no longer have the recording of the call but thats not particularly surprising or unusual 
after so long. However, because weve seen many similar complaints, we have quite a lot of 
knowledge and experience about the procedures involved with these sales. We know, for 
example, that the Capital One sales agents were told to follow a script when speaking to 
consumers like Ms S. And we know the script outlined the optional nature of the PPI and 
also other important information, such as the cost.
Obviously I cant say for sure that this happened here, but on balance I think its more likely 
that the agent followed the process and that Ms S would have known she had a choice. The 
costs would have then showed up on her monthly statements and I think if she was 
unhappy, Ms S could have been able to ask what the charges were for.
Capital One didnt provide an advised sale so it needed only to provide Ms S with enough 
information so she could decide for herself whether or not she wanted PPI and whether it 
was right for her. As Ive said, my experience with these sales is that the call included 
information about the charges and other policy features, so I think she probably had enough 
information to decide what she wanted to do.
I completely accept Capital One may well have been able to do a better job at explaining 
things, but Im afraid this doesnt change what I think. This is because I think Ms S probably 
made the choice to have the PPI. She wasnt caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies and I think the charges were affordable and similar to those 
charged by other providers at the time. In the event of a successful claim on the PPI policy, 
Ms S would have also been able to have her outstanding balance reduced by 10% each 
month for up to 12 months. So I think the cover was of use.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Ms S. 
But it does have to pay back to Ms S any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium which I understand it has already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman