DRN-3044676
The complaint
Miss M complains about Allianz Global Assistances handling of her claim under her home 
emergency policy.
What happened
Miss M discovered an infestation of mice in her home and called Allianz to make a claim. 
Three appointments were made for a pest control operative to visit and deal with the 
problem. Unfortunately, no-one turned up on each of these occasions. The first appointment 
was in December 2020 and there were two further appointments arranged in January 2021.
Miss M paid for pest control measures herself to deal with the problem because of the lack 
of action on Allianzs part. She says she has a fear of mice and dealing with this problem has 
made her more anxious. Miss M also explains the situation was made worse because she 
was shielding due to the pandemic and so could not leave her house. 
Miss M complained to Allianz. She says it eventually agreed to reimburse her for the pest 
control measures and to provide £60 in compensation. She didnt think this adequately 
compensated her for the issues experienced and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator received no information from Allianz and so based his decision on the 
information from Miss M. He thought the company had treated her unfairly, failing to send a 
pest controller on the dates promised. He felt Miss M had little choice but to take action 
herself to resolve the problem. He thought it was fair that Allianz paid for the cost of the pest 
control measures but agreed with Miss M that its compensation offer was inadequate. 
He felt a total payment of £300 was appropriate in addition to the cost of the pest control 
measures. Miss M agreed, but Allianz didnt respond. The complaint has now been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold this complaint. My reasoning is broadly the same 
as our investigator set out. Ill explain why I think this is fair.
Miss M says she contacted Allianz about an infestation of mice in December 2020. This and 
the subsequent missed appointments are detailed in the email correspondence she 
exchanged with the company. Copies of this information were supplied with Miss Ms 
complaint. As above Allianz hasnt provided any information about this complaint. 
The policy under What is insured says:
Pests  Arranging attendance and paying call out and emergency repair costs to remove 
pests from your home.
From this Im satisfied Miss M is covered for the infestation problem she reported. 
She has supplied a copy of a text message she received from Allianz in February 2021, 
which says:
Please note that in an effort to bring this long outstanding matter to a conclusion, I have 
reviewed the gesture of goodwill element offered, and can agree to raise this to £100. 
(£129.45 in total).
I understand this was received by Miss M after our investigator provided his view. The 
company offers £100 in compensation, which is an increase from the £60 previously 
mentioned.
Miss M has explained that at the time the infestation occurred, she was having to shield at 
home because of the pandemic and has a fear of mice. I can understand that this must have 
been very distressing for her. This was made worse by Allianzs failure to handle the claim 
effectively, causing delays and ultimately resulting in Miss M having to deal with the 
infestation herself.  
I think its fair to say this situation would be distressing and inconvenient for most people. 
However, Miss Ms circumstances are such that the impact on her was greater. She had to 
remain at home during all this due to the risk the coronavirus posed to her health. At the 
same time, she explains she has a fear of mice, which worsened her anxiety. I agree with 
our investigator that a higher compensation payment is appropriate. This is to acknowledge 
the impact Allianz had on her, in failing to handle her claim effectively. 
In summary, I dont think Allianz handled Miss Ms claim fairly. It should provide a total 
compensation payment for £300 - less any payment already provided. This is in addition to 
the £29.45 already paid to cover the cost of the pest control measures.
My final decision
My final decision is that Allianz Global Assistance should:
pay Miss M a total of £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her. Allianz Global Assistance must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Miss M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this 
it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman