DRN-1818533
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have not accepted their travel 
insurance claim and with the service provided by UKIs assistance company. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have annual travel insurance with UKI as a benefit of an account they 
hold.Whilst abroad in May 2019 Mrs M was admitted to hospital. Mr and Mrs M are unhappy 
UKI hasnt agreed to meet their emergency medical expenses claim. They also think 
UKI assistance company staff communicated with them insensitively at a time when Mrs M 
was seriously ill. UKI rejected Mr and Mrs Ms claim because they said Mrs M was 
hospitalised for a condition she was diagnosed with before travelling but hadnt disclosed to 
UKI. Claims in these circumstances are excluded under the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy. 
Mr and Mrs M say Mr M did call and disclose Mrs Ms medical history some years prior to 
their trip. UKI says it has no evidence of the call and its assistance company acted 
appropriately.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no evidence Mr M 
disclosed Mrs Ms medical history and her claim was excluded under the terms of the policy. 
The investigator said assistance company staff acted reasonably in letting Mr M know the 
claim may not be covered while he was abroad. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the 
investigators opinion and asked for a final decision, so their complaint has been passed to 
me. They said Mr M called UKI and the burden was on them to find the call.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued my provisional decision on 6 April 2020. I said:
Like all travel insurance policies Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Ms policy doesnt cover pre-
existing medical conditions that havent been declared to UKI and accepted by them. Their 
policy says,
What you are not covered for (exclusions)
Claims which arise from a pre-existing medical condition unless declared to us 
and accepted in writing.
A pre-existing condition is defined as,
Any medical condition for which, at the date you became an insured person or the 
date when you booked your journey, whichever is later, you are unable to comply with 
the Medical Statements on page 17 of this policy.
The medical statement referred to says a policyholder will not automatically be covered 
for any claims directly or indirectly linked to a pre-existing medical condition. A pre-
existing condition includes a condition a policyholder has received treatment for in the last 
twelve months.Mrs M was treated abroad for decompensated chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD), severe bronchospasm, respiratory difficulty secondary to COPD and 
pneumonia. She was diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in 2016 and 
received ongoing medication in the twelve months before she travelled. So, I consider Mrs 
Ms medical history should have been discussed with UKI. Im also satisfied Mrs Ms claim 
was directly or indirectly linked to her pre-existing COPD.
Ive seen UKIs assistance companys notes of the call when Mr M was first told his 
wifes claim may not be covered. Mr M said he and his wife believed they didnt need to 
declare her history, but he thought he might have spoken to the bank about them before 
travelling. I appreciate Mr M was concerned about his wifes condition at the time and may 
not have had a clear recollection of events. A few days later, Mr M said he didnt know he 
had travel insurance with UKI until a few years ago and he called them then to disclose his 
wifes condition.
Ive seen screenshots of UKIs internal records. These would usually show any contact 
with an insured person and any changes made to the policy. There are no notes of any calls 
and theres no evidence an adviser has looked at the policy. Ive also taken in to account the 
fact Mr and Mrs Ms policy includes a section which explains what happens after an insured 
has called to disclose a medical condition or conditions. It says that when UKI cover or 
decline medical conditions they usually apply terms for a twelve-month period and require 
the insured to call at the end of that period. The policy says, we will talk to you about 
your condition(s) and assess your condition(s) annually. If Mr M called UKI a few years 
before the trip Id expect UKI to have reviewed Mrs Ms medical details annually. UKI also 
say pre-existing medical conditions are excluded unless accepted in writing by them. I 
havent seen any evidence that UKI accepted any conditions for Mrs M in writing.
Ive also considered what UKI would have done if Mr and Mrs M had declared their 
medical conditions to UKI. To get the necessary information UKI recently completed a 
retrospective screening. Ive been provided with screen shots from this screening, which 
show that had UKI been aware of Mrs Ms COPD they would not have provided cover for this 
condition. In these circumstances I cant ask UKI to meet any part of Mrs Ms claim. The 
screen shots show Mrs M has another condition and Mr M has conditions that can be 
covered for an increased premium.
I turn now to the service provided by UKIs medical assistance company. I appreciate 
that when Mr M spoke to advisers Mrs M was very ill and it was a difficult time for him. But I 
think advisers acted reasonably in telling Mr M at the earliest opportunity that Mrs Ms 
medical costs may not be covered. As a result, Mr M had the opportunity to make choices 
that could limit his overall costs, like moving Mrs M to a public hospital. Assistance company 
staff advised Mr M that if the claim wasnt accepted they could still provide advice, which is 
what Id expect.
Whilst I am sympathetic to the position Mr and Mrs M find themselves in, I cant 
conclude UKI acted unreasonably in rejecting their claim and letting Mr M know of the 
potential for this while Mr and Mrs M were still abroad. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept my provisional decision. They are adamant they are telling the 
truth and they declared Mrs Ms condition. UKI did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. I havent suggested Mr and Mrs M arent telling the truth, but there are no records to confirm 
they told UKI about Mrs Ms medical condition before they travelled. In any event, Ive looked 
at what UKI would have done if they had been aware of Mrs Ms medical history. For this 
reason, UKI completed medical screening with Mr M before I issued my provisional decision. 
Following the screening UKI provided me with evidence to show that had they been aware of 
Mrs Ms medical history before she travelled, they would not have offered cover for Mrs Ms 
COPD. In these circumstances I cant reasonably ask UKI to meet any part of Mr and Mrs 
Ms claim.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman