The complaint
Ms S says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to her irresponsibly. 
Ms S has also said Satsuma provided poor customer service when handling her complaint 
and in responding to her financial difficulties.
What happened
Ms S had two loans with Satsuma. The first was for £700 and commenced in April 2018 and 
the second was for £490 commencing in August 2018. Both loans were due in monthly 
instalments across twelve and nine months respectively.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint about irresponsible lending and recommended it 
be upheld in part. He didn't think Satsuma was right to have approved the second loan and 
said Satsuma should refund the interest Ms S had paid, write off any unpaid interest and 
remove any adverse information about the loan from Ms S' credit file. He also thought the 
£100 reduction Satsuma had made to the balance of the first loan was sufficient to 
compensate for Satsuma's customer service failings.
Ms S disagreed with the adjudicator's recommendation to not uphold the first loan. She said 
other companies had upheld her complaints and explained the impact the default recorded 
for the first loan had on her. Satsuma didn't respond to the adjudicator.
As there was no agreement the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Ms S case.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S 
could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ms S' income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
DRN-1054552a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount, or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
 
Like the adjudicator, I don't think Satsuma acted irresponsibly by approving loan 1. I've seen 
that it carried out a credit check for the first loan which showed that Ms S had no loans in 
arrears, no county court judgements and no other significantly adverse recent information. It 
also asked Ms S to provide information about her income and expenditure. Ms S declared 
total income of £4,000 per month and total expenditure of £1,900 - in theory leaving £2,100 
of disposable income.
Satsuma also applied various 'buffers' and 'safeguards' to reduce Ms S' disposable income 
for the purposes of its affordability calculation. Having done that, it thought the monthly 
repayments of £116.20 looked affordable to Ms S. I don't think that was an unreasonable 
conclusion. I'm not therefore upholding the complaint about the first loan and so will not be 
asking Satsuma to make any refunds or amend Ms S' credit file in respect of this loan.
It seems the income and expenditure information Ms S provided when she applied for loan 2 
was identical. But this time the results of Satsuma's credit check were different. Significantly, 
it showed Ms S had an account five payments in arrears. Given that Ms S had declared such 
a high disposable income, this is somewhat surprising, as was the information suggesting 
Ms S was also using other payday lenders since taking out the first Satsuma loan. The 
arrears also suggested a serious deterioration in Ms S' financial situation since the first loan. 
So on this occasion, I don't think Satsuma's checks were proportionate. It wasn't reasonable 
for it to rely so heavily on the information Ms S had provided. And had Satsuma carried out 
proportionate checks, I think it's unlikely it would've found the loan was 
sustainably affordable. I'm therefore upholding the complaint about the second loan.
Finally, I've considered what Ms S said about Satsuma's failure to communicate with her 
clearly. I can see Satsuma has accepted it wasn't always communicating clearly with Ms S 
and it apologised for that. It also explained that it hadn't accepted Ms S' proposal to pay £20 
a month towards her debt as she hadn't provided details of her income and expenditure and 
so it couldn't assess the appropriateness of the proposal. But if offered to reduce the 
balance of her outstanding loan by £100 to compensate her for its unclear communications. I 
think that was a reasonable response and the payment was in line with this service's 
guidelines for causing Ms S distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
Satsuma should rework the second loan to remove all interest and charges applied from the 
outset. It should treat any payments made by Ms S as if they were payments towards the 
principal. In the event Ms S has already repaid more than the principal borrowed, Satsuma 
should refund the payments above this amount, adding interest at 8% simple per year from 
when they were paid until the date of settlement**. Satsuma should also remove any 
adverse information it has recorded about loan two, although it doesn't have to do this until 
after the principal is repaid.
As Ms S still appears to be in financial difficulty, I remind Satsuma it should treat her 
positively and sympathetically. 
**HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Ms S' complaint in part. Provident Personal Credit Limited must put things right by 
taking the steps set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2019.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman