DRN-3747924
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about QIC Europe Ltd have unfairly declined their Buildings 
Insurance claim.
All references to QIC also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute storm conditions were present around the time the damage 
occurred. Wind speeds of up to 70mph were recorded which is strong enough to 
cause the damage reported. So, Ive considered whether Im persuaded the storm 
conditions were the dominant cause of the damage.
QIC said it was unable to inspect a damaged area of the roof as it was covered by 
tarpaulin, and Mr and Mrs B werent present. However, it was able to inspect the 
remainder of the roof. 
In its report, QIC noted there were no signs of serious damage but commented the 
fixings and condition of other areas of the roof were poor. Based on this it concluded 
the covered area was of a similar age and condition  meaning the damage had 
likely occurred due to age related wear and tear. Which is excluded from cover under 
the policy.
While QIC have provided photos of various sections of the roof and other dormers, 
Ive only seen photos of the damaged part of the roof, covered by tarpaulin, provided 
by Mr and Mrs B. QIC have since commented the fixings on this area had failed, 
meaning it was susceptible to high winds.
From reviewing these photos Im not persuaded the fixings are showing signs of wear 
and tear as QIC has said. The general condition of the felt in the damaged area 
appears to be in better condition than other areas of the roof highlighted in QICs 
report. And I think its more likely than not if the fixings had failed as QIC have said, 
more damage would have presented itself in the other areas of the roof. But as QIC 
has said itself  it hasnt. So, Im more persuaded the damage has occurred in the 
way Mr and Mrs B have said.
Mr and Mrs B have requested QIC pay them compensation for the time it has taken 
to bring and administer their complaint. I understand doing so has added to Mr and 
Mrs Bs frustrations, but this is one of lifes inconveniences, and the matter of 
complaint handling itself isnt something that falls within the remit of this service. So, I 
make no award here.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs B have had work carried out to rectify the damage. On production of sufficient 
evidence, such as invoices, QIC should reimburse these costs (minus any outstanding 
excesses). QIC should also add 8% simple interest to this from the date the costs were paid, 
to the date it makes payment to Mr and Mrs B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
To put things right, I direct QIC Europe Ltd to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman