DRN-3596848
The complaint
Miss N complains that Metro Bank PLC removed funds from her account without authority 
and lodged a fraud marker against her.
What happened
Miss N explained that she was contacted by a person (M) on a popular social media site to 
learn how to invest funds online. Miss N was asked to set up an account with an online 
crypto merchant. Miss N was told that the funds would be invested, and a commission 
earned. Miss N then received a payment into her bank account which she transferred to 
another of her accounts before sending to the crypto merchant. 
Metro received a report from another bank that had sent the funds to Miss Ns account. The 
report said the owner of the account had been scammed and the money received by Miss N 
was the result of fraud. 
About three weeks after receiving the payment into her account, Metro removed £239.95 
from Miss Ns account and sent it to the bank account of the person who had claimed the 
funds were the result of a scam. Miss N told Metro that these were her funds and she 
wanted them back.
Miss N believed the money was taken for costs associated with the investigation into the 
scam. Metro declined to return the funds and issued a notice to close the account. After the 
account was closed, Miss Ns remaining funds were left in the account for a period before 
she was able to receive them. Miss N complained to Metro about the situation and she also 
believed that theyd registered a fraud marker against her.
Metro investigated Miss Ns complaint and didnt change their position, but they confirmed 
they hadnt registered any markers against Miss N. So, Miss N then brought her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by 
one of our investigators. Both parties were asked for information about the situation and 
Miss N explained what had happened and that she believed she was also the innocent 
victim of the scammer. Miss N, through her representative sent a statement about the 
events, and copies of letters sent to Metro describing the situation and Miss Ns 
vulnerabilities.
Metro provided information about the fraudulent funds and details of how Miss N had moved 
them to the crypto merchant. Metro believed that they had the authority to remove the 
£239.95 from Miss Ns account because of the scam. Our investigator issued a report that 
partly upheld Miss Ns complaint. He thought that it was reasonable for Metro to return funds 
from the scam and close Miss Ns account but didnt think that Metro had done enough to 
return Miss Ns remaining funds to her. He recommended that Metro pay Miss N £100 
compensation and add 8% simple interest to the funds that Metro held onto.
Metro agreed with the investigators recommendations, but Miss N didnt, believing that the 
funds taken by Metro were hers and not part of the scam. Miss N wanted a further review of 
her complaint which had now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think its contested by either party that once the funds were received into Miss Ns 
account, she then sent those funds to a crypto merchant. What isnt agreed is that Metro 
believe Miss N was responsible for the funds and Miss N says she was an innocent victim of 
the scam as well.
If the overall evidence shows that Miss N was more than likely involved in the fraud, then we 
wouldnt generally object to funds being returned to the person that was scammed. On the 
other hand, if its apparent that Miss N was also a victim, the situation concerning the 
removal of funds becomes less clear.
Miss N has explained that she was also the victim of the scam and produced a written 
statement about her involvement  which in summary was that she was asked to move 
money but thought it was to invest in crypto trading. 
Having looked at the evidence, its apparent that once the funds arrived into her account, 
Miss N moved them on within a few minutes to another account and then sent them to the 
crypto merchant. At the same time, Miss N also moved her own money from her account to 
another account and later said:
The money that was fraud money was £1,172.34 and got cleared out my account in two 
transactions within 10 minutes the rest are account to account transactions from my main to 
my savings as I didnt want to loose my money from when my card got blocked.
I asked what Miss N meant by the above comment and she explained that after moving the 
funds, M told her that her card would be blocked, which was why she moved the funds. 
At the point Miss N received the funds into her account it was functioning properly and Metro 
werent aware at that stage that there was an issue with the incoming funds. Miss Ns card 
wasnt blocked at that point and the statements show her card continued to be used. Miss 
Ns comment seems to indicate that she anticipated there might be a problem with her 
account.
The actions of swiftly moving fraudulent funds to another account or to another merchant are 
often associated with the account holder having some knowledge of whats going on. On its 
own I dont think this would be enough here to consider Miss N had knowledge of the 
fraudulent funds, but together with the transfer of her own funds and her comment that she 
did it to protect her funds from possible future problems after being told by M this leads me 
to conclude that Miss N had at least some understanding that her arrangement with M might 
not be entirely straight forward. I think on balance that Metros removal of funds from her 
account was reasonable.
I understand Miss N believes the funds were taken as some form of investigation expenses, 
but thats not the case here. Metros evidence is that they were returned to the original 
account that suffered the loss from the scam, something that Metro are able to do based on 
the terms of the account.Ive taken into account Miss Ns representatives comments that Miss N was vulnerable at 
the time, which is why I think that Metros decision not to register a fraud marker against 
Miss N was the correct one. 
Closure
Miss Ns account was closed after Metro gave her seven days notice. The terms of the 
agreement between Miss N and Metro allow both parties to end their relationship and Metro 
chose to close her account after a review of it. The terms allow immediate closure under 
certain circumstances, but Metro gave Miss N seven days notice. So here I think that it was 
reasonable for Metro to have closed the account as they did and I wont be asking them to 
change anything about the closure.
After the closure of Miss Ns account, she was left without her remaining funds for some time 
and our investigator recommended that Metro pay Miss N £100 for this unnecessary delay 
and to include simple interest at 8% for the time she was without her funds. Metro accepted 
this and I think this was a reasonable way to deal with the delayed payment and I wont be 
asking Metro to do anything more about this.
 
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, Metro are to pay Miss N £100 and unless already paid, to 
calculate simple interest at 8% applied to the funds remaining in her account from when it 
was closed to when it was paid to Miss N.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and Metro Bank PLC are instructed to 
settle the complaint as described above. For the avoidance of doubt, I do not uphold Miss 
Ns complaint about the closure of the account or the return of funds from her account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman