DRN-3608189
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) provided him with credit he couldnt afford 
to repay.
 
What happened
HSBC approved a credit card application for Mr T in July 2016. They provided a credit limit 
of £5,500.
Mr T says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
HSBC disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they used a 
combination of credit reference agency, computer modelling, and self-reported information to 
assess the application. They say that Mr Ts credit file demonstrated he was managing his 
credit commitments well; there were no County Court Judgments against him, no arrears on 
his accounts, and no defaults. They identified £3,200 of unsecured debt on the file but when 
considering Mr Ts income of £25,000 per year and his likely expenditure, they still thought 
he would have sufficient disposable income to sustainably afford the credit provided.
Our investigator didnt agree and thought the credit was unaffordable, so the complaint has 
been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont think HSBC completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. They 
havent been able to provide a copy of the credit file they reviewed and have only provided a 
summary of the data, that suggests only the last six months of activity was considered 
(although HSBC have suggested they reviewed three years). Mr T has provided a copy of 
the credit file and that shows that prior to the application hed missed several payments to 
other creditors during 2015 and had been over a credit card limit for five consecutive months 
before December 2015. 
Whilst HSBC took into account repayments towards his unsecured debt I cant see that they 
considered repayments towards his revolving credit commitments. Once the credit limit on 
this new card was taken into account they would have reached £8,940.
The FCA's Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) applies to all credit-related regulated 
activities. Its section on Creditworthiness and Sustainability said at the time Mr T applied for 
the credit card, that a lender must assume the consumer draws down the entire credit limit 
and it may consider the consumer repays that amount by instalments over a reasonable 
period. If Mr T had drawn down the whole credit limit and repaid over a couple of years that 
instalment would have been about £365. Taking that into account and adding the rent, spend 
and unsecured credit repayments HSBC had calculated it would have left Mr T with very little 
disposable income.
The credit file would have demonstrated that he was already using the majority of his credit 
limit and that there had been some missed payments in 2015. Hed also been over his credit 
limit on a credit card for five consecutive months in late 2015. I think the overall picture was 
of a consumer who was already struggling to meet his monthly commitments. I dont think it 
was therefore responsible for HSBC to extend the credit it did as it wasnt affordable for       
Mr T.
Putting things right
As I dont think HSBC should have approved the credit card application I dont think its fair 
for it to charge any interest or charges. However, Mr T has had the benefit of all the money 
he spent on the account so I think he should pay that back. Therefore, HSBC should:
1. Refund all interest, charges, and insurances Mr T has paid (which have not already 
been refunded). 
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce the outstanding balance by the amount 
calculated in Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, ensure that it isnt 
subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if Step 2 leads to a 
positive balance the amount in question should be given back to Mr T with 8% simple 
interest*.
4. Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr Ts credit file as a 
result of the interest and charges.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it does, the business must give the
consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman