DRN-2379191
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tandem Bank Limited (Tandem) changed the terms and conditions of 
his credit card account.
What happened
Tandem wrote to Mr G to say that they were changing the terms and conditions of his credit 
card account. They were introducing Tandem Membership, which would give Mr G access to 
various benefits but involved the introduction of a new monthly fee. The letter gave him 
advance notice of the change and said that, if he chose not to become a member, he 
wouldnt be able to use his card after 9 March 2020 and that his agreement with Tandem 
would end when his balance was repaid in full. Mr G says this was unfair, as Tandem gave 
him no option other than to accept the new terms or close his account.
Mr G called Tandem to discuss the letter and made a complaint. He says he didnt hear 
anything from them, so he called again a month or so later. The call handler told Mr G that a 
final response letter had been sent to him, but that it had been returned marked gone 
away. The call handler couldnt read the letter to Mr G over the phone, so he asked for it to 
be sent to him again. Mr G says he never received the letter. He made several calls to 
Tandem to chase it up but says that they werent helpful.
Because Mr G was unhappy with the change to his account and the level of service he 
received from Tandem, he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that Tandem had acted fairly in relation to the change of terms and 
conditions. She explained that its not within the remit of this service to look at complaints 
about complaint handling, but Tandem wrote to Mr G separately to apologise that the service 
he received didnt meet the high standards they aim to provide.
Mr G remained unhappy with the situation and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. He says he never received the final response letter from Tandem and only saw 
it for the first time when our investigator obtained a copy and sent it on to him. Hes not 
satisfied that Tandem dealt with the complaint correctly and hes unhappy with the level of 
service they provided when responding to his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The change which Tandem made to Mr Gs account involved the introduction of various 
benefits in return for a monthly fee. The terms and conditions of Mr Gs account allowed 
Tandem to introduce new fees and Im satisfied they were entitled to make this change. 
They had to give Mr G not less than two months notice and Im satisfied they did that here.
The terms and conditions also said that, if Mr G was unhappy with any change, he could 
close his account. The terms said that, if Mr G didnt close his account, he would be deemed 
to have accepted the changes.
In relation to the new Tandem Membership, Mr G had to take positive steps to sign up to it. If 
he did nothing, he wouldnt be able to use his card after the date the changes were 
introduced, and his agreement with Tandem would end when his balance was repaid in full. 
Under the terms and conditions, doing nothing would usually amount to acceptance of any 
changes by Mr G. But, in this case, the opposite applied  doing nothing meant rejection of 
the changes by Mr G, which in turn meant his account would be closed.
 
Because the changes Tandem were introducing meant that Mr G would start incurring a 
monthly fee, I think it was responsible of Tandem to require positive acceptance of this 
change by Mr G, rather than taking his silence as an acceptance of the new charges. If Mr G 
wanted to accept the change and become a Member, he had two months to do so. Failing 
that, Tandem would end the agreement. I think this was a reasonable approach, which 
Tandem were entitled to take under the terms and conditions.
The other aspect of Mr Gs complaint is to do with the service he received from Tandem. He 
doesnt think it was satisfactory and he says he never received the final response letter from 
them  he only received a copy when our investigator obtained it and sent it on. From the 
information which is available to me, Im satisfied that Tandem sent the final response letter 
to Mr G on 12 January 2020. Im not sure why Mr G didnt receive it but, from the evidence 
available, I cant conclude that it was Tandems fault. So I cant fairly ask them to do 
anything about that.
I realise that Mr G feels strongly about the service issues which he experienced after that. 
But Im afraid theyre not issues which I can look at. When considering complaints, Im bound 
by the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, which say we can only look at complaints 
about certain activities carried out by financial businesses. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity and its not one of the things this service can look into. So I cant make a 
decision about the concerns Mr G has raised about the way Tandem handled his complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but, for the reasons above, I dont think Tandem acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in relation to the changes to his account. So Im not going to ask them to do 
anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman