DRN-4465499
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt fairly settled 
her claim.
All references to Great Lakes include any agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs W bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes. She booked a trip 
abroad but her outbound flight was delayed. Mrs W made a claim for the delay and loss of 
one nights accommodation. Great Lakes calculated and paid a benefit for the travel delay 
but said Mrs W wasnt covered for the loss of accommodation as she hadnt purchased 
additional travel disruption cover which would have covered her circumstances. 
Mrs W raised a complaint and unhappy with Great Lakes response, referred her complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Great Lakes had done anything 
wrong. Mrs W disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
And so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Under the travel delay section of the policy, the terms say: We pay up to £20 for the 
first full 12 hours and £10 for each following full 12-hour period thereafter, up to a 
total of £300 for Basic cover and £50 for the first full 12 hours then £10 for each 
following full 12-hour period thereafter, up to a total of £1,500 for Comprehensive 
cover if the intended departure of your first outwardis delayed
Great Lakes accepted that the claim was covered under the travel delay section and 
paid the benefit due which was £60 based on the length of the delay.
Mrs W says Great Lakes should also have paid for her loss of one nights stay as her 
travel delay was the cause of her loss and she feels this is covered under the travel 
delay section. The travel delay section sets out clearly that a fixed benefit is paid for 
every 12-hour period of delay. Mrs W did not purchase the optional travel disruption 
extension which would have covered unused accommodation costs as a result of 
delay. As the extension wasnt purchased, Mrs W doesnt have cover for her unused 
accommodation costs and so I cant fairly ask Great Lakes to pay those costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman