DRN-3437660
Complaint
Miss P has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to 
her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Miss P with a loan for £3,000.00 in December 2015. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £200. One of our adjudicators 
reviewed Miss Ps complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Miss P 
with this loan. So she thought that Miss Ps complaint should be upheld. Avant Credit 
disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ps complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Miss P could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The credit check Avant Credit carried out clearly demonstrated that Miss P was significantly 
indebted. She was over her credit limit on at least one of her account and she had a history 
of high-cost and other payday lending. So Im persuaded by what Miss P has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time. And while its possible her credit file 
reflected her choices rather than because she was struggling, Id add that my experience of 
these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible 
arguments from Avant Credit, Ive been persuaded to accept Miss Ps version of events. 
As this is the case, I think Miss Ps existing financial position meant she was unlikely to be 
able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. So Im 
satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not have shown Avant 
Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan. As Avant Credit provided Miss P with this 
loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss P has ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss P lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Miss P
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Miss P by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss P made, whether to Avant Credit or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £3,000.00 originally lent. If 
Miss P has already repaid more than £3,000.00 then Avant Credit should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss P;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss P to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Avant Credit recorded about this loan should be removed from Miss Ps 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this. Avant Credit must 
provide a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if Miss P asks for one.
Id also remind Avant Credit of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if 
it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-
party debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account 
and its the case that Miss P is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman