DRN-2130833
The complaint
Mr S complains about the sale of his private medical insurance policy by Usay Business 
Limited.
 
What happened
Mr S was covered under an existing private medical insurance policy. Then in 2017, Mr S 
was sold a new policy by Usay, which didnt include protected no claims discount (NCD). 
After making a claim, Mr Ss premium was increased at renewal by the insurer. Mr S 
complained to Usay about its advice not to take out the protected NCD, as the amount of 
premium increase wouldnt have been so high if hed had this in place. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Usays 
recommendation not to include the protected NCD was reasonable, and that Mr S was given 
the opportunity to include it if hed wanted.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy was taken out on an advised basis. That meant Usay needed to give Mr S 
suitable advice, based on his circumstances and requirements. 
Ive listened to the calls that took place between Mr S and Usay. There was one call in 
particular where they discussed the protected NCD. Mr S specifically asked Usays adviser 
about it, as he was concerned about his premiums increasing. The adviser said he hadnt 
recommended it because if Mr S made a claim and the insurer wanted to increase the 
premium, it would look to negotiate the premium at renewal on his behalf. 
Its apparent from the conversation that Mr S understood the insurer may not agree to 
reduce the premium at renewal. He then asked the adviser about the cost of the protected 
NCD. The adviser confirmed it would be around £60 extra per month. Mr S commented on 
three occasions during that conversation that that was a lot of money. The adviser then 
advised him not to pay £700 (a year) when it may not be necessary.
In deciding whether to recommend the protected NCD, Id have expected Usay to take into 
account Mr Ss claims history. If Mr S had a history of making regular claims under his 
previous policy, Id have expected Usay to recommend the protected NCD  on the basis 
that the likelihood of him making future claims would have been quite high and the protected 
NCD would have therefore been appropriate.
Usay has pointed out that Mr S hadnt made a claim under his previous policy in the last five 
years. Taking this into account, and because Usay thought it would likely be able to 
negotiate the premium at renewal with the insurer, I can understand why Usay didnt think 
the protected NCD offered good value for money. 
Whilst the adviser specifically advised against taking out the protected NCD, I think that Mr S 
understood the risks of not taking it out. I also see that Mr S was happy to make his own 
decisions about the cover he wanted which included going against the advisers 
recommendations. For example, Mr S chose to increase the excess amount under the policy 
from the amount recommended to him.
Although Mr S would now be in a better financial position had he taken out the protected 
NCD, we only know this with the benefit of hindsight. If the adviser had recommended the 
protected NCD and Mr S didnt need to claim for a number of years, he may well have 
questioned why the protected NCD had been recommended to him when he didnt have a 
history of making regular claims. 
Overall, the protected NCD didnt form part of the core cover under the policy, and was an 
additional option with an additional monthly cost. Based on Mr Ss claims history, I think the 
advice not to take it out was reasonable. Although the adviser thought that Usay would be 
able to negotiate a lower premium with the insurer if Mr S were to make a claim, that ended 
up not being the case. Though I think Mr S was aware of the risks of that happening, and 
chose not to protect the NCD.  
Consequently, I dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman