DRN-4103213
The complaint
Mr M complains about the poor service he received from WPS ADVISORY Ltd when he was 
trying to transfer his defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal 
pension arrangement. Mr M considers that WPS ADVISORY Ltd caused delays to the 
transfer and he suffered a loss because a new CETV (Cash Equivalent Transfer Value) was 
required which was significantly lower. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. She sent her assessment of it to both 
parties in March 2023. The background and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons 
why she thought it should be upheld were set out in her assessment. 
In summary, the investigator said that Mr M had requested a transfer value from his OPS in 
December 2021. Mr M received a letter from WPS ADVISORY Ltd (which I will refer to as 
WPS) on 14 December 2021 explaining that he could engage it to provide advice, paid for by 
the OPS Trustees, about a transfer from the scheme. 
Mr M contacted WPS and a call to discuss a potential transfer was arranged for 21 February 
2022. The call was subsequently changed to 22 February 2022. Following the call WPS 
carried out a Pension Transfer Analysis which recorded the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value 
(CETV) as £382,603. This CETV was guaranteed until 24 March 2022. WPS had another 
call with Mr M to discuss the transfer on 3 March 2022. The adviser said based on the 
information he had so far, he didnt think WPS could support a transfer recommendation. Mr 
M went on to explain the reasons why he thought a transfer was worthwhile however, 
ultimately, the adviser didnt change his mind. He said he would provide written confirmation 
of his advice.
Mr M wasnt happy with how the call had been handled, and he contacted WPS Chief 
Operating Officer (COO). It was agreed that Mr Ms transfer would be considered by a more 
senior adviser.
The new adviser e-mailed Mr M on 4 March 2022 to say she would review everything so far 
and, as the transfer value was only an estimate, would request a guaranteed quote. A call 
was arranged for 14 March 2022 as it was convenient for both parties. The adviser e-mailed 
Mr M the next day explaining she would need further information from him for her review.
On 1 April 2022 the adviser e-mailed Mr M to say she was happy to move forward. She said 
she was waiting for a recalculation of the CETV due to the current one expiring.
There was some further correspondence between Mr M and WPS during April about
the pension that Mr M was planning on transferring to. Ultimately it was decided he wouldnt 
go ahead with a transfer to that provider due to additional charges that could be applied.
During this time, WPS COO was also in contact with the OPS regarding the CETV and the
requirement of an updated guaranteed value.
On 6 May 2022 Mr Ms adviser sent him an e-mail explaining it was her last day working for 
WPS and she required additional information as soon as possible.  The adviser didnt speak 
to Mr M before she left. And a new adviser contacted Mr M on 19 May 2022 confirming that 
he had taken over. He asked for the same information. The investigator said Mr M provided 
the information to the new adviser on 23 May 2022 (Mr M has subsequently said he had 
already provided this information).
Between early June and mid-July 2022 Mr M sent several follow up e-mails and made calls 
to WPS, as the updated CETV hadnt been provided to him. He was told it was being 
followed up and they hadnt received it yet.
Mr M subsequently found out, via a letter from the OPS, that the full fee for the CETV hadnt 
been paid by WPS and this was the reason for the delay. Unable to get a response from 
WPS, he paid the additional fee.
On 18 August 2022 a new guaranteed CETV of £261,316 was issued. It was guaranteed for 
three months. A new Pension Transfer Analysis report was carried out on 23 August 2022.
After this point, Mr Ms case was sent for a third final check with WPS CEO. Unhappy with 
the delays, Mr M decided to use a different advisory business to move ahead with the 
transfer. The investigator said her understanding was the new firm was engaged on 28 
September 2022. And that the transfer went ahead with the transfer value paid to the 
personal pension provider on 14 November 2022.
Having considered all the evidence provided by both parties, our investigator recommended 
that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it would have been possible for the 
advice process to have been completed in time to meet the original guarantee date (24 
March 2022). However she did think WPS caused delays obtaining an updated CETV.
The investigator said that pension transfer advice was a legal requirement for safeguarded 
benefits over £30,000. She said valuable guarantees were lost when transferring, so the 
Regulators starting position was that a transfer was unlikely to be suitable or in the 
consumers best interests. 
The investigator said that when Mr M approached WPS he had already received a CETV, 
and so the clock had started ticking on that quotation. She acknowledged that there was a 
period after Mr M had contacted WPS when Mr M had had to wait for a telephone 
appointment. But she thought it was reasonable to expect a certain amount of time for a 
business to arrange appointments and carry out any initial work required. She said Mr Ms 
first telephone appointment was on 22 February 2022  so this only left around one month 
for the bulk of WPS research, analysis and recommendation to be provided.
The investigator said although the original adviser seemed to have only considered the 
transfer in light of basic information available initially, she thought WPS would have needed 
the information it subsequently requested at some point. And that it was reasonable to some 
degree for further information to be required during the transfer advice process. She said 
even if a new adviser hadnt been required, she didnt think the advice process would have 
been completed by 24 March 2022. 
However the investigator noted that WPS was aware that the OPS was changing its 
administration service provider. And that from 5pm on 5 May 2022 there would be limited 
access to members pensions, until the change completed on 23 May 2022. The investigator 
said from what she had seen the first time that WPS contacted the OPS administrators 
regarding an updated CETV was in an e-mail on 1 April 2022. WPS had requested a one-
month extension on the guarantee period as it had agreed it could go ahead and process the transfer, and reports could be issued the next week.
The OPS administrators responded on 4 April 2022 saying they couldnt extend the 
guarantee period past 7 April 2022. And that they would need the transfer option and 
financial advice forms provided to secure the CETV of £382,603. They said remaining 
information could be provided as soon as possible after this.
WPS responded on the same day saying it was in the process of finishing the advice report 
and it wasnt able to get the forms to the administrators by then. It said it would need a re-
calculation.
The investigator noted that WPS didnt contact the administrators again until 22 April 2022.  
It said it needed a new value and it agreed to pick up the cost. It subsequently didnt pay all 
of the fee which Mr M discovered in July 2022 after he contacted WPS several times for 
updates on the transfer. Mr M paid the outstanding amount (£25) as the new CETV couldnt 
be provided until the full fee had been paid.
The investigator also said she was usure why WPS waited until 22 April 2022 to request the 
new CETV, when it knew it was needed on 4 April 2022 - when the administrators said the 
deadline couldnt be extended. And she said WPS had delayed matters by not paying the 
correct fee. The investigator said had WPS formally requested it on 4 April and paid the right 
fee, she thought the CETV could have been received within a couple of weeks - 18 April 
2022 - before the change in administrators. She said this value would have been guaranteed 
for three months, so until around 18 July 2022.
The investigator said that from everything shed seen, it appeared that WPS had everything 
it required to proceed by 23 May 2022. So, taking into account a further two weeks to allow 
for the advice to be finalised and the administration to be completed, she thought Mr M 
would have been in the position to apply for the transfer by 6 June 2022. Allowing time for 
the OPS administrators to complete their side of the process and given the timescales of 
what happened when Mr M transferred through another firm, she thought it would have 
taken around three weeks for the transfer to be completed. The investigator therefore 
thought the transferred funds would have reached the new pension provider by 27 June 
2022.
The investigator went on to consider whether WPS would have recommended the transfer 
given that WPS didnt complete its advice process. She said that after considering the 
correspondence sent by the second adviser to Mr M confirming she was comfortable to 
move forward with the transfer, and the content of the e-mails from WPS to the OPS 
administrators saying it had agreed to process the transfer and arrange for the reports to be
sent to their writing team and issued in the next week, it followed that the advice was going 
to be positive, and the transfer would have been arranged.
Taking all the above into account, the investigator thought that Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld. She thought that WPS would have recommended a transfer. And that the CETV 
would have been issued on 18 April 2022 and the transfer completed by 27 June 2022. The 
investigator went on to set out how she thought WPS should calculate and pay 
compensation to Mr M based on these dates. 
Mr M didnt agree with all of the investigators findings. He put forward some further points 
for consideration.
WPS didnt accept the investigators findings. It asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
However it didnt provide any further evidence or arguments to consider.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons.
Like the investigator, I think WPS ought to have requested the new CETV on 4 April 2022 - 
when the administrators said the deadline couldnt be extended. In my opinion what the 
investigator assumed in terms of timeliness was reasonable from the point that WPS was 
alerted it wasnt possible to extend the date for the original CETV. I note Mr M has said he 
had already provided the information that WPS had requested on 19 May 2022. However 
even if the adviser had considered that information on 19 May 2022 there was a weekend 
before 23 May 2002. And the OPSs administrators were in the process of changing. Its not 
possible to know exactly what would have happened and when in looking back in hindsight, 
and these matters need to be considered in the light of what would have been considered 
reasonable at the time. I think it was reasonable to assume the CETV could have been 
received by 18 April 2022, and the transferred funds would have reached the new pension 
provider by 27 June 2022 given all the circumstances.
Mr M has said he thinks if WPS had carried out its advice process with due diligence and 
promptness he would have obtained the original transfer value. 
As the investigator explained, the Regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), requires 
that when firms recommend a transfer of safeguarded benefits to a retail client they should 
start by assuming that a transfer will not be suitable. Its clear that Mr M was very keen to 
transfer. But the firms role wasnt merely to facilitate Mr Ms wishes to transfer. It was 
obliged to give its own professional recommendation on the suitability or otherwise of a 
transfer  even if Mr M didnt agree with that recommendation. 
The Regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) sets out the rules that firms have 
to follow in order to ensure that, ultimately, they provide advice that is suitable for the client. 
They are extensive. And where firms fail to meet their obligations under those rules they can 
be liable for the losses that flow from that failure. Pension transfer cases can involve large 
sums of money and a firms liability can be significant. So clearly firms will want to ensure 
they take all the steps necessary to ensure they provide suitable advice.
Mr M has referred to the second adviser having to request further information after the first 
adviser had already made a conclusion on his case. He said it was clear the first adviser 
didnt do a thorough enough job. As Ive said above, the firms starting point was that a 
transfer would not be suitable. On further investigation it appears the firm did think a transfer 
was likely going to be suitable. I understand Mr Ms point that this might suggest that the first 
adviser didnt obtain sufficient information in the first place. However Im not assessing the 
suitability of the transfer here. And that further investigation was always going to be 
necessary. Its not unusual that the position develops over time with further information and 
or discussions. Whats material is that I dont think the first advisers actions resulted in the 
original CETV being missed.
Mr M has questioned why WPS didnt send the documents that the OPS administrators said 
it could send to it by 7 April 2022 (in an email sent on 4 April 2022) to secure the CETV. 
WPS may have been on the road to recommending a transfer but it wasnt at the end of its 
process. As Ive said above, the position can change over time, and there are a number of 
compliance checks and balances built into the process before a firm provides its formal 
advice. It appears that the firm did require further information from Mr M prior to providing its final advice. But the point is, as I say, this area of advice is highly regulated, and even where 
clients are very keen to transfer a firm has to satisfy itself its met all the associated 
regulatory requirements expected of it. In my view the firm wasnt obliged to provide those 
forms to the OPS at that point given it hadnt completed all its own processes. 
Mr M has queried why the second adviser referred to the transfer value as only an estimate 
and asked what happened to the CETV requested by WPS on 25 February 2022. It appears 
that the adviser wasnt aware that Mr M had a CETV at that point. And that WPS had 
requested a CETV but were given the value that Mr M already had  and with the same 
guaranteed date of 25 March 2022. But again, I think the key point is that I dont think this 
misunderstanding caused WPS to miss the original deadline. 
Mr M has referred to the delay between him first contacting WPS and the first appointment. 
The letter that the OPS administrators sent to Mr M dated 24 December 2021 explained that 
the CETV was only guaranteed for three months and expired on 24 March 2022. It also 
explained that exploring a transfer could be a lengthy process and receiving financial advice 
itself could take six to eight weeks. It went onto provide estimated timescales for the other 
steps in the process. The letter said if the application or documentation was received by the 
administrators after the three-month guarantee period the CETV would be re-calculated. And 
that it could be a lower value.
So I think Mr M was reasonably alerted that the CETV was only guaranteed for a three- 
month period and the likely timescales for a transfer to be arranged. I realise that Mr M 
chased the firm because he hadnt heard back from it. And by the time of the first discussion 
about a potential transfer on 22 February 2022 there was only just over four weeks to the 
CETV deadline. Time was always going to be very tight from that point. Once WPS had met 
with Mr M and was aware of his circumstances it was effectively on the clock. However 
prior to that I think Mr M ought reasonably to have been aware of the timescales involved. 
So if he wanted to try and ensure that he secured that particular transfer value (transfer 
values can increase or decrease) he had the option to use another advising firm which was 
able to provide advice at an earlier date  albeit I accept at the cost of that advice.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
WPS Advisory Ltd should contact the original OPS and ask it to confirm what CETV would 
have been given if it had been issued on 18 April 2022.
WPS Advisory Ltd should then obtain a notional value of what Mr Ms personal pension 
would have been worth at the date of this decision, assuming it had received and invested 
the 18 April 2022 CETV on 27 June 2022.
WPS Advisory Ltd should compare this with the actual value of Mr Ms pension at the same 
date.
If the notional value is higher than the actual value there is a loss. If there is a loss WPS 
Advisory Ltd should pay such an amount as is required into Mr Ms pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation.
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. If its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr Ms
pension, it should be paid directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the pension, it
would have provided a taxable income as well as tax free cash. Therefore, the compensationshould notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid  the
notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ms actual or expected marginal
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Mr M took the maximum amount of tax-free cash available to him on 14 November
2022. WPS should pay 8% simple interest on the tax-free cash that was actually taken 
between 27 June 2022 and 14 November 2022 to recognise the time he was deprived 
access to those funds. 
WPS Advisory Ltd should also pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience Im 
satisfied the matter has caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I order WPS ADVISORY Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to Mr M as I have outlined 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman