DRN-2028399
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs L say that Yorkshire Building Society trading at the time as Chelsea 
Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them the PPI in October 2007.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a joint mortgage. At the same time they bought the PPI in Mr Ls sole 
name. This policy covered Mr L if he was off work through an accident, sickness or if he lost 
his job. The monthly premiums were free for the first two years of the cover. After that the 
policy cost £44.06 monthly from November 2009 and later reduced to £34.35 from February 
2010. The policy provided the monthly benefit of £574.
Mr and Mrs L have told us in summary, that they never requested the PPI and it was applied 
without their consent. As both Mr and Mrs L worked in their jobs for many years and had full 
pay they did not need the PPI. And they say they never requested this type of cover on any 
mortgage theyd taken out.
 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold and he didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with this view and asked that their matter be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs L that I have considered everything they have told me, and I 
realise how strongly they feel about this complaint. After taking into account everything, Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L, but Im afraid I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain 
why below. 
Mr and Mrs L are adamant that they never agreed to the PPI and it must have therefore 
been added without their consent. So, the first thing Ive thought about was whether they 
were given a fair choice and whether its more likely they agreed to the PPI or not. YBS has 
provided a copy of various documents completed at the time. 
The mortgage application form is difficult to read and in parts it is illegible. But overall, I can 
see that various ticks were placed on the form and full details of such matters as Mr and Mrs 
Ls property details, financial history and employment details have been completed and Mr 
and Mrs L have signed and dated the form on 5 September 2007. So it looks like they 
engaged with the application process. At part 9 of the form it is headed Insurance details. 
Again, this is difficult to read word for word, but I can see there is a part which is headed 
protect your mortgage payments and I can see that this section has been ticked to say they 
wanted the cover. If Mr and Mrs L didnt want the PPI they could have opted not to have the 
PPI. 
To think the PPI was applied without their consent, Id have to think that YBS added it 
without their knowledge after they signed the form and I think thats unlikely. There is simply 
no evidence to this effect. On balance the evidence shows that PPI was discussed and was 
referred to in the paperwork which Mr and Mrs L signed. I also think Mr and Mrs L would 
have read the form they were signing before taking on such a large financial commitment.
The Chelsea Payment Protection Declaration form has been provided. This form has been 
completed. It looks to me as if Mr L spoke with David at YBS on 13 September 2007 and 
discussed the PPI at that time confirming he wanted to take out Accident, sickness and 
unemployment insurance.
I have also seen a copy of the mortgage offer. Section 9 covers Insurance. This part of the 
offer clearly states you are not obliged to take out any insurance through Chelsea Building 
Society. Then I can see that the PPI is referred to and asks Mr and Mrs L to refer to the 
insurance details set out in another document.
The policy was free for the first two years and after that Mr and Mrs L paid for the policy per 
month so if theyd wanted to question it, they could have done at any time - I havent seen 
evidence that they did so, and they could also have cancelled it at any time.
I think its also likely that after the first two years had expired, they would more likely have 
been sent notification of this and would have realised that they were paying a monthly 
premium for the policy. I can also see that the policy was taken in Mr Ls name only so that 
indicates to me that this wasnt something that they needed to have to get the mortgage and 
its more likely they chose the cover to protect Mr L in case he couldnt work or lost his job.
On balance I think its more likely that they chose to take out the cover to protect their 
mortgage repayments and they would have known they could refuse it if they didnt want it - 
even if its understandable if they dont remember everything about the sale after so long.
I dont think YBS advised Mr and Mrs L to take out the cover. That means it didnt have to 
make sure it was a suitable policy. It still had to give them clear enough information though 
so that they could make an informed choice about whether they wanted the cover.
Its possible not all the information was given to Mr and Mrs L about the PPI. That is not 
enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether if theyd been given 
all the information they should have been given, they would have decided against taking it 
out.
To help me decide Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs L have told me about Mr Ls personal 
circumstances.
Mr L (the person covered) was eligible for the cover and as he was working, I dont think he 
would have been affected by any of the limitations and exclusions set out in the policy terms 
and conditions about his employment circumstances. I have noted that Mr L did have a pre-
existing medical condition. Sometimes this might make a difference to a decision to take out 
the policy. I have also noted that our adjudicator felt the exclusion would have been drawn to 
Mr and Mrs Ls attention. But even if it wasnt, Mr Ls condition wasnt one which had caused 
any ongoing problems. He told us he never had taken time off work and had no medication 
or other treatment for it. So, I dont think its likely he would have thought hed need to take a 
prolonged time off work because of it. Overall, I dont think this would have made a 
difference to his decision to take out the policy.Mr L has told me he had benefits from work which would have paid him around 12 weeks 
sick pay followed by statutory sick pay. Mr and Mrs L have said they had no savings. So this 
policy would have covered Mr L for longer than his sick pay lasted and in addition to it. If Mr 
L couldnt work or lost his job, Mr and Mrs Ls overall household income would have 
reduced. This policy covered their mortgage repayments, the consequences of not being 
able to repay their mortgage were serious and might have meant they could lose their home. 
So, I think the PPI could have been useful at what could have been a difficult time financially 
if Mr L couldnt work.
Theres also nothing to make me think the policy was unaffordable and it provided a 
reasonable benefit for its cost.
Overall, I think the PPI could have been useful to cover Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage 
repayments, if Mr L found himself unable to work or without work. I think its more likely they 
chose to take out the policy and I cant say it was unaffordable. With these things in mind I 
dont think they would have changed their mind about buying the cover even if YBS had told 
them everything it should have done.
Im sorry to disappoint them but I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman