DRN-3653491
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt paid a fair settlement when she
made a claim under her home contents insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2021 Ms M was living as a tenant in a property which was damaged by fire and
she made a claim to her insurer, Ageas.
Ageas settled part of Ms Ms claim. The parties didnt agree on a settlement for alternative
accommodation (AA). Ageas paid what it said was correct and in line with the policy terms.
Ms M said it wasnt correct as it didnt cover the costs she paid. So Ms M raised a complaint.
In February 2022 Ageas didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. It said it had asked for reasonable
evidence of financial loss from Ms M but she didnt provide it. Ms M explained that she had
an informal agreement with the landlord and so didnt have a tenancy agreement. Ageas
said it therefore couldnt calculate the rent Ms M usually paid without proof  and it had paid
a part settlement in error for AA costs without completing all of its checks.
Ageas said it would consider the claim if it received the required evidence. In March 2022
Ageas paid Ms M for AA costs she paid from 6 March 2021 to 24 April 2021. However,
Ageas deducted the equivalent rent Ms M said she usually pays while in her home from the
settlement. Ms M had told Ageas she wasnt required to pay rent while she wasnt living at
the property.
Ms M asked us to look at her complaint. She said Ageas had given her conflicting
information about what was covered under the claim. She wanted Ageas to cover the costs
of her AA in full until the time she moved back in May 2021.
Our Investigator didnt think Ageas request for some evidence of rental payments from Ms
M was unreasonable. She thought it was fair in order for Ageas to be able to consider Ms
Ms financial loss  but Ms M had refused to provide such evidence. So without any proof of
paying rent, the Investigator thought Ageas had correctly rejected Ms Ms claim here.
Looking at the history of the claim, the Investigator thought overall Ageas had dealt with it in
a reasonable timeframe.
Ms M didnt agree. She said she claimed for the cost she paid for AA while she could not live
in her home. She said Ageas only considered the costs from 6 March 2021 to 24 April 2021
 but she was unable to move back into her home until all her contents were returned on 21
May 2021.
Ms M said she provided details of her rent to Ageas but is unable to provide proof of
payment or a rent book. She says she has provided proof of paying a total of £4,956.33 for
AA but Ageas has only paid £1,991.33 which isnt enough.
Our Investigator issued a follow up view in June 2022. She didnt recommend the complaint
should be upheld. She thought Ageas had acted within the terms of the policy. She
explained that although some contents werent returned to Ms Ms home until May 2021,
Ageas said the home was habitable from 24 April 2021. So the Investigator didnt find Ageas
was responsible for AA costs from this date to when Ms M moved back in May 2021.
Ms M didnt agree. She feels it was unreasonable to expect her to have moved back into her
home without basic items such as towels, bedding and pillows. She said she had very little
clothing until they were returned in May 2021. As a lay person, Ms M says she interprets the
policy wording to say that Ageas will pay for the costs of AA and will also cover the costs of
any rent while unable to live in the home. So she doesnt think it fair that Ageas deducted the
usual rental payment from the AA costs she paid and has provided receipts for.
Ms M wanted Ageas to cover the full costs of her AA until she moved back into her home in
May 2021.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 July 2022. I thought Ageas policy wording clearly said 
it would pay for both alternative accommodation and rent if Ms M had to pay rent. As Ms M 
hadnt paid rent while in AA, I didnt think it reasonable - or in line with the policy - for Ageas 
to deduct the rental equivalent from the claim settlement. 
I found that although Ms M had asked for items to be returned to her in April 2021, essential 
items such as bedding and towels werent returned to her until around a month later. I didnt 
think this therefore qualified as making her home habitable during this period. 
So I intended to ask Ageas to meet the full costs Ms M paid for alternative accommodation 
which she has provided receipts of payment for until the date she moved back into her home 
with interest.
Ms M didnt reply to my provisional decision. Ageas didnt agree. Ive addressed their 
comments in my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms policy with Ageas says the following about AA:
Alternative accommodation
If you cannot live in your home because of damage insured under this section:
 We will pay the reasonable cost of necessary alternative accommodation for you,
your family and domestic pets until you can live in your home again and
 If you are a tenant, We will also pay any rent that you have to pay while you are not
living in your home.
I think the policy wording clearly says by having the word and that Ageas will cover the
costs of both alternative accommodation and if a tenant, any rental payment while not living
in the home.
I dont think Ageas should meet the costs of rent while Ms M wasnt in her home as she has
explained that she didnt have to pay during this period. However, Im unable to see why
Ageas has deducted an amount equivalent to rent from the AA settlement. Ageas policy
says it will cover both as it says also in relation to any rent payments.
Ms M isnt asking for payment of rent  only the costs of AA  and as she has provided proofI think the policy clearly says it will meet these costs.
Ageas says that it deducted the equivalent amount of rent from the AA settlement as Ms M
didnt pay rent while she wasnt in her property and would therefore be in a position of
betterment. But I dont think thats fair and I think Ageas hasnt acted within the terms of its
policy. Nowhere can I see Ageas explain that it will deduct the equivalent of a rental payment
from any AA sum it pays.
In response to my provisional findings, Ageas didnt comment on its policy wording. It says it 
would only cover the rent if there had been a financial loss. It says insurance isnt in place for 
a customer to be put in a better position, but in the same position as it would otherwise have 
been in. 
Ive reviewed again the policy wording provided by Ageas. Put simply, Ageas says it will pay 
as follows:
AA = £1,000, rent = £700. If Ms M had to pay AA and rent, Ageas will pay £1,700. 
As Ms M didnt have to pay rent, my view is that Ageas should therefore pay £1,000. 
Ageas however deducted the £700 for rent Ms M didnt pay from the AA costs of £1,000 and 
paid Ms M £300. 
The figures used are an example to simplify my understanding of Ageas policy wording.
So I remain of the view that Ageas has acted unreasonably in deducting the cost of 
equivalent rent from the AA settlement it paid Ms M. This is not what the policy says it will 
do. 
Ms M disagrees that her home was habitable before the remaining contents were returned to
her on 21 May 2021.
I couldnt find a definition of uninhabitable under Ageas policy. So Ive considered what Ms
M has said about this and what I consider fair and reasonable.
On 9 September 2021 a contractor emailed Ageas to say Ms M asked for the return of her
contents on 23 April 2021.
Ageas has confirmed that some items were returned to Ms M, but the remaining items which
included bedding, towels, clothes and soft furnishings were returned to her on 21 May 2021.
Ageas hasnt provided an explanation as to why the contents were returned this way to Ms
M.
Given the circumstances of the incident, I think its more likely than not that Ms M wasnt
required to provide bedding at the AA. So I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect
somebody to return to live in a home without bedding for a period of a month. I think its
reasonable to expect to have bedding in order for a place to be habitable. So as things
stand, I think a fair outcome is for Ageas to meet the full costs of the AA Ms M paid for until
her contents were returned to her on 21 May 2021.
In response to my provisional findings, Ageas referred me to an email dated 10 September 
2021. It says this shows Ms M requested the return of her items on this date. Ageas 
maintains that the remaining items not being available didnt make Ms Ms home 
uninhabitable. I dont see how this changes what Ageas told us before I issued my provisional decision: that 
Ms M asked for her contents to be returned to her on 23 April 2021 - but the key items 
mentioned werent returned to her until a month later. So I havent seen anything to 
persuade me to change my provisional findings. 
I understand Ms M is unhappy with conflicting information she received from Ageas. Overall I
think its handling of the claim  outside of its handling of the AA settlement - was fair.
Taking everything into account - my final decision remains along the same lines as my 
provisional decision. Ive set out below what Ageas needs to do to put things right if Ms M 
accepts. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to meet 
the full costs Ms M paid for alternative accommodation which she has provided receipts of 
payment for until the date she moved back into her home in May 2021.
Ageas should pay interest on the sum at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date
Ms M paid to the date it reimburses her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman