DRN-4057509
The complaint
Ms M complains Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) settled a claim without and 
this has led to an increase in her insurance premium. 
What happened
Ms M was involved in a minor collision in June 2020 which she reported to her insurer. 
Ms M says there were no witnesses to the incident and so the claim was likely to be found 
at fault. Ms M told Skyfire that if the third party made a claim she would like to know the 
cost so she could see if she could pay the claim herself to avoid losing her no claims 
discount (NCD). 
Ms M says Skyfire agreed to keep her updated on any claim. Ms M says she contacted 
Skyfire again and was told the third party had made a claim for personal injury. Ms M says 
there was no force or momentum during the incident and the third party were likely making a 
claim for financial gain. She says Skyfire agreed with her. 
Ms M says she didnt hear anything further until January 2022 when Skyfire told her it hadnt 
heard anything from the third-party since the repudiation of the claim. Ms M says following 
this she thought the claim was closed. 
In June 2022 she contacted Skyfire to obtain her NCD. She says she was told the claim had 
closed and her NCD hadnt been affected but when she received the proof it said NCD was 
zero. Ms M contacted Skyfire and the agent again told her the claim had closed and the 
NCD was unaffected. But again when she received the proof it said zero NCD. 
Ms M says she called again and this time the agent told her there was a payment made in 
respect of the 2020 claim and it was recorded as a fault claim. 
Ms M is unhappy Skyfire settled the claim without telling her. She says she told Skyfire she 
wanted to pay the claim herself but wasnt able to as it settled the claim without her 
knowledge. Ms M says when she realised the claim had been settled she had to notify her 
new insurer and pay a further premium. She also lost her NCD. 
Ms M wants Skyfire to reinstate her no claims discount once it recovers its full cost. She 
says Skyfire have put her at risk of insurance cancellation, as well as an increase in her 
premium due to losing her NCD. 
Ms M complained to Skyfire. She said she told her insurer that she had full NCD and so she 
is at risk of her insurance being cancelled or voided. She wants Skyfire to reinstate the NCD. 
Skyfire said it was unable to allow Ms Ms NCD without recovering its costs and there is no 
alternative to this. It said Ms Ms premium increased since she was held liable for the 
incident and the claim was settled as a fault claim. Skyfire said it was unable to change this. 
It did say Ms M could reimburse the third-party costs of £1154.63 in order to reinstate her 
NCD. By way of an apology for not contacting her regarding settlement Skyfire paid Ms M 
£150. 
Ms M wasnt satisfied with the response from Skyfire so referred her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for her. She said she thought the offer of 
compensation was fair for the service issues Ms M experienced, and she thought Skyfire 
had offered a fair resolution to the issues with the NCD. 
Ms M didnt agree. She said Skyfire wrote to her to say the case was closed since it hadnt 
heard from the third party, and when she called she was told her NCD was unaffected. So 
she wasnt aware of it until she requested a copy. She says she could have had her 
insurance voided or cancelled. Because Ms M didnt agree the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it. I know this will be disappointing for Ms M so I have 
explained my reasons below. 
My role here is to look at whether Skyfire acted in a fair and reasonable manner and within 
the terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the claim. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Claim settlement 
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of Ms Ms policy. It says the following; 
Your insurer is entitled to: 
Defend or settle any claim on your behalf; 
Take legal action over any claim in your name or the name of any person insured on 
the policy for their own benefit;
Admit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf; 
Share information with others involved with the accident or claim; and 
Take from the claim settlement amount any amount you owe under the related credit 
agreement (if this applies) 
Ms M confirmed there were no witnesses to the incident and so it was likely to be a fault 
claim. So Skyfire has acted within the terms of the policy since it was entitled to settle the 
claim on Ms Ms behalf. 
Effect on future insurance cost and no claims discount
Since Skyfire were unable to recover its costs it is not able to reinstate the NCD. The terms 
of the policy say, if we make a full recovery of the claim costsyour no claim discount will 
be reinstated, so Skyfire has acted within the terms of the policy. 
In Skyfires letter dated 23 September 2022 Skyfire confirm that until its costs are recovered 
the claim will show as a fault incident to other insurers. It explained Ms M would be able to 
reimburse the third-party costs in order for the NCD to be reinstated. At the time of taking out her new policy Ms M wasnt aware the incident reported to her 
previous insurer had been settled. She didnt disclose the incident to the new insurer and so 
she was shocked when she found out her premium would rise because of the incident. But 
since Skyfire had been unable to recover its costs the incident was fairly recorded as a fault 
claim. 
So whilst I understand Ms M is upset by this its standard practice by insurers and I dont 
think Skyfire has done anything wrong here. 
Ms M says her insurance could have been cancelled or voided had her current insurer been 
aware of her actual NCD. Whilst there was a risk of this Im pleased to see it didnt actually 
happen. 
Ms M says she wanted the opportunity to discuss settlement of the claim prior to it being 
settled. But Skyfire didnt do this and settled the claim without her knowledge. Having 
reviewed all of the documentation its clear to me an award was due for the distress this 
whole episode caused Ms M. I can see there was confusion over the information provided to 
Ms M by the agents on the phone regarding her NCD. I can see Ms M has been frustrated at 
having to chase Skyfire for updates and information. I think this was unfortunate but Im 
pleased Skyfire recognised it could have provided a more proactive and transparent process 
and paid £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this is a fair 
award for the level of upset caused. 
I know Ms M wants her NCD to be reinstated but this wont happen while the claim is 
recorded as a fault claim and Skyfire isnt able to recover its costs. Skyfire has provided Ms 
M with the cost of reimbursing the cost of the claim so she is able to pay that if she wants to 
reinstate the NCD. I am unable to compel Skyfire to reinstate the NCD at no further costs to 
Ms M since it hasnt done anything wrong in settling the claim. It is entitled to do this under 
the terms of the policy.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Ms M but overall I think Skyfire has acted within 
the terms and conditions of the policy. Where it as accepted a failure in service the 
compensation paid fairly reflects the distress caused to Ms M so I wont be asking Skyfire to 
do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman