DRN-4084558
The complaint
G complains about being asked for a new signature on a business account with Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds).
What happened 
G is a partnership, the partners being Mr A and his wife, Mrs A. Both sign on the partnership 
account. There are two other personal joint accounts  which are not the subject of this 
complaint. Mr A has brought the complaint and so I will refer to him as the complainant here.
There was a problem when G tried to set up a new direct debit for fuel payments. This 
showed that Mr As signature wasnt held in a format they needed in their system. They 
contacted G to ask Mr A for a new signature.
Mr A complained on behalf of G. He said he and his wife had banked with Lloyds since 1980 
and his signature hadnt changed, so didnt want to provide new signatures. He couldnt 
understand why this was needed, nor could he understand Lloyds explanation. He didnt 
see why Lloyds chose to treat his questions as a complaint. He said the call with Lloyds 
complaint handler should be listened to.
Lloyds said there was no commercial mandate for G in their records. They needed to update 
Mr As signature  as the last one was provided over 20 years ago. They also said a 
signature is held for the business but not for any individuals on the account. They asked Mr 
A to compete a new mandate form. But they agreed that their service hadnt been up to 
expectations and sent a cheque for £75.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he didnt cash the cheque and brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator said Lloyds were entitled to update their records if they wished. Lloyds only hold 
a signature for the business account itself, not for any individuals on the account  which is 
why they need a mandate form completing. He said Lloyds could ask for a new signature  
and this was a process we cant challenge. He agreed that the call with Lloyds call handler 
couldve been clearer and agreed that compensation of £75 was fair.
Mr A didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked more questions of Lloyds as I (like Mr A) couldnt understand why Lloyds needed his 
signature. I can see that they held his signature in their records. Lloyds said they only hold a 
signature for the business account itself, not for any individuals on the account  which is 
why they needed a mandate form completing. I can appreciate why Mr A considered this to 
be confusing  as it suggests they do hold Mr As signature.
I listened to the call which took place on 31 January 2023 with Lloyds call handler. While he 
was professional and respectful of Mr A, he also wasnt clear why a new signature was 
needed  he also said Lloyds have a signature for the business account (but) the way we 
store signatures has changed. Mr A made the point that he had operated accounts - this 
business account, and two other personal accounts, since 1980  so why was this needed. 
Lloyds call handler couldnt advise Mr A clearly why a new signature was needed, nor could 
he say if Mr A could continue to operate the bank account  and write cheques.
So  I can see why Mr A was confused and concerned. If Lloyds couldve clearly told him 
why a new signature was needed, I think its unlikely a complaint wouldve been made. But - 
they didnt.
So we asked for clarification from Lloyds. And they told us that while they do hold one 
signature in their records, it isnt recorded against one of the partners names  so that 
needs putting right. And they dont hold a signature for the other partner. So  they would 
like new signatures from both partners in the way theyve asked. And I did note from the call 
between Lloyds and Mr A  that he confirmed that his wife, as the other partner, was to be a 
signatory.
Its reasonable for a firm like Lloyds to update their customer records from time to time  for 
whatever reason. Its fair to say that customers signatures may change from time to time  
and Lloyds told us that Mr A had last given a signature in 2001.  So it is understandable that 
Lloyds would want a new signature from time to time. 
Therefore, my decision is that its reasonable for Lloyds to ask for new signatures in the 
format theyve requested. However, because Lloyds explanation for the request wasnt 
clearly explained, I agree that compensation of £75 should be paid. Lloyds have sent Mr A a 
cheque for this amount, which hasnt been cashed. I suggest Lloyds cancel that cheque and 
deal with the payment in the normal way.
My final decision
Lloyds has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman