DRN-1931941
Complaint
Ms M and Mr T have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
increased the cost of their pet insurance policy. 
The policy was taken out in Ms Ms name and so Ill only be referring to her in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Ms M took out, will continue to cover any
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. Providing 
this level of cover is expensive so the yearly cost of these type of policies can go up 
significantly at renewal, particularly if claims are made. And there is no limit to how much the 
premium could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Ms M. It has accepted 
the information it gave Ms M about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has now offered to pay her £350 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been 
caused as a result of this. 
Ms M hasnt accepted the offer and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of Ms Ms 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover it provides. I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Ms policy is too high, she should have 
been charged less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the future.
While Ms Ms premium has seen a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a lower premium going forwards.
I understand Ms M will be disappointed with this as this was the outcome she had hoped for. 
I recognise that the situation has caused her upset and shes had to cancel the policy as it 
became unaffordable. I understand Ms Ms dog has since required expensive treatment that 
has had to be self funded. 
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Ms M the information she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone 
wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Ms M chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of cover for her pet. And, 
as she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some interest in the greater level 
of cover it provided. If Ms M hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover 
at all, and would have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced level of 
cover, where she would still have found herself in a situation where her pets conditions were 
no longer covered. So I think its likely she would still have gone ahead with the lifetime 
policy, even if shed known the premium could increase significantly in the future. 
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Ms M wasnt so 
surprised and upset when the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been 
something she was expecting to happen. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises that better information about the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided some of the trouble and upset Ms M has experienced. 
And I think it fairly compensates Ms M.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer to pay Ms M £350 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay £350. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman