DRN-3868375
The complaint
Mr K has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) acted in a 
discriminatory way by asking him to provide ID when making a cash withdrawal from branch.
What happened
Mr K attended a branch to withdraw £2,000 in cash. He was asked by the cashier to produce 
ID but challenged that because he said that white friends of his were not asked for ID when 
withdrawing cash. He therefore felt that he was being discriminated against because of the 
colour of his skin. He says that a staff member was then rude to him and tried to prevent him 
from making a complaint.
Nat West didnt uphold the main part of Mr Ks complaint. But with regard to how the staff 
member spoke to him, it accepted that the service Mr K received fell short of what it hoped to 
provide. So it offered him £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator concluded that Nat West had acted in accordance with its standard 
guidance in asking Mr K for ID. He also thought that Nat Wests offer of compensation was 
fair and reasonable. Mr K disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nat West has provided us with a copy of its internal process document relating to cash 
withdrawals. Im sure Mr K will understand that this information cant be more widely shared. 
Having looked at it, Im satisfied that for a withdrawal of £2,000, a secondary authorisation 
process of requiring ID is triggered. As asking for ID is a stated part of Nat Wests routine 
process for withdrawals of that amount, Im unable to conclude that Mr K was treated 
differently than any other customer wanting to withdraw the same amount. There was no 
opportunity for the cashier to exercise discretion in these particular circumstances.
Mr K says that the staff member was intimidating, rude and tried to prevent him from 
submitting a complaint. I understand Mr K also feels that this treatment was due to the colour 
of his skin and that he wouldnt have been spoken to like that if he was white. Ive thought 
very carefully about what Mr K has said and I can assure him that no-one is belittling what 
he has told us about his experience. But, overall, I dont have enough evidence to be able to 
conclude that he was treated differently.
As Nat West upheld this part of the complaint about poor service, there is no need for me to 
consider it much further. The issue for me is whether Nat Wests response was fair and 
reasonable. Mr K would like Nat West to make a declaration that it will never happen again. 
He feels that we should take a punitive stance to prevent such behaviours from happening.
Our role in investigating complaints is not to punish the bank. Rather it is to decide whether 
something went wrong and if it did, what needs to be done to put things right for that 
consumer. In this case Nat West has apologised to Mr K. It has also provided feedback to try 
and prevent the issue from occurring again in future. I consider that response, plus the offer 
of £100 compensation, to be a reasonable and proportionate resolution for the errors that 
occurred, So I wont be asking Nat West to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint. However, National 
Westminster Bank Plc should pay him the £100 compensation now if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman