DRN-2981592
The complaint
This is a complaint that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined to pay Mr Ms travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr M had multi-trip travel insurance, which came as a benefit of his bank account but was 
underwritten by UKI. 
Mr M had booked a holiday letting in the UK, for a holiday which was due to take place from 
28 March to 3 April 2020. On 18 March, the booking agent cancelled the booking, and so 
Mr M rented a different property. The cost of the rental wasnt refundable if Mr M cancelled. 
On 23 March 2020, the UK government banned all travel outside the local area, within the 
UK. This was because of the Covid pandemic.
This meant Mr M couldnt take his holiday. He wasnt able to get a refund from the 
accommodation provider and so he made a claim on his travel insurance. 
UKI declined to pay the claim, saying that the inability to take the holiday was an anticipated 
event and so excluded under the insurance policy. 
Our investigator looked at the insurance policy, and the circumstances of the claim, and 
thought that UKIs decision was reasonable. Mr M disagreed. 
Because there is no agreement, the matter has been come to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive taken these rules and 
guidelines into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. Ive also looked carefully at what Mr Ms policy says it 
covers. 
The policy would usually cover a claim like this, unless an exclusion applies. The relevant 
one here is:
We will not cover
 an anticipated event
Anticipated event is defined in the policy as:
any event or occurrence which you or your immediate family knew would occur or 
could reasonably have expected to occur during your trip and which you or your 
immediate family were aware of at the time you became an insured person or the 
date when you booked your trip, whichever is later.
At the time Mr M made his booking, events were changing rapidly, and this was being widely 
reported in the media. Covid had been declared a pandemic on 11 March and around that 
time, or soon after, various European countries started to lockdown.  On 17 March, France 
locked down, and also on that day the British government advised against all but essential 
foreign travel. And, on the 16 March, the British government had advised that, within the UK, 
people avoid social contact and travel. In a widely-reported speech the Prime Minister said, 
on 16 March:
Last week we asked everyone to stay at home if you had one of two key symptoms
Today, we need to go further, because according to SAGE it looks as though were 
now approaching the fast growth part of the upward curve.
And without drastic action, cases could double every 5 or 6 days.
 now is the time for everyone to stop non-essential contact with others and to stop 
all unnecessary travel.
We need people to start working from home where they possibly can. And you 
should avoid pubs, clubs, theatres and other such social venues.
[Source: www.gov.uk]
I think its reasonable for UKI to say the cancellation of the holiday could reasonably have 
[been] expected to occur. I think it is fair for UKI to conclude that Mr M could reasonably 
have expected there would be continued disruption to travel and that there was the potential 
for further restrictions on movement to come into force in the UK in the weeks ahead 
(including between the 18 March and 28 March when the holiday was due to start). In 
reaching that conclusion I bear in mind the circumstances Ive outlined above, including the 
restrictions that had been already introduced in other parts of the world. 
Mr M booked his holiday on 18 March, in the midst of a rapidly worsening national and 
international health emergency, and after a global pandemic had been declared. He also 
booked at a time when there was ongoing changes to domestic and international guidance in 
relation to travel, linked to the pandemic. It was a confusing and worrying time, and I can 
understand why Mr M would have wanted to try and secure his holiday. But I think its 
reasonable for UKI to decline the claim in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Timothy BaileyOmbudsman