DRN-2916376
The complaint
Mr K complains that Cofunds Limited (which is part of the Aegon UK Group of companies) 
sold some shares in his Individual Savings Account (ISA) without his instruction to do so.
What happened
In February 2020 Cofunds wrote to Mr K saying that because he was considered a United 
States (US) person he couldnt continue to hold any investment other than cash in his ISA. 
Cofunds said they needed Mr K to sell the shares or move them from the platform. They said 
if no instruction was given to Cofunds within three months of the letter they would sell the 
shares.
 
Mr K was unhappy with this as the stock market had fallen substantially and he felt it 
inappropriate to sell the shares at that time. Mr K wrote to Cofunds asking that no action be 
taken at that time in the hope the market would pick up in the next few months.
In May 2020 Cofunds wrote to Mr K saying that the deadline to provide instructions had been 
extended until mid-August 2020. Mr K again wrote to Cofunds saying he wasnt prepared to 
sell his shares at that time and he would liquidate his investments in due course.
Cofunds wrote to Mr K in late August 2020 confirming that the shares had been sold. Mr K 
complained saying he had suffered a loss due to the sale. Cofunds said they applied the 
terms and conditions of the account and sold the shares as they had not received any 
instructions. 
Remaining unhappy Mr K brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought Cofunds explained clearly that the 
shares had to be sold by the deadline so they hadnt acted unfairly. Mr K disagreed saying 
Cofunds shouldve provided a longer time scale for action, so the complaint has come to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has provided a lot of information about his complaint and I want to assure him that Ive 
read and considered everything hes submitted even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive 
summarised what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
To come to a decision about whether Cofunds acted correctly Ive first considered the terms 
and conditions of the platform; specifically section 3.2 which refers to residency and says: 
We may need to terminate your product, or take other similar action, without notice to you 
under condition 11.4, if you no longer reside in the UK or you become a US Person or citizen 
of another country.
I can understand why Mr K is unhappy with this, especially because he had been a US 
Person for some time and no action had been taken previously. Cofunds say the change 
came about due to increasing divergence in laws which meant they had to take action.
Mr Ks account was transferred to Cofunds from a previous provider and I know he says he 
didnt agree to these new terms and conditions. But providers do change from time to time 
which sometimes might mean a change in the terms and conditions. Also I think its 
important to note that this kind of term isnt unusual for providers like Cofunds.
Having considered the terms and conditions Im satisfied that because Mr K is a US Person 
Cofunds were able to act in the way they did and dispose of his investments. But just 
following terms and conditions isnt always enough. So Ive gone on to consider whether 
Cofunds acted fairly and reasonably in their actions.
Cofunds wrote to Mr K in February 2020 giving a three month time frame for him to sell the 
shares or move them to another platform. I can understand why Mr K didnt want to sell the 
shares at that time but three months seems like a reasonable time frame to take action. I 
think this is especially the case as the terms and conditions wouldve allowed Cofunds to 
take action without any reference to Mr K. Though I dont think it wouldve been fair of them 
to do, so Im glad to see time was given for Mr K to consider his options.
Cofunds agreed an extension until August 2020  some six months since the original letter. 
Again, I recognise why Mr K didnt want to sell his shares, however I think Cofunds acted 
fairly and reasonably by giving a six month window - which is quite some time even 
considering the pandemic situation - for him to take action. They also made clear what would 
happen if no action was taken or they didnt receive any instructions in that time. Within that 
six months Mr K couldve chosen to sell his shares or transfer them to another provider 
which did accept US Persons.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Cofunds acted fairly and 
reasonably when applying the platform terms and conditions and selling Mr Ks shares. 
Thats not to say that Mr K hasnt been inconvenienced by what happened, or that he may 
have suffered a financial loss; I think he has. However Cofunds gave fair notice of what was 
happening with a period of around six months from the initial letter until the shares were 
sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman