DRN-3820833
The complaint
Ms P complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading 
as NFU Mutual (NFU) unfairly increased the premium on her car insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2022, NFU sent Ms P a renewal letter for her car insurance policy. The renewal quote 
was based on Ms P driving no more than 7,000 miles per year and she was quoted £482.44 
for this cover. 
Ms P asked for the annual mileage to be increased from 7,000 to 10,000. As a consequence 
of the increase in mileage, NFU increased the annual premium quote to £545.35.
Ms P feels that the increase in premium is excessive for the number of miles she has 
increased the policy to. And she is unhappy that NFU havent been able to tell her 
specifically why her premium has increased.
NFU responded to Ms Ps complaint and explained that it took into account the increase in 
mileage when calculating the premium. It said that it didnt think it had calculated Ms Ps 
premium incorrectly and so it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Our Investigator looked into things for Ms P and they didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that it is up to insurers to price a policy, and generally this service wouldnt 
interfere with that as long as it was treating its customers fairly. The Investigator explained 
that they had seen commercially sensitive data about how Ms Ps premiums had been 
calculated, and as a result, they didnt think that NFU had done anything wrong.
Ms P didnt agree. She felt that the data NFU had relied on wasnt sensitive and should be 
shared with her because it relates to her policy. Ms P also asked for an Ombudsman to 
decide on the matter and so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information available to me, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps 
complaint.
Insurers will take into account many different factors when deciding how to price a policy 
premiums normally take into account the different level of risk that the insured might pose. 
Each insurer will have a different approach to how it assesses risk and they will usually take 
into account how likely they think it is that the policyholder will make a claim.
It isnt the role of this service to tell an Insurer, like NFU, what risk factors they should be 
assessing when calculating a premium  it also isnt the role of this service to tell an insurer 
how much premium should be attached to those risks. Generally, we take the view that an 
insurer can determine what premium it charges in order to cover the risk. And as long as the 
insurer is treating its customers fairly, we wouldnt normally find that there is anything wrong 
with this. 
So, in this case, I cant make a finding that NFU has charged Ms P too much premium  or 
that the increase in premium is unproportionally high in comparison to the changes she 
made to the policy. But I can look to see if NFU treated Ms P in the same way it would its 
other customers in similar circumstances. And from what Ive seen, I think it has.
NFU has provided this service with evidence to show how it calculated Ms Ps premium. I 
can see that the premium it has charged has taken into account the increase in mileage 
allowance. The information Ive seen satisfies me that it would have applied an increase to 
other customers in similar situations. So, I dont find that Ms P has been treated unfairly 
here.
The information NFU has given me is commercially sensitive, so I cant share this with Ms P. 
I know this will be frustrating for Ms P, and complete transparency would be better. But all 
insurers price differently, and it wouldnt be right that information sensitive to how this is 
done is shared. I have taken on board Ms Ps comments that the data relates to her so 
should be shared. But the information Ive relied on here doesnt contain any of Ms Ps 
personal information  it is information about how the premiums have been calculated. 
However, I hope my independent review of this information can provide satisfactory 
assurance to Ms P that she hasnt been treated unfairly when her premiums were increased.
I can see from the renewal notices NFU sent to Ms P that it was clear Ms P had the right to 
shop around  and that she might be able to get a cheaper quote elsewhere. Im satisfied 
that Ms P ought to have been aware that she could go to a different insurer if she was 
unhappy with the amount NFU wanted to charge her for the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman