DRN-3740464
The complaint
Mr M, who has power of attorney for Mrs M, complains HSBC Bank UK Plc didnt follow his 
instructions and then wouldnt allow him access to Mrs Ms bank account, which meant he 
had difficulties paying for her care.
What happened
Mr M has had lasting power of attorney for Mrs M since 2016. 
In April 2021 Mr M asked HSBC to close Mrs Ms savings account and transfer the funds to 
an account in his name, with another bank. HSBC closed the account but transferred the 
money to Mrs Ms current account. 
Mr M complained to HSBC about the difficulties hed had in closing the account and the 
responses hed received when hed made the request. He was also unhappy HSBC hadnt 
followed his instruction to transfer the funds to the account with the other bank.
HSBC apologised for the service Mr M had received and offered him £70 compensation. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr M wrote to the UK Chief Executive of HSBC. He 
received a call and a written response from HSBC, endorsing the response given previously.
Following the conversation with Mr M, HSBC suspended his access to the account, and it 
raised concerns it had about Mr Ms actions with the Office of the Public Guardian. Access to 
the account remained suspended until the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG) finished its 
investigation  over four months later. The OPG said that while the circumstances werent 
ideal, it hadnt found any evidence that Mr Ms decisions about Mrs Ms financial affairs 
hadnt been made in her best interests.
Mr M has complained about the difficulties he experienced while his access to the account 
was blocked. He says it meant he was unable to pay for Mrs Ms needs, beyond the cost of 
the care home. Hes also explained that this all happened at a time when he was preparing 
for the transition from Mrs M self-funding the costs of the care home to it being paid for by 
the local authority. To do this he needed access to the account to make sure the funding 
was in place in a timely manner. He had asked for statements to be sent to him, but these 
were instead sent to Mrs M at the care home.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong as HSBC did what it did to 
protect Mrs M from possible harm. He explained that we can only look at the impact anything 
HSBC did wrong on Mrs M, and not Mr M has he isnt the eligible complainant in this case.
Mr M didnt agree. In summary, he said:
He appreciates HSBC has a duty to protect its customers, but its actions were 
punitive and far exceeded this requirement.
He doesnt accept that HSBCs decisions to repeatedly deny him access to Mrs Ms 
account, to transfer funds to another account without instruction, to suspend access 
to the current account without notice and suspend access to online services were in 
Mrs Ms best interest.
HSBC shouldnt have sent Mrs M correspondence directly as she would be unable to 
read or understand it herself.
HSBC doesnt have the expertise to adequately understand Mrs Ms needs, so it was 
not qualified to approve any invoices on behalf of Mrs M while the account was 
suspended.
Not a single one of HSBCs allegations was upheld by the OPG.
The suspension of the account caused substantial delays in submitting the financial 
records required by the local authority for the future funding of the care home. This 
has caused avoidable distress for Mrs M.
In Mrs Ms circumstances, she cant be considered to be the sole customer in this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go on to consider whether HSBC has done anything wrong, I think it would be 
helpful for me to explain our position when it comes to awarding compensation in situations 
where a complaint is brought to us by an individual with lasting power of attorney. I can only 
award compensation to an eligible complainant, as defined in Dispute Resolution rule 2.7 
which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. When deciding 
whether to award compensation, I can only consider the impact any mistakes have had on 
that eligible complainant. 
In this case, Mrs M, as the account holder, is the eligible complainant. While Mr M is 
authorised in law to represent her, he is not an eligible complainant in his own right  it is not 
his bank account. So if I find HSBC has done something wrong, I will need to consider what 
impact this has had on Mrs M and not Mr M. I appreciate Mr M doesnt agree with this, and 
he doesnt think its right in the circumstances, but Im afraid I dont have the power to tell 
HSBC to compensate him. HSBC is free to make an award to Mr M  like it did when he 
previously complained in 2016 and as it did when it offered him £70 for this complaint.
 
Savings account closure and transfer
HSBC has accepted it didnt provide an acceptable level of service when Mr M made the 
request to close the savings account. From what Ive seen the responses given when Mr M 
made the request werent appropriate or logical  HSBC knew Mr M had power of attorney. 
And it didnt follow his request to transfer the funds to the account with the other bank, 
instead transferring them to Mrs Ms current account. 
The account was ultimately closed three days after Mr Ms original request. He was then 
able to transfer the money from Mrs Ms current account to the other account a couple of 
days later. I understand how frustrating this would have been for Mr M, particularly given his 
previous experience with HSBC. He was also inconvenienced by needing to transfer the 
money himself. But I dont think this is likely to have had any impact on Mrs M. The money 
was in the account Mr M wanted it to be in five days after he first made the request. And 
from what hes said, the reason for transferring the funds wasnt to meet any immediate or 
urgent need of Mrs M. 
HSBC has already made an offer to pay Mr M £70 to say sorry for the errors it made. Mr M 
should contact HSBC directly if he now wishes to accept this.Suspension of access to the current account and referral to the OPG
HSBC has a duty of care to Mrs M. While Mr M has power of attorney which allows him to 
act on Mrs Ms behalf, he needs to do so in her best interests and there are certain 
requirements he needs to follow when carrying out his duties as an attorney. If HSBC 
thought Mr M might not be acting in Mrs Ms best interests, then it would be failing in its duty 
of care to ignore this.
I appreciate that following its investigation the OPG found Mr M was acting in Mrs Ms best 
interests, but it did also note that the circumstances are not ideal and holding Mrs Ms 
funds in an account in Mr Ms name was unusual. Given this, it seems there was some 
basis for HSBCs concerns as the actions Mr M was taking werent what would usually be 
expected for someone with power of attorney. And while I understand the situations when 
Mr M spoke to HSBC werent ideal  he was unwell at the time  the explanations he gave 
about his plans for Mrs Ms funds didnt give HSBC the reassurance it needed to allay its 
concerns.
Where there are concerns a power of attorney might not be acting in the donors best 
interest, the OPG is the appropriate agency to look into this. From everything Ive seen, I 
think it was reasonable for HSBC to have concerns about Mr Ms actions, that at least 
warranted some investigation by the appropriate agency. As such the referral to the OPG 
was a suitable course of action. 
It follows, from what Ive already said, that HSBCs actions in suspending Mr Ms access to 
the current account were reasonable. It wouldnt have been responsible for it to allow Mr M 
to continue to access the account if it had concerns he wasnt acting in Mrs Ms best 
interests. However, I do think HSBC should have told Mr M what it had done, rather than 
allowing him to find out for himself. This will have caused additional frustration and upset in 
what was already going to be a difficult time. And HSBC didnt restore Mr Ms access to the 
account promptly when the OPG had completed its investigation, which would have 
compounded matters.
HSBC did take steps to make sure its actions didnt impact Mrs M. The monthly direct debit 
payment to the care home continued to be made. And it agreed to make the payments 
necessary for Mrs Ms day-to-day costs if Mr M (or the care home) provided it with the 
details. While Mr M thinks HSBC was not qualified to do this  he says HSBC isnt in a 
position to decide what payments are necessary for Mrs Ms care  I think it was reasonable. 
HSBC wanted to make sure any funds coming out of the account were for Mrs Ms benefit. I 
dont think it was suggesting it would be making any judgement calls beyond this. It was 
Mr Ms choice not to take HSBC up on this offer.
I realise all of this happened at a critical time as Mr M wanted to keep track of the balance on 
the account, so he could make a timely application to the local authority to take over the 
payments for the care home. And HSBCs actions in sending statements to Mrs M, who it 
knew didnt have the capacity to understand them, were unhelpful. But from what Mr M has 
told us, the funding is still not in place, over a year after his access to the account was 
restored. 
So while I accept the four months when Mr M was unable to access the account might have 
delayed this somewhat, I think its likely there would have been issues even if this hadnt 
happened. I also have to take into account that HSBC promptly responded to all requests for 
information from the OPG and it isnt responsible for the length of time the OPG investigation 
took to complete. In summary, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong by suspending Mr Ms access to the 
account or referring its concerns to the OPG. But there were things it could have done better 
to avoid making the situation worse. However, while I fully accept these will have caused 
Mr M distress and inconvenience, I think its unlikely they will have had any impact on Mrs M, 
who will for the most part have been shielded from any detriment.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
Mrs M, to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman