DRN-3158746
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on their 
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice  to invest in a Unit Linked 
endowment plan (the plan)  by Phoenix Life Limited.  
In summary, the CMC said:
Theres insufficient paperwork to justify the sale. 
Mr and Mrs C have probably suffered a loss as a result of the advice received. 
What happened
In March 1984, Mr and Mrs C began investing in the plan after meeting up with an agent of 
Phoenix. Based on what the CMC says it seems the plan was for a term of 25 years, with an 
initial monthly premium of around £37 but subject to increase. 
According to the CMC the last premium was paid in May 1985, and in June 1985 the policy 
lapsed without accumulating any surrender value.  
In October 2021, the CMC complained on behalf of Mr and Mrs C. 
Initially, Phoenix objected to jurisdiction, before changing its mind in light of arguments put 
forward by the investigator and giving our service consent to consider the merits of this 
complaint.  
Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said there was no paperwork available 
as the plan was sold over 37 years ago, before the introduction of the Financial Services Act 
(FSA) 1986.     
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Without the relevant paperwork hes unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs C were 
given unsuitable investment advice. 
With regards to COBS 9.5.2 he cant say that Phoenix has done anything wrong by 
not being able to provide the point of sale documentation from 1984.  
In the absence of any point of sale documentation, he has no information relating to 
the following: 
oMr and Mrs Cs income, outgoings, assets, or liabilities. 
oTheir existing savings and investments.
oTheir planned expenditure. 
oWhat the recommendation was and why. 
In the absence of any evidence about what was said and why, he cant safely 
conclude that the advice was unsuitable.
In other words, he doesnt have the evidence to recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary it said:
The sale was pre-regulation. The adviser had to ensure that the following basic 
principles applied at the time: 
oTo advise with reasonable care and skill.
oTo disclose material information. 
oNot to make any negligent or misleading statements. 
Although theres little to go by, it knows that Mr and Mrs C were:
oFirst-time buyers with no investment experience. 
oThey were advised to take out a risky plan.
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said hed been in touch with the business but simply didnt have enough to 
say that the recommendation was unsuitable. Despite what the CMC says about its 
experience with similar plans theres simply no evidence in this instance to uphold the 
complaint. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same
reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to
safely say that the recommendation was inappropriate for Mr and Mrs C.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and Phoenix and reach what I
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. As a
fresh pair of eyes looking at the complaint, its for me to decide, based on the information
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
The CMC will be aware that ombudsmen are not bound by the decisions of other
ombudsmen or adjudicators. Every case is considered on its own merits and no two cases
are exactly the same. Even the tiniest factual difference can make a difference in outcome.
Because Mr and Mrs C took out the plan in 1984, before the FSA1986 came into force in 
1988, there were different requirements when giving advice  arguably there was less 
protection. 
The common law duty to act with reasonable skill and care when making a recommendation 
applied, rather than the suitability requirement which applied afterwards. In other words, any
recommendation had to be appropriate for the consumers circumstances (i.e. a
reasonable fit). And I have to consider this complaint in this context.
I note Phoenix wasnt required to complete a fact find document (or a suitable
alternative to know your customer), record Mr and Mrs Cs personal and financial 
circumstances or issue a suitability letter, detailing why the recommendation was made. Its 
possible that one was completed but I havent seen it. 
Nevertheless, Im aware that businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely, so Icant blame Phoenix for not being able to provide more information about the sale of the
plan. In other words, just because the business cant provide more information about the
sale of a plan that took place almost 40 years ago doesnt mean it has done anything wrong. 
Im aware it checked its archived records twice and found nothing. 
In the circumstances for example there isnt a record of alternative products being
discussed, but that doesnt mean that they werent. Like the investigator I dont find that I can
safely conclude that the recommendation wasnt appropriate at the time based on the limited
available information.
If Mr and Mrs C were advised to take out the plan, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that 
they didnt at the time want to invest in the plan and take the requisite risk. Also, Ive no 
evidence about their objectives/needs in order to decide whether or not these were met. So, 
in this instance Im unable to safely say that the plan was inappropriate. 
 
I note the plan lapsed after one year, but that isnt of itself evidence of the plan being 
inappropriate. Ive no persuasive evidence about why Mr and Mrs C stopped paying into the 
plan. For example, if they stopped paying the premiums because the plan was unaffordable 
or because they thought the term was too long. If they did, I think they knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known they had cause for complaint at the time.   
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give Mr and Mrs C what they want.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman