DRN-2955708
The complaint
A charity Ill refer to as L has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr J, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf.  
What happened
L held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It claimed on its policy after closing 
as a result of the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. L also said 
that some of its volunteers had experienced symptoms of Covid-19.  
  
RSA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of an outbreak or 
occurrence of a notifiable disease at the premises, L had closed as a result of the 
Government Act in response to the national pandemic. As RSA thought L had closed in 
response to the national lockdown, rather than because someone at its premises had Covid-
19, RSA turned down its claim. 
  
L was unhappy with RSAs response and brought its complaint to our service. It said the 
policy required there to either be an outbreak of a disease or an occurrence at the premises. 
It didnt think the policy specified that there needed to be an outbreak at the premises and 
said if it did then the wording was misleading. L also said that while it was unable to provide 
a positive diagnosis of Covid-19, two of the volunteers who had been at the premises had 
flu-like symptoms in the run up to the lockdown. L also said that on the balance of 
probabilities, someone at its premises would have had Covid-19 given the rapid spread of 
the virus. 
  
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought the 
policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been an outbreak or occurrence 
at the premises. And he didnt think he was able to conclude that there had most likely been 
a case of Covid-19 at Ls premises.  
  
L asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the policy didnt specify that the outbreak 
needed to be at the premises and if it did then, as an outbreak was wider than an 
occurrence, there was no need for the policy to include the word occurrence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
L. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ls claim. 
The relevant extension in the policy says:
The word Damage is extended to include closure of the Premises or part thereof 
on the order or advice of any local or governmental authority as a result of an 
outbreak or occurrence at the Premises of
A) Any human contagious or infectious disease other than Acquired Immune     
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition, an outbreak of 
which is required by law or stipulated by the governmental authority to be 
notified
B) Food or drink poisoning
C) Vermin or pests
D) Defective sanitation
I understand that L thinks that this extension is triggered by either a wider outbreak of a 
disease or an occurrence at its premises. However, I dont think that the policy does mean 
this. I say that because when considering all of the points at A)-D) and not just A) it wouldnt 
make linguistic sense to say the premises were closed due to an outbreak of defective 
sanitation. I therefore think that the words outbreak or occurrence are used because some 
of the events at the premises would be considered an outbreak whereas others would be 
considered an occurrence. I dont think the wording of the extension is ambiguous and so I 
think that for the extension to provide cover there would need to be an outbreak or 
occurrence of a human contagious or infectious disease at Ls premises.
Covid-19 is a human contagious or infectious disease, so Ive then considered the 
information I have to decide if I think its more likely than not that there was a case of Covid-
19 at Ls premises. 
 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. To treat that as a minimum requirement would, in my view, be 
unfair.  
 
Therefore, its necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers.  
L has said that two of its volunteers had flu-like symptoms which it says was likely to have 
been Covid-19. However, I also have to bear in mind that many people at the time who were 
unwell didnt have Covid-19 so Ls testimony alone isnt enough to persuade me that there 
was a case of Covid-19 at Ls premises. L has also said that, on the balance of probabilities 
someone at its premises would most likely have had Covid-19. However, most people at that 
time didnt have Covid-19, so, that also isnt enough for me to conclude that it was most 
likely someone at Ls premises had Covid-19. For these reasons I dont think this extension 
provides cover for the circumstances of Ls claim.
I appreciate my decision isnt the outcome was Mr J hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Ls claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman