DRN-4226966
The complaint
Ms P complains about missing or damaged possessions following a claim under her home 
insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc.
AXA the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. The vast majority of this complaint concerns 
the actions of their appointed removal and storage agents. As AXA accept they are 
accountable for the actions of their agents, in my decision any reference to AXA should be 
interpreted as also covering the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms P and AXA and has been 
ongoing for some time. In my decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching 
the outcome that I have.
Ms Ps property unfortunately suffered fire damage. Ms P raised a claim against her 
insurance policy and many of her possessions were later moved into storage by AXA to 
allow repair works to take place.
When her possessions were returned, Ms P says various items were either damaged or 
missing. She raised a complaint with AXA about this. AXA didnt uphold the complaint and 
Ms P referred her complaint to our Service for an independent review. 
Our Investigator (most recently) didnt recommend that this complaint be upheld and as     
Ms P didnt accept his recommendations, the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How Ill consider the complaint 
Although a range of issues have been raised and extensive evidence provided by both 
parties, this decision only addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this 
complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either party  it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our Service. For example, both parties are already aware that these events have 
been going on for an extensive amount of time and Ive only summarised the key points of 
the background earlier in my decision. 
My decision is limited to only considering the complaint points referred to our Service about 
the missing or damaged items. This is important as Ms P has experienced a number of 
issues with her insurance claim across a number of years. Im sorry to hear of the impact 
that the fire and subsequent claim has had on Ms P and her family. 
I wont directly address each missing or damaged item. Instead, Ill be considering the 
service AXA has provided Ms P with whilst handling her claim and how theyve treated her 
overall. I have sympathy for Ms P and acknowledge what shes said about being in a difficult 
position because the items are missing and she has no physical proof. But this doesnt mean 
that the burden of proof transfers to AXA - unless I find that theyve acted unfairly here.  
The alleged missing and damaged items 
Ms P has argued (in summary) that AXAs agents didnt accurately record the items taken 
from her property in written and photographic records. She then realised sometime after her 
possessions had been returned that some were missing, damaged or in a poorer condition 
than when theyd been removed. Ms P has explained that it was due to ill health that she 
didnt realise sooner.
On the other hand, AXA have said that their agents did document what was taken and Ms P 
notified them of any issues far outside what was reasonable. 
When coming to my decision Ive kept in mind that things can and occasionally do go wrong 
in this type of removal situation. It may well be the case that because of human error and the 
sheer volume of items being moved, that some items werent photographed. But given the 
likely consequences for AXAs agents and that their reputation and standing within the 
industry would be irreparably damaged as well as future use by AXA should it be proven that 
they acted in bad faith, on balance, I find it more likely than not they acted in good faith here 
and if items werent photographed or recorded - it was because of human error rather than a 
deliberate attempt to deprive Ms P of her possessions. 
Im satisfied that when notified of the alleged damaged or missing items AXA took Ms Ps 
concerns very seriously and carried out a sufficient audit of all that had happened during the 
collection, storage and return. As an example:
As requested another extensive review has been carried out for this complaint. I 
would like to add that this has been reviewed by another colleague and a manager 
has also shared their thoughts so we can say for certain what we are advising is 
factual and fair. We have received around 750 photos from [company name redacted 
by Ombudsman] and every single photo has been examined by both myself and my 
other colleague. This was then cross referenced against the inventory and also 
times/dates of when it was reported.
I dont find any failing in this regard. 
Ive carefully considered what Ms P has said about feeling pressured to sign paperwork on 
the second day of the delivery. It may well be that the communication by AXAs agents 
wasnt as clear as it couldve been. For example, I note Ms P has said there was some 
confusion around what the actual purpose of the paperwork was. Of importance here is her 
daughters statement dated 30 June 2023. But Ive weighed this up against the extension 
given to the normal five day window in which a customer would be expected to notify AXA of 
any issues. 
Id reasonably have expected that if a further extension was needed, Ms P wouldve made 
contact with AXA to request this. But from what Ive seen, no further extension was 
requested from Ms P - so it seems reasonable to assume that 10 January was the cut off for 
notifying AXA of any issues. This is important as it underpins the decision Ive reached. This 
cut off isnt at all unusual across the industry as it limits a businesss liability. If there was no 
cut off, items that were returned in good order but became damaged months later could be 
claimed for. Another reason why a deadline is in place is so that any missing items can be searched for 
in a timely manner. The general revolving door nature of storage facilities and the volume of 
items arriving and leaving regularly means the sooner AXA were notified, the greater 
possibility that any missing items could be located again. 
Ms P didnt notify AXA about many of the missing/damaged items until over five weeks after 
theyd been delivered. Whilst I accept that Ms P has told us that her medical circumstances 
around that time meant she was unable to unbox and unpack the delivered items, I cant 
hold AXA responsible for this. 
I wont be commenting on the inventory, item by item. As outlined above, we are an 
alternative, informal dispute resolution Service. But Ill comment on some of the specific 
items below:
The mattress and base were marked as soiled before being collected. Ive not seen 
sufficiently persuasive evidence that they were returned in a worse condition. Again, 
given the time thats passed from delivery to notifying AXA of an issue, I cant fairly 
say AXA are responsible. 
Given the time that had passed, this is similar for the tv issues. 
The offer to replace the damaged mugs was fair and reasonable.
The damaged fridge magnets held sentimental rather than material financial value of 
for Ms P. I dont find it unreasonable that AXA suggested repairing them by gluing. 
For this reason, if theyd replaced them, the chain of sentimental value would be 
broken. 
The missing iPad was not listed on the inventory list. Ms P has said that because it 
hasnt connected to a Wi-Fi network since, she cant trace its location. Although I 
dont dispute that Ms P/her daughter owned the item, Ive not seen any supporting 
evidence to allow me to fairly conclude that AXA removed it from her property or are 
responsible for it becoming mislaid. 
Its important to re-state that ours is an evidence based organisation. The decision Ive 
arrived at is based on an on balance finding, having carefully considered all of the available 
evidence. This means, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence. This isnt to dismiss what the losing party has said as being wrong. It 
simply means that based on the available evidence I find the alternative explanation more 
persuasive than what Ms P has argued. This is also different to the test that a court of law 
would apply. 
My decision will disappoint Ms P, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve her dispute with AXA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman