DRN-3592757
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him by Blue Motor Finance 
Ltd (BMF) under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
On 27 October 2021 Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement with BMF for a car. The car 
was first registered in 2015 and had travelled around 115,021 miles at that time. The cash 
price was £7,499.
Mr M says the seatbelt alarm went off several times while he was driving the car home from 
the dealership. On 1 December 2021 he noticed the clutch was slipping. Mr M complained to 
BMF that the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
On 11 January 2022 Mr M obtained a diagnostic on the car, confirming there were problems 
with the clutch and seatbelt alarm sensor. BMF arranged their own inspection of the car on 
23 January 2022, which also concluded there were issues with the clutch and the seatbelt 
sensor.
BMF didnt give Mr M an answer to his complaint, so our investigator looked into what had 
happened. He didnt think the car had been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to  
Mr M. He thought BMF should collect the car, have it repaired, and refund the payments    
Mr M had made during the period he wasnt able to drive it. 
The investigator also noted Mr M had incurred additional costs and inconvenience. He said 
BMF should reimburse Mr M for the cost of the report on the car (£60) and the cost of 
transferring his insurance (£30), plus £50 for the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused. 
At that stage Mr M and BMF both accepted the investigators view. The car was collected on 
24 March 2022 for repair. But on 5 April 2022 Mr M was told the only work that would be 
carried out was the repair to the seatbelt alarm sensor  and that no work was needed to the 
clutch.
BMF provided a copy of a health check from a manufacturers garage dated 26 April 2022, 
which said there was no evidence of the clutch slipping. BMF said any reasonable person 
should expect a car thats over six years old with a mileage of 115,021 to have parts 
approaching the end of their life. They felt replacing the clutch would amount to betterment. 
Our investigator disagreed  he remained of the view that the clutch should be replaced. So 
the case has come to me for a decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 16 June 2022, saying:
Mr Ms complaint is about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into Mr Ms concerns about BMF.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
says under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  BMF in this case  has a responsibility 
to make sure the goods are of satisfactory quality. It specifically says durability can be 
relevant to whether the quality of goods is satisfactory. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, which will depend on the circumstances. When weighing up 
whether the quality of a car is satisfactory, wed generally expect a reasonable person to 
take into account its age, mileage, and the price they paid for it. 
In this case, when thinking about satisfactory quality, I bear in mind the car supplied to Mr M 
was around 6 years old and had covered over 115,000 miles. It cost around £7,500, which 
represents a significant reduction on what the car wouldve cost new. I dont think a 
reasonable person would have the same standards for this car as they would a newer one 
with less mileage. 
I think a buyer would probably expect parts of the car to have suffered some wear and tear - 
and wouldnt necessarily expect the car to be in great condition. But I do think, given the 
price, that theyd still expect the car to be free from anything other than minor faults when it 
was supplied - and to be able to drive the car for a short period without major issues.
BMF accept the car was supplied to Mr M with a faulty seatbelt sensor, which theyve agreed 
to repair. So my decision will focus on whether there was also a fault with the clutch  and if 
so  whether that meant it wasnt sufficiently durable for a car of that age and mileage. 
BMF say the latest evidence shows theres no fault with the clutch. Ive seen three 
documents about this, which Ill discuss in turn. 
Ive reviewed a copy of the invoice for the health check BMF obtained from the 
manufacturers garage, dated 26 April 2022. This said:
Carried out extended road tested and no clutch slipping/failure was detected at the 
point of road test.
Ive also seen a copy of the diagnostic Mr M obtained from a specialist garage, dated 11 
January 2022. It records the cars mileage to have been 116,202 at that time. It said:
ROAD TEST FOUND CLUTCH EXTREMELY HEAVY, SLIPS IN HIGHER GEARS. 
CLUTCH IS WORN TO EXCESS, COMPLETE CLUTCH AND FLYWHEEL WILL 
NEED TO BE REPLACED.
I find these two documents to be similar in that they were both prepared by businesses that 
carry out repairs. And they both checked the condition of the clutch by road testing the car. 
But only one of these mechanics noted the clutch to be slipping in high gears - the other 
didnt.
Ive also reviewed the independent engineers report BMF obtained, dated 23 January 2022. 
I note this was prepared for BMF by a company that specialises in inspecting and reporting 
on vehicles. I find it to contain much more detail than the other two documents. I consider 
this to have been a full independent inspection.The engineer noted the clutch biting point was high, suggesting it was approaching the end 
of its serviceable life, but there were no issues with static gear selection. After starting the 
car the engineer noted vibration from the clutch pedal, which he felt to be indicative that the 
dual mass flywheel and the clutch friction plate were approaching the end of their 
serviceable lives. The engineer found no evidence of clutch slippage during his road test. 
But he noted that this could be induced by lightly placing his foot on the clutch pedal. 
The engineer concluded, in relation to the clutch, that:
on the grounds of durability, we believe the sales agent should be responsible for any 
necessary repair costs.
Ive also considered what Mr M says happened and his actions here. He says the clutch was 
slipping, he stopped driving the car, complained to the business, and arranged for an 
inspection to take place at his own cost. His actions add some weight to his testimony about 
the clutch having a fault.
Where the evidence is contradictory, as some of it is here, I have to decide what I consider 
to be most likely in the light of the evidence Ive seen. Although the most recent invoice 
stated a different conclusion, both of the other documents said the clutch and flywheel had 
issues  and that the clutch was slipping. So, on balance, Im satisfied that there was a fault 
with those parts. Ive gone on to consider whether this meant the car wasnt sufficiently 
durable when it was supplied to Mr M.
I bear in mind the car was over six years old and had travelled more than 115,000 miles 
when it was supplied to Mr M. BMF say he should expect the car to have parts that are 
approaching the end of their life with a car of this age and mileage. I do agree that it wouldnt 
be reasonable to expect a car of this age and mileage to last as long as a newer car, without 
needing parts to be replaced due to wear and tear. 
But the evidence Ive seen shows Mr M had the car less than five weeks and had travelled 
less than 1,200 miles by 11 January 2022, when he was told the clutch needed to be 
replaced. I think he was reasonably entitled to expect the car to last longer than this without 
needing significant repairs or replacement of parts. 
I accept that driving style can cause clutch failure, but Ive seen nothing in the evidence that 
leads me to think this was the case here. For these reasons I find the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M.
Putting things right
BMF initially accepted our investigators recommendation that they should repair the issue 
with the clutch and seatbelt sensor. Ive seen evidence that they arranged for the car to be 
collected from Mr M and the seatbelt alarm sensor has been repaired. But the repairer didnt 
think the clutch needed to be replaced.
Im mindful of the fact that Mr Ms car was taken away for repair on 24 March 2022  and the 
issue with the clutch remains unresolved. So Ive considered whether any of the other 
remedies provided by the CRA would be more appropriate here. 
The CRA sets out conditions that apply when a consumer asks a business to repair goods 
theyve supplied. The business must do so within a reasonable time, and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer. If they havent been able to do this  or after one repair the 
goods still dont conform to the contract  the consumer has a final right to reject the goods. All things considered, I think Mr M should now be given his final right to reject the car. That 
would mean the agreement is cancelled and Mr M has his deposit refunded.
Mr M has told us he hasnt been able to use the car since 2 December 2021. So I think its 
fair for BMF to refund the payments hes made under the hire purchase agreement since 
then. 
I can see the issues with this car have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr M - 
including having to change his insurance back to his other car so he could get to work and 
obtaining a diagnostic report so he could pursue his complaint to BMF. I think BMF should 
pay him £100 compensation for this.
Ive seen that Mr M paid £30 to transfer his insurance and the diagnostic report cost £60. I 
think these costs were foreseeable consequences of supplying Mr M with a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. So I think BMF should also reimburse these amounts.
Mr M says hes also incurred additional costs due to his old car not being Ultra-Low 
Emission Zone (ULEZ) compliant. Hes provided receipts, showing hes paid charges each 
time he travels into London for work. But Im satisfied Mr Ms travel costs are reasonably 
covered by him being reimbursed for the payments towards the agreement.
I said I intended to uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
End the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr M;
Refund the £1,000 deposit;
Refund the amount Mr M has paid under the agreement since 2 December 2021;
Reimburse Mr M £60 for the cost of the report he obtained on 11 January 2022;
Reimburse Mr M £30 for the cost of transferring his insurance on 6 December 2021;
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  and he believes the 
legislation allows the supplier to repair it. He said he was willing to resolve the complaint by 
BMF doing the following:
Repair the car by replacing the clutch and flywheel within a reasonable timeframe, 
set by the ombudsman;
Provide evidence of the work being done - presenting Mr M with photos, the old 
clutch and flywheel and a full written report;
Refund the amount Mr M has paid under the agreement since 2 December 2021;
Reimburse Mr M £60 for the cost of the report he obtained on 11 January 2022;
Reimburse Mr M £30 for the cost of transferring his insurance on 6 December 2021;
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Mr M went on to say that if the repairs are not done to industry standard, hed like to reject 
the vehicle, end the agreement, and accept all the recommendations set out in my 
provisional decision.Mr M explained the reason for his decision was that hed already waited over six months for 
this issue to be resolved  and had incurred further costs which had severely affected his 
finances. He said he was happy with the car and felt rejecting it at this point would put him in 
the unfavourable position of having to look for another similar car from scratch during a busy 
time for him. He said prices had gone up quite a lot  and he hadnt seen anything suitable 
for his budget. 
Our investigator put Mr Ms proposal to BMF. But in response BMF said they maintain that 
the clutch doesnt need repairing/replacing on this vehicle. So they accepted my provisional 
decision - and accept rejection of the vehicle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr M for setting out his response to my provisional decision in detail. Ive 
given careful thought to the points hes made and the options available to resolve this 
complaint. 
The independent engineers report BMF obtained said there was an issue with the clutch 
that the supplier should repair. 
But, the garage BMF recently instructed to carry out a repair said a repair/replacement of the 
clutch isnt required. 
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied there is a fault with the car. But, I think its possible, 
given what the garage recently said, that replacing the clutch may not resolve the underlying 
problem.
Mr M is keen to have the problem repaired, but I note that hed also like to retain his right to 
reject the car if a further attempt to repair proves unsatisfactory.
 
Bearing all of this in mind, I dont think it would be reasonable to instruct BMF to do 
something that I am not confident would resolve the matter and bring things to a close. So, 
under all of the circumstances Im satisfied rejection, and not repair, is the fairest way to 
meet Mr Ms rights here.
For these reasons, although I realise this isnt the outcome Mr M is hoping for, Im not 
persuaded that I should depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
End the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr M;
Refund the £1,000 deposit;
Refund the amount Mr M has paid under the agreement since 2 December 2021;
Reimburse Mr M £60 for the cost of the report he obtained on 11 January 2022;
Reimburse Mr M £30 for the cost of transferring his insurance on 6 December 2021;
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. If BMF consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should provide Mr M with a tax 
deduction certificate so he can reclaim the tax, if hes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman