DRN-3501834
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) didnt correctly apply a default, 
didnt make sufficient attempts to contact him about this and didnt accept his offer to settle 
the debt. He would like the default removed from his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Ws concern at RBS registering a default on his credit file but from 
what I have seen I cant say it was wrong to do so as six payments were missed prior 
to RBS defaulting the account. 
I appreciate Mr W disputes the six payments were his fault , he says four were a 
result of RBS cancelling his direct debit. But I dont agree. RBS cancelled the direct 
debit  after two attempts to take direct debit payments failed .RBS explained that it 
does this when , as was the case here, consecutive payments are missed. This is  to  
prevent further possible fees on credit cards and bank accounts. I  dont think RBSs 
actions were unreasonable. Mr W was responsible for managing his account. I think 
he would have realised from his bank account that payments werent being made.
In terms of RBSs communications as I understand it Mr W doesnt seem to dispute 
he received letters from RBS but has told us he didnt read them. Had he done so he 
would have had the opportunity to make good his account. From what I have seen 
RBS contacted Mr W regularly between October 2020 and April 2021. Its 
correspondence included everything I would have  expected it to send such as 
missed payment notifications, the default and account termination notices, a letter  
advising of the  involvement of a debt management company and notice of the 
application  of the default itself.
RBSs records also show text and telephone contact with Mr W. Mr W disputes such 
contact. However, I think the written correspondence was sufficient. I think RBS gave 
Mr W numerous opportunities to resolve his account, but he didnt do so. I think the 
default was correctly applied and as its important credit files accurately reflect 
account management I cant reasonably as RBS to remove this.
Finally, Mr W think RBS were unreasonable in not accepting his offer to settle his 
debt. It seems RBS considered Mr Ws offer and put a counteroffer to him . Its 
unfortunate the debt couldnt have been resolved this way but ultimately,  its  a 
business decision for RBS to make as to whether to accept such an offer or not
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman