DRN-2397192
The complaint
Mr C, often represented by his mother Mrs C, has complained about his motor insurer 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited in respect of how it handled a claim made after Mr C 
was involved in a head-on collision in which he was seriously injured.
What happened
Mr C was involved in an accident in December 2018. He suffered significant injuries during 
the crash and cant remember the impact itself or the minutes before it occurred. His father 
came to meet him at the site of the accident and tried to arrange with Advantage to recover 
his car  but Mr Cs father reported the service from Advantage was poor and the police 
arranged for the cars recovery. Whilst an ambulance had been called the police advised 
that, as this hadnt come, Mr Cs father should take him to hospital. 
 
Mrs C notified Advantage of the claim on 21 December 2018. In May 2019, prior to receiving 
a police report, Advantage settled the claim with the third-party drivers insurer on the basis 
that Mr C had been at fault. Mrs C challenged this and Advantage issued a final response 
letter, also in May 2019. But Advantage did agree, in June 2019, to make some further 
enquiries. Those further enquiries lead Advantage to believe that the correct and best 
outcome for this claim would be one of 50% split liability. Mr C said that wasnt ideal but 
would help him, Mrs C felt this wasnt acceptable. Not least she felt Advantage hadnt done 
enough since June 2019.
Advantage had requested a police report in the early stages of the claim. But when it sent a 
cheque to the police to get the report in March 2019, it was incorrectly addressed. The police 
advised Advantage of this but that also, as of March 2019, their enquiries werent complete 
and they couldnt provide the report until they were. Advantage sent a correctly addressed 
cheque by return and, after the police completed their review in May 2019, their report was 
received. 
During the notification call in December 2018, Mrs C was offered assistance via a separate 
legal expenses policy but declined this. However, she did ask for further assistance in an 
email in January 2019. In May 2019 she asked for assistance again and Advantage referred 
to the legal expenses solicitors. The solicitors though told Mrs C that they would not take the 
matter forward at that time. In August 2019, with Mr C now looking to pursue a personal 
injury claim, alongside the issue of liability, Advantage referred to the solicitors again and 
they did take the matter forwards. Advantage told Mrs C in September 2019 that regardless 
of its view that a 50% split on liability would be a good outcome, it would do nothing further 
unless or until the solicitors had concluded their work.
Mrs C remained unhappy about everything, and also became dissatisfied with the work the 
solicitors were doing. The solicitors ultimately achieved an offer from the third-party of a 50% 
split and Advantage obtained a without prejudice settlement on this basis. However, Mrs C 
wanted to provide a full forensic analysis and reconstruction of the accident with a view to 
determining Mr C was not at fault. Advantage agreed to consider further evidence provided.
Regarding other concerns Mrs C had raised, in its final response dated December 2019 
Advantage accepted that it should have handled the recovery of the car better and that it had 
made an error regarding the cheque sent for the police report. But it didnt agree it had 
provided misleading information particularly in respect of the nature of its review in 
June 2019, and it said it had instructed solicitors when asked to do so, but this was only in 
May 2019. It offered £100 compensation for any upset caused.
When Mr C complained to us in May 2020 our investigator, and then an ombudsman, 
explained that we couldnt look at the part of the complaint about Advantage initially settling 
the claim as one of fault against Mr C. In summary it was not within our jurisdiction to do so 
because that complaint had been made to us out of time (more than six-months after the 
May 2019 final response). Our investigator also explained that any concerns about how the 
solicitors had acted when Advantage initially instructed them in May 2019, and then how the 
legal expenses claim was handled post August 2019, had to be dealt with separately too. 
When Mrs C raised concerns about Advantage not sharing with her some of the evidence 
gathered by the police in a timely manner, our investigator said that cant be considered as 
part of this complaint either. 
But there were a number of elements of Mr Cs complaint that our investigator could and did 
consider. In summary she said:
The car recovery was handled poorly, but it was unlikely this prevented Mr C going to 
hospital, the £100 compensation offered by Advantage was fair and reasonable. 
There was an error in paying for the police report but this didnt cause a delay in the 
claim, or the report being provided. Monetary compensation for this wasnt warranted.
Advantage should have arranged the referral to the legal expenses solicitors sooner, but 
its unlikely, if it had, anything would have changed.
Advantage hadnt provided misleading information.
It seemed fair for Advantage to think the best outcome would be a 50% split on liability, 
although it was noted it had agreed to review further evidence.
Mrs C said the outcome was unfair. She said it sent a message that all a driver had to do 
was lie about what happened and the innocent victims insurer would settle without question 
and certainly without completing a proper investigation. Mrs C said it was of note to her that 
even once Advantage had completed its further review (commenced in June 2019) it still did 
nothing in respect of amending the liability position  the offer and without prejudice 
agreement of a 50% split on liability was only generated by the solicitors, and only due to the 
work and effort she put in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this was a crash which resulted in serious injuries for Mr C which hasnt been 
easy for him to recover from. I also understand why Mrs C feels so strongly about this claim 
and the need for Mr C to be found not at fault. However, and with regret for any further upset 
this causes, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.As our investigator explained, there are a number of issues which, for varying reasons, 
I cant look at as part of this complaint. So I wont mention them any further. 
Car recovery  Mrs C has said that it was difficult to deal with Advantage at the time of the 
accident and because of that the police had to arrange recovery and all of this delayed Mr C 
going to hospital. Advantage accepts that it didnt handle this matter well. So all I need to 
consider is what effect that failure had. I see that the police said the ambulance was delayed 
because Mr Cs injuries werent being given priority, so they said Mr Cs father should take 
him to hospital. Mr Cs father says that when he gave up dealing with Advantage and the 
police agreed to arrange recovery of the car, a short while later he was advised to take 
Mr C to the hospital by car. So Im not persuaded Advantages failure likely reasonably 
delayed Mr C going to hospital. But I do think it would have been frustrating for Mr C, whilst 
being in pain in the aftermath of the crash, to hear his father having difficulty in arranging 
recovery of his car. Im satisfied that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable to make up 
for that.
Police report  Advantage accepts that it made an error when sending a cheque in payment 
for the police report. In many situations, an error like this will cause delays. However, I see 
here that the police, at the same time as telling Advantage that the cheque was wrong, told 
Advantage that its enquiries were ongoing and a report couldnt be provided until they were 
complete. So Advantages failure didnt cause a delay. Im not persuaded an award of 
monetary compensation is warranted for this.
Arranging assistance from the legal expenses cover  Mrs C did ask Advantage for details in 
this respect in January 2019 and since the complaint was referred to us Advantage has 
accepted it missed this request. It was only when a further specific request was made by 
Mrs C in May 2019 that it arranged a referral. I often wouldnt place liability for making such 
a referral on to the insurer. But I note that here Advantage was dealing with Mr Cs 
representative following a crash in which he was seriously injured. And it had offered to 
arrange a referral for Mrs C during the claim notification call, but she declined the offer at 
that stage. So I think Advantage should have done more to assist Mrs C (and thereby Mr C) 
in January 2019 when Mrs C asked for help  it shouldnt have taken a further specific 
request in May 2019 for assistance to be given. But Im not persuaded this failure changed 
anything. I say that because when the referral was initially made in May 2019, the legal 
expenses solicitor wasnt minded to take on the claim. I cant see that if Advantage had 
made the referral four months earlier, in January 2019, that the response would have been 
any different. Im not persuaded compensation is reasonably due in this respect.
Advantage provided misleading information  Mrs C said Advantage told Mr Cs father it 
would instruct some top people to review the liability position and this didnt happen. 
Whereas Advantage says it spoke to Mr C and explained what the nature of its review would 
be  essentially reconsideration of the available evidence and completing some further 
checks with the police. I dont think Advantage misled Mr C in this respect. I think it told him 
what it was going to do. And I think the extent of those enquiries was reasonable in the 
circumstances. I also note that its review did change its view on how the liability aspect 
should be settled. However, because by then the solicitors were involved, Advantage 
couldnt reasonably resume negotiations with the third-party insurer. It was fair for 
Advantage to say it had to wait for the solicitors work to conclude. I havent seen anything 
that makes me think Advantage otherwise provided misleading information.
50% liability  Advantage has agreed to review the liability position once more information is 
received from Mrs C. I think thats reasonable. In the meantime, without that evidence, 
I dont think that its view, that a 50% split on liability is the best outcome, is unreasonable. 
I note how strongly Mrs C, as well as Mr C feel about this. I dont doubt they believe Mr C 
was not responsible for this accident  but their belief alone is not sufficient for Advantage to base its liability decision on. Rather Advantage has to take into account what the prospects 
for success are in pursuing the third-party on the basis of them being 100% at fault. I know 
Mrs C feels the available evidence shows the third-party driver must have lied. But I see 
Mr C cant remember the accident itself and there were no witnesses for the actual impact. 
I also see that Advantage noted there was a lot of debris all over the road (meaning it was 
difficult if not impossible to use the siting of debris to determine on which side of the road the 
collision took place). And that in Advantages experience most head-on collisions are difficult 
to prove fault lying entirely with one side or the other, most are settled on a split liability 
basis. Taking all that into account leads me to conclude that Advantages position is not 
unreasonably taken  that doesnt mean it is necessarily right and that I am saying Mr C 
was or is likely partly at fault. Rather its simply the case that there are some very clear 
issues that Advantage would have to overcome if it were to look beyond a split liability 
settlement which means its reasonable for it to not pursue that course of action. To 
emphasis though  I say that in light of the evidence that Advantage has seen and 
considered to date. So if Mrs C provides further expert evidence, which looks to determine 
fault for the crash, Id expect Advantage to consider that and review its position on liability  
which I note it has agreed to do.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman