DRN-2879298
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Amtrust Europe Limited declined her claim on her furniture warranty.
What happened
In 2017 Mrs B bought a sofa with a five year warranty underwritten by Amtrust. In 2020 she 
made a claim after noticing damage under the arm of the sofa and by the reclining 
mechanism.
Amtrust declined the claim as it said the damage was due to wear and tear which is 
excluded under the policy. Mrs B didnt agree, she said while she didnt know what the cause 
of the damage was, she didnt agree it was wear and tear. She said it was in parts of the 
sofa where pressure wasnt applied so must have been caused by a one off accident. She 
made a complaint.
Amtrust didnt uphold her complaint. It said it considered the damage to have happened over 
a period of time so was satisfied that the exclusion for wear and tear applied.
Mrs B didnt agree and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said she thought the damage 
by the reclining mechanism had been fairly declined as the damage was consistent with 
wear and tear. However she said the damage under the arm of the sofa was most likely 
caused by a one off event so didnt think Amtrust had acted fairly by applying the exclusion 
here. She thought it should cover that part of the claim.
Mrs B accepted our investigators opinion. However Amtrust didnt agree. It said Mrs B had 
been unable to confirm how the damage was caused, which means she had failed to show 
there had been an incident that would be covered under the warranty So it didnt agree it 
should cover the claim. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a claim is made on an insurance policy, its for the insurer to either accept the claim or 
prove that an exclusion applies. Amtrust has said that the damage would be excluded as it is 
due to wear and tear that has happened gradually, over time. Ive considered whether it has 
done enough to show this exclusion applies and if it had applied it fairly in the 
circumstances. 
The exclusion Amtrust has relied on is as follows:
This insurance will not pay for costs arising from: - Any damage, soiling or staining
caused: - by wear and tear, anything which happens gradually or over a
sustained period of time...
Ive looked at the photos of the damage to the sofa. I agree that the damage near the 
reclining mechanism fits this definition. The photo shows a rip where the mechanism meets 
the sofa material. This is frayed where is has continually rubbed on the mechanism over 
time. So I agree its most likely this has happened gradually and over time
Ive also looked at the photo of the damage under the arm of the sofa. This shows the fabric 
is ripped. However there isnt anything in the vicinity that would have likely caused this 
damage  as there is with the other damage. Further, it is in a position that isnt exposed, so 
wouldnt be subjected to regular pressure or contact that may cause it to wear over time. 
Based on this I think the damage was most likely caused by a one-off event, rather than over 
time. As I can see no reason why wear and tear would have occurred in that area, nor do I 
think the damage is consistent with a gradually occurring cause. 
The policy states it provides cover on the following basis:
will cover You under this insurance against the cost of removing stains or repairing 
damage caused by a sudden and unforeseen accidental event
As there is a tear in the fabric I think its most likely this was caused by a sudden and 
unforeseen accidental event. So Im satisfied that the likely cause of the damage is covered 
by the policy and I dont think Amtrust has acted fairly by applying the exclusion for wear and 
tear.
Amtrust has said that Mrs B doesnt know what the cause of the damage was. And the 
warranty only provides cover for specific circumstances that are listed in the policy 
document. But I dont think this is a fair application of the policy terms.
The damage is on the underside of the sofa arm. This is an area that isnt on show. So its 
reasonable that when the damage happened to that area, Mrs B may not have noticed it 
happening. So I think its reasonable that she may not know what caused the damage. But I 
dont think its fair for Amtrust to exclude the damage just because the cause is unknown.
The policy outlines that its purpose is to insure against unforeseen damage. And it doesnt 
specifically state that the cause of the damage should be known to the policyholder. I think 
Mrs B has done enough to show that the damage has been caused due to an unforeseen 
and sudden event. Even though that event is unknown. 
For these reasons I dont agree Amtrust has done enough to prove a policy exclusion fairly 
applies. So I agree with our investigator that Amtrust should accept the claim and settle it in 
line with the other policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Amtrust Europe Limited to accept Mrs Bs claim for 
damage to the arm of her sofa and settle it in line with the policy terms.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman