DRN-3613962
The complaint
Miss R and Miss W are unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society dealt with their 
request for a refund of a payment they made using their Nationwide debit card. 
What happened
Miss R and Miss W were planning a trip abroad and they both needed visas for part of their 
trip. In early 2020, they paid a company Ill call V to arrange their visas. Miss R and Miss W 
used their Nationwide Visa debit card to make the payment.
A few weeks later, Miss Rs and Miss Ws travel operator cancelled their planned trip due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. But they couldnt get a refund of the payment theyd made to V as 
its terms and conditions said these were non-refundable. So, Miss R and Miss W asked 
Nationwide for a refund. But when this didnt happen, they complained.
 
In response, Nationwide told Miss R and Miss W it was restricted in when it could give them 
a refund. It later told us that it went on to consider raising a chargeback against V but didnt 
do so as it was a genuine transaction that was non-refundable. Nationwide accepted it had 
failed to respond to a letter from Miss R and Miss W. It apologised for this and paid £50 into 
their account. 
Miss R and Miss W brought their complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of 
our investigators. She didnt think Nationwide should have refunded the payment. Briefly, our 
investigator thought Miss R and Miss W had received the services from V theyd paid for and 
there was no basis for Nationwide to refund this payment. 
Miss R and Miss W didnt accept this. In brief, they said: they hadnt received the service 
from V that we said they had; they were unaware of any condition of service for this 
purchase; they were denied the right to use the visas theyd purchased; and they dont 
understand why another member of their party was given a refund from their own bank.
 
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, Im very aware Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and largely in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is at 
the heart of the matter here: has Nationwide treated Miss R and Miss W unreasonably by not 
giving them a refund? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
 
As Miss R and Miss W used a debit card to make the payment to V, it was open to 
Nationwide to attempt a chargeback to get them a refund. A chargeback is a way in which 
payment settlement disputes can be resolved between card issuers, such as Nationwide, 
and merchants, such as V. These disputes are dealt with under the relevant card scheme 
rules. The card scheme here is Visa. In certain circumstances, this process provides a way 
for Nationwide to ask V to give Miss R and Miss W a refund. This would include where 
goods or services arent supplied.
 
A chargeback isnt a consumer right. It doesnt guarantee a refund. Instead, its a process 
run entirely by the scheme provider under the rules that the provider sets. I would point out 
that Nationwide is under no obligation to submit a chargeback. But I would consider it good 
practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable 
prospect of success. But here, I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success.
 
I say this because Im satisfied Miss R and Miss W received the service they paid for. I can 
see they paid V £281.62. Other than their testimony, the available evidence doesnt show 
the details of what this payment was actually for. But, given this testimony, and also the 
details available on Vs website, Im satisfied its role was to assist Miss R and Miss W with 
their visa applications  that is, making sure the applications were correctly filled in and 
submitted. Vs website makes it clear its not responsible for the granting, or otherwise, of the 
visas. Its also clear to me the fees they paid to V were non-refundable. I can see the visas 
were issued. So, as Ive said, Im satisfied Miss R and Miss W did receive the service from V 
they paid for.
 
It follows that there was no reasonable prospect of success of a chargeback getting Miss R 
and Miss W a refund. The relevant reason code under the Visa chargeback rules would have 
been goods or service not received. If Nationwide had attempted a chargeback, Im satisfied 
this would have been easily defendable by V as it had provided the service. So, as there was 
no reasonable prospect of a chargeback succeeding, Im satisfied Nationwide hasnt treated 
Miss R and Miss W unreasonably by not giving them a refund.
 
Nationwide accepts its communication with Miss R and Miss W should have been better. I 
can see it has apologised and already paid them £50 for this. Given this didnt ultimately 
have any bearing on if a refund was due, Im satisfied £50 is a fair and reasonable payment 
for these issues. Im not asking Nationwide to pay anything more in respect of this.
 
Ive already outlined why I think Miss R and Miss W received the service they paid V for. Im 
not going to comment any further on this. They also say they were unaware of any 
conditions of service for this purchase. But theres nothing in the available evidence to 
support this. Also, I can see that Vs terms and conditions are freely available online, as I 
would expect them to be.
 
Miss R and Miss W say they werent able to use the visas. I accept this. But the service they 
paid V for was to assist in the visa application process. V wasnt responsible for the actual 
granting of the visas nor was it responsible for the cancellation of their trip. I would repeat 
here, Im satisfied they received the service they paid for. 
Miss R and Miss W say they dont understand why another member of their party was given 
a refund by their bank. Nor do I. I want to make it clear that Im only looking at Miss Rs and 
Miss Ws individual complaint against Nationwide. A such, Im only looking at the actions of 
Nationwide, not anybody elses bank. I dont know why, or on what basis this other person 
received a refund and Im unable to comment further on this.
 I really do understand and appreciate Miss Rs and Miss Ws frustration that they havent 
been able to go on their trip and this has meant theyre out of pocket. But this doesnt mean 
Nationwide have done anything wrong by not giving them a refund and, as Ive explained, it 
is the actions of Nationwide Im looking at.
 
In summary, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied Nationwide hasnt acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by not giving Miss R and Miss W a refund. So, theres no basis for me to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This final decision marks the end of the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this 
complaint. This means we are unable to consider the merits of it any further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Miss 
W to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman