DRN-2666872
The complaint
Mr B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made on his 
Home Emergency policy
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
All references to Aviva also include their agents.
Avivas final response to Mr Bs complaint is dated 20 February 2020. My final decision 
considers events up until this date  and any reference to events that occurred after are for 
contextual purposes only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made several detailed points and I want to assure him Ive considered everything 
he has said very carefully. So, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr B, and by Aviva, to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Home Emergency policies are typically designed to address immediate problems  
not to serve as long term fixes or maintenance to a wider issue. I can see the policy 
defines an emergency as repair work undertaken to resolve the immediate 
emergency and prevent further risk to health or damage to the property
Regarding plumbing and drainage, the terms and conditions of the policy say the 
engineer will resolve the immediate problem (my emphasis) and it gives examples of 
how theyd achieve this - such as by repairing or replacing leaking pipes or clearing 
blockages. The terms also say the engineer will leave a blocked drain running clear 
by clearing the drain or repairing or replacing the damaged section of waste pipe
The policy additionally says it excludes any investigative work, where the incident 
which caused a customer claim has already been resolved
Avivas engineer attended Mr Bs property in December 2019 as Mr B had reported a 
blockage. The engineer confirmed in their notes that they jetted the drain and that the 
drain was unblocked
I can see in their notes they also said a CCTV survey of the drain showed a part of it 
had bellied. Mr B was informed of the issues with the drain and that the issues could 
have been caused by subsidence. Mr B believes Aviva should be responsible for 
replacing the pipework
Aviva were required to deal with the immediate emergency, which was to clear the 
blockage  and from looking at the information available Im satisfied they did that.  If 
they were aware of further issues surrounding the drain from their investigations, its 
reasonable they bring it Mr Bs attention  which they did. It would then be for Mr B to 
consider whether he wanted to take matters further independently and have this 
investigated
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman