DRN-3276988
The complaint
Mr A and Miss B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr A and Miss B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around January 2018, Mr A and Miss B was contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr A and Miss B decided 
to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In November 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mr A and Miss Bs behalf under section 75 of 
the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr A and Miss B to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response before the complaint was referred to us. Shawbrook 
explained to us that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr A and Miss B. 
But it said it would pay them £200 in recognition of the delay in its response to the complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr A and Miss B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr A and Miss B relied on the verbal representations made by the sales 
representative and placed little reliance on the Project Solar documentation, because 
the salesman was so convincing with the way he verbally explained the financial 
benefits of the system. 
The sale in this matter was conducted in our clients home, face to face, and as such 
the vast majority of the sales meeting was conducted verbally. Mr A and Miss B had 
no reason to believe that the assurances they had been given during the course of 
that meeting were inaccurate.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr A and Miss B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook 
agrees that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr A and Miss B could 
claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P 
in the same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 
into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr A and 
Miss B and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr A and Miss Bs recollection of the 
sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central 
part of the sales process with P when Mr A and Miss B agreed to enter into the contract for 
the system. I have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with 
those made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the 
quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mr A and Miss B agreed to enter 
into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Self-funding
Mr A and Miss B have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the 
quote that was provided by P and considered whether this supports what Mr A and Miss B 
has said.The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr A and Miss B could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr A and Miss B could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £113.96.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr A and Miss B could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £192.01 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chose by Mr A and Miss B the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £401.97. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr A and Miss B entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £86.00. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £86.00, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr A and Miss B could expect to receive from 
the system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. 
However, I do accept that Mr A and Miss B was told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that between year 21 and 25 the overall benefits 
that Mr A and Miss B could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable 
under the loan agreement of £15,468.40. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr A and Miss B that the system would pay for 
itself between year 21 and 25, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, 
and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr A and Miss B. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 1,768 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr A and Miss Bs FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 1,817 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2018 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr A and 
Miss B couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the 
returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that 
this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr A and Miss B 
entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr A and Miss 
B to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr A and Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman