DRN-3649753
The complaint
Mr W complained to Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat 
Financial Services (VWFS) that it didnt treat him fairly when it terminated his 
hire purchase agreement.
What happened
VWFS entered into a hire purchase agreement with Mr W in May 2019. The cash price of 
the car was £11,505 and the total amount owing under the agreement (including interest 
and fees) came to £15,329. This was to be paid in 47 monthly instalments of £233 and a 
final payment of £4,365 (all figures rounded).
Mr W made all his repayments on time until May 2020. His direct debit payments for May 
and June 2020 were rejected. Mr W contacted VWFS on 15 July (the day his July 
payment was due) and explained that hed been impacted by the pandemic and had been 
furloughed. The call notes show that the direct debit facility was reinstated and Mr Ws 
payments resumed in August. VWFS terminated the agreement on 26 August and by the 
26 September had repossessed and sold the car and credited the sales proceeds to the 
account. This left an outstanding balance which Mr W arranged to repay at £70 a month. 
The Statement of Account shows that Mr W made five payments of £70 after the car was 
collected.
Mr W complained to VWFS in May 2021 and said the agreement should not have been 
terminated and it shouldnt have repossessed the car. VWFS disagreed and didnt uphold 
his complaint. Mr W brought his complaint to us in July 2021.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. They found that as Mr W had 
returned to full-time work by the time he spoke to VWFS in July he was no longer 
impacted by the pandemic, and so the regulations which applied to customers impacted 
by the pandemic didnt apply in Mr Ws case. In addition, Mr W hadnt made an 
arrangement to repay his missed payments despite the attempts VWFS had made to 
contact him. They concluded that VWFS didnt act unfairly when it terminated Mr Ws 
hire purchase agreement and didnt recommend that his complaint be upheld.
Mr W didnt accept this recommendation. He said that he thought hed applied for a 
payment deferral when he contacted VWFS on 15 July. He said that hed tried to get in 
touch with VWFS before and after this point but the telephone wait times were hours long 
and he was unable to commit the time. Mr W says that VWFS shouldnt have 
repossessed his car as hed been impacted by the pandemic and the regulator had 
banned repossessions. He also says that VWFS sold the car for less than it was worth, 
leaving him with a large outstanding balance to repay. He asked for his complaint to come 
to an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 July 2022 explaining why I thought Mr Ws complaint 
should be upheld. Mr W accepted my decision and VWFS provided some further points 
for me to consider when making my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including what VWFS said in response to my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. I 
appreciate that will be very disappointing for VWFS and Ill set out again my reasons for 
doing so in this final decision and refer to its response where appropriate. 
As before, I have taken into account the law and relevant regulatory rules when making 
my decision. These include, for example, the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Consumer Credit Handbook (CONC) which sets out its regulations and guidance for 
lenders such as VWFS about what should happen before and during credit agreements. 
Ive also borne in mind more recent guidance issued by the FCA on 24 April and 17 July 
2020 which set out how it expected businesses to provide exceptional and immediate 
support to customers in motor finance agreements facing temporary payment difficulties 
because of coronavirus.
I disagreed with our investigators conclusion that this guidance wasnt relevant because 
Mr W had told VWFS on 15 July 2020 that hed returned to work full-time and was now in 
a position to resume his monthly payments. Mr W said hed been unable to meet his 
repayments in May and June because hed been on furlough and was in receipt of 80% of 
his pay. He told us that his partner was on a zero hours contract and was not working or 
receiving pay. When Mr W contacted VWFS to ask for help in dealing with the resulting 
arrears it offered him an arrangement to pay because it recognised that it wasnt feasible 
for him to pay the whole amount in one go, especially given his circumstances. I consider 
that Mr W was still impacted by the pandemic at that point as hed experienced, and 
continued to experience, temporary payment difficulties as a result of circumstances 
relating to the coronavirus.
Ive quoted some sections of the guidance below as I think these are particularly relevant 
to this case. The overarching requirement (Principle 6) for VWFS was, and is, to pay due 
regard to Mr Ws interests and treat him fairly.
Firms should make it as easy as possible for their customers to contact them both 
online and by phone Where customers have been unable to reach timely agreement 
with firms for a payment deferral because of firms operational difficulties and 
subsequently miss a payment which is reported to their credit file, or where they have 
entered into a similar temporary payment deferral arrangement with their lender as a 
result of the coronavirus situation which has resulted in a worsening arrears status being 
reported, we would expect firms to work with customers and Credit Reference Agencies 
to ensure that any necessary rectifications are made to credit files to ensure no 
worsening arrears status is recorded during the payment deferral period. Firms should 
also ensure no default or arrears charges are levied in relation to payments missed in 
these circumstances.
There is no expectation under this guidance that the firm makes enquiries with each 
customer to determine the circumstances surrounding a request for a payment deferral, or 
whether this is not in the customers interests. Firms can, however, choose to make the 
enquiries they consider necessary in order to satisfy themselves that the customer is 
eligible for support and to identify whether the customer would benefit from any additional 
support, provided that this does not delay the provision of timely support.
Where the customer has the right to use the vehicle, firms should not take steps to terminate the agreement or seek to repossess the vehicle (whether by way of any 
requisite legal proceedings or otherwise) where the customer is experiencing temporary 
payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus and needs use of 
the vehicle. We consider that seeking to terminate the agreement or commencing or 
continuing repossession action as described above is very likely to contravene Principle 
6 - absent exceptional circumstances (such as a customer requesting that repossession 
continues).
The guidance highlighted the unfair relationship provisions set out in the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) - in particular, sections 140A(1)(a-c) and 140A(2). Section 140A 
states:
140A(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
140A(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor).
Examples of the orders set out in Section 140B include reducing or discharging any 
sum payable by the debtor.
Our investigator set out in detail what happened after Mr W took out the agreement in 
their view to both parties. Neither party has disagreed with this account so I dont think the 
events themselves are in dispute. For completeness I will summarise what I understand 
has happened based on the information both parties have provided.
What happened
Mr W contacted VWFS on 15 July 2020 and said he hadnt been able to make his 
previous two payments because hed been furloughed. He said hed tried calling a 
couple of times before and had been on hold for over two hours, and this was his fourth 
time attempting contact. VWFS apologised and said that it was incredibly busy at the 
moment.
When Mr W did get in touch, he explained that he was back to normal now with work but 
has been left with two months worth of arrears. The VWFS representative said that they 
could reinstate Mr Ws cancelled direct debit so that increased arrears didnt make his 
situation worse and that his August payment would go out as normal. They offered Mr W 
an arrangement to pay to clear the arrears of, for example, £20 or £30 a month, instead 
of asking for the total saying that it wasnt always feasible especially as hed just gone 
back to work. Mr W was told We can definitely set that up, yes and was transferred to 
another team to continue the call.
I understand this was a blind transfer meaning Mr W would need to go through the 
security checks again and explain his situation. Mr W says he didnt have sufficient 
battery charge to continue the call and that he worked outside with no access to a charger. He told us that hed called back that evening and on other occasions but been 
unable to get through. I understand the next time Mr W spoke with VWFS was on 3 
September.
Meanwhile VWFS sent Mr W a default notice for his arrears on 17 July, and an SMS 
message about them on 11 August. This was followed by a letter on the 26 August 
explaining that the agreement had been terminated. Mr Ws monthly payment for August 
had been collected by direct debit as agreed.
My considerations
Ive considered whether VWFS treated Mr W fairly when he missed payments on 
his agreement in 2020 and asked for help.
VWFS sent Mr W several letters about his missed payments prior to his call on 15 July 
2020. The letters stated If there has been a change in circumstances which has impacted 
your ability to pay then call us on [-] and speak to a member of our team between 9 am 
and 6 pm Monday to Friday. The letters dont refer to any website content or make any 
mention of coronavirus-related support, nor did the representative on the call on the 15 
July.
VWFS told Mr W in its final response to his complaint that its collections department 
doesnt offer a managed account service whereby it calls all customers who are in 
arrears, and that it was reasonable to expect him to act upon letters sent to him and 
inform it of any difficulties faced with payments.
I appreciate that Mr W didnt speak with VWFS before or during the time he missed his 
first two payments. However, I dont think VWFS made it easy for Mr W to make contact 
during this time. It seems to me that VWFSs operational difficulties prevented Mr W from 
receiving a timely and appropriate response to his payment difficulties which were 
coronavirus-related.
I can understand why it might have been difficult to get through to with VWFS on the 
phone to discuss missed payments, however I dont think VWFS managed to mitigate 
this by providing immediate and exceptional support to Mr W when he informed it that 
the reason hed missed his payments was because hed been furloughed from work due 
to the coronavirus. And, while it assured him he could begin to make his repayments as 
normal and that it would set up a repayment plan to clear his arrears, it continued with 
collections activity.
In response to my provisional decision VWFS said:
Whilst the waiting time on our phone lines was significantly longer than usual due 
to the unprecedented amount of calls we were receiving from our customers, we 
cannot see that Mr W attempted to contact us by using any other channel: post, 
email or website;
The business has made the customer aware of arrears by sending letters, the 
first contact Mr W had with VWFS about arrears was on 15 July [2020]. We 
would have expected the customer to contact us sooner if they had financial 
difficulties due to Covid-19;
As we have not received any payment deferral request from Mr W, we correctly 
considered the missed payments as arrears and terminated the agreement. There 
was no reason why the business would have considered the missed payments as 
deferred payments because Mr W had never made a payment deferral request.VWFS provided copies of several letters it sent to Mr W about his arrears and all of them 
requested that he get in touch by phone to make a payment by card or to discuss any 
financial difficulties. I appreciate that it took Mr W some time to make contact by phone 
but, as mentioned, it wasnt as easy as usual to get in touch given the circumstances. 
VWFS told us that it had been offering payment deferrals to impacted customers at the 
time. The regulations in April and June state that  if, during an interaction between the 
firm and the customer, the customer provides information suggesting that the customer 
may be experiencing or could reasonably expect to experience temporary payment 
difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, the firm should ask 
whether the customer wishes it to consider granting a payment deferral. 
It seems to me that VWFS was required to be proactive in its dealings with consumers 
impacted by the pandemic. As it was offering deferrals at that time it seems odd that it 
didnt consider giving Mr W this option. I remain of the view that VWFS could have acted 
in line with the regulators guidance here and considered Mr Ws arrears as deferred 
payments. It could have been more flexible regarding its collections activity and not 
exercised its rights under the agreement, given the circumstances. 
I also think that VWFS treated Mr W unfairly and without due regard to his interests when 
it terminated his agreement and repossessed the car. Although it had sent him letters 
regarding arrears, it shouldnt have treated Mr W as though he wasnt engaging with it, 
given the conversation theyd had in July and that Mr W had made his payment on 15 
August as agreed.
Putting things right
Mr W says he lost out financially because VWFS sold the car for less than hed seen 
similar models advertised elsewhere, yet it continued to pursue him for the balance owing 
under the agreement. In order to resolve his complaint Mr W wishes to have the 
outstanding balance written off, which I understand is over £4,105 as of April 2021.
In response to my provisional decision, VWFS said After the repossession, the vehicle 
was sold as per our process. It is in our interest to obtain the best possible sale price and 
in this case the vehicle sale did not cover the balance due under the finance agreement. 
When a vehicle is repossessed, the customer is liable for the outstanding balance which 
means that if the sale price is lower than the balance, the customer is liable for the 
shortfall.
While this might describe what usually happens, Ive concluded that in this case VWFS 
should not have repossessed and sold the car. And I remain of the view that Mr W 
shouldnt continue making payments for a car he is now without due to this unfair 
repossession. In order to put things right for him VWFS should write off the outstanding 
balance. 
This balance will include the unpaid rentals from May to July 2020. I have noted that Mr W 
has paid £350 since October 2020 and so has not yet covered the cost of the three 
months rental when he did have the use of the car but didnt make any payments. 
However, we can consider awards to compensate for the practical and emotional impact a 
businesss mistake had, in addition to compensation for a financial loss. As set out on our 
website, an award of between £100 and up to £300 might be suitable where a businesss 
actions have resulted in an impact that lasts a few days or weeks and causes some 
distress and inconvenience. I think that Mr W suffered distress and inconvenience when 
the car was repossessed and that this difference in payments appropriately reflects that impact. So I dont consider that Mr W needs to pay anything further.
I also think that Mr W should not have his credit record impacted due to any adverse 
information recorded regarding this agreement. If any has been recorded then VWFS 
needs to take steps to amend this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am upholding Mr Ws complaint and direct 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial Services to take 
the above steps to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman