DRN-3896071
The complaint
Mr R complains that MoneyGram International Limited closed his account without giving him 
an explanation. Mr R would like to know why the account was closed and to have his 
account reopened.
What happened
Mr R had an account with MoneyGram. He used it to mainly transfer money to his family and 
friends. He had trouble accessing his account and learned his account had been closed 
immediately and with no notice. MoneyGram said Mr Rs account was closed due to a 
violation of the terms but said they were unable to provide Mr R with detailed information.
Mr R was unhappy  he complained to our service and said while he hadnt experienced 
financial loss, he had suffered mentally. Mr R wanted his account reopened and wanted 
access to his transaction history.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. He said MoneyGram were entitled to close the 
account, but he hadnt seen enough to satisfy him that they were fairly complying with their 
terms by closing it immediately. He thought Mr R should have been given notice and asked 
MoneyGram to pay £50 compensation for the inconvenience and provide Mr R with access 
to his transaction history.
MoneyGram responded. They provided Mr R with information on how he could access his 
transaction history but didnt agree they should pay compensation as they say they were 
acting in line with their internal policies.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Rs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. Having 
looked at the evidence I am satisfied that this is what MoneyGram was doing when they 
reviewed Mr Rs account. 
Its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, account facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a financial institution must keep a 
customer or require them to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. 
However, they must ensure they comply with the terms and conditions when closing an 
account.
Ive carefully considered the terms of the account which Mr R agreed to when he opened his 
account with MoneyGram. Section 2.11 explains the circumstances on when MoneyGram 
may close the account immediately. The specific terms include that MoneyGram can 
without notice.terminate or suspend your access to your Profile at any time, including 
without limitation, if:
(a) You attempt to Transfer or charge funds from a credit or debit card that does not 
belong to you or which has expired.;
(b) Your financial institution attempts a charge back on a Transfer.;
(c) You provide incorrect or false information about yourself, your debit or credit card 
details or about a Recipient;
(d) You attempt to tamper, hack, modify or otherwise corrupt the security or functionality 
of the Service;
(e) We receive conflicting claims regarding ownership of, or the right to withdraw funds 
from a debit or credit card account;
(f) You have breached a term or condition of this Agreement, or any representation or 
warranty that you make under this Agreement is false;
(g) We determine that your Profile is inactive;
(h) We believe that the Transfer may expose us to action from any government or 
regulator.
Based on the confidential information and evidence MoneyGram has shared with our 
service, like our adjudicator, I cant fairly agree that Mr R has breached any of the above 
terms. Therefore, I cant reasonably say MoneyGram have acted appropriately when closing 
Mr Rs account without notice.
Term 2.12 states; may without liability to you, terminate or suspend your access to the 
Profile at any time and for any reason by giving you 30 days notice.
Based on the full circumstances of this complaint, I consider 30 days notice would have 
been more appropriate. 
Putting things right
Mr R has explained he didnt suffer any financial loss when MoneyGram closed his account 
 but he did say the closure caused him mental stress. As Ive found that 30 days notice 
would have been more appropriate, I do recognise the immediate closure would have had an 
impact on Mr R. He said he uses the account to send his own money to relatives, so for that 
facility to be immediately stopped with no legitimate reason would have been worrying. 
Therefore, I consider £50 compensation fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to Mr R.
I recognise Mr R wants his account reopened, so hell be disappointed by my decision. But 
Ive explained above MoneyGram are entitled to decide who they provide account facilities 
to. So, I cant reasonably ask them to reopen Mr Rs account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, 
MoneyGram International Limited should pay Mr R £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman