DRN-3759118
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) decision to decline his claim 
for medical expenses under his travel insurance policy.
Any reference to IPA includes their medical assistance provider.  
What happened
Mr W injured himself whilst climbing abroad on 13 February 2022. He was admitted to 
hospital at 2pm that day with a compound fracture of his ankle. He was told he needed 
surgery. Him and/or his partner made several attempts to call IPA and his partner eventually 
managed to speak to someone at IPA at 4.26pm the same day. The person she spoke to 
also spoke to Mr W and took details of the incident. The assistance notes show that Mr W or 
his partner told IPA that he needed an operation. The notes also show that the 
representative explained the claim needed to be assessed and that shed email with what 
documents IPA needed. IPA contacted the hospital the following morning to ask for 
information. But, as hed not heard anything, Mr W called IPA at 11.01am and asked for the 
outcome of the claim assessment. It seems from the notes provided by IPA that their 
representative told him the outcome hadnt been decided. They also suggest Mr W then said 
he was going to tell the hospital to go ahead with the surgery himself and would like IPA to 
send an email to the hospital confirming this. IPA sent the email as requested. This said the 
hospital could go ahead with the surgery as Mr W had agreed to it himself. It also said that 
they were awaiting confirmation from their sales department that Mr W purchased his policy 
before leaving the UK. IPA eventually contacted Mr W at 2.20pm and told him his claim 
wasnt covered, as rock climbing other than on a climbing wall wasnt an activity covered by 
his policy. Mr W paid for the surgery himself and it was carried out at 6pm on 14 February.
Mr Ws partner called the next day to dispute the decision and IPA eventually spoke to Mr W 
and told him they wouldnt change their decision. They also said theyd escalated a 
complaint for him. Mr W eventually returned to the UK and IPA issued a final response letter 
explaining why they felt their decision to decline Mr Ws claim was reasonable. 
Mr W asked us to consider his complaint. He said he was unhappy with IPAs decision to 
decline the claim on the basis he felt the activity he was doing was covered by the policy, as 
his policy covered climbing on a climbing wall, which is what he considered he was doing. 
He also said IPAs email confirming the surgery could go ahead was unclear and that this led 
to him agreeing to it without realising his claim might not be covered. Hes further explained 
this was because he knew that hed purchased his policy before he left the UK and he 
thought this was the only thing IPA needed to check. He also said IPA took too long to make 
the decision on policy cover and this delayed him agreeing to the surgery, which in turn led 
to post operation complications. He said if hed realised his claim wasnt covered hed have 
flown back to the UK for surgery. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point in this type of case is to consider whether the claim made by the 
policyholder is actually covered by the policy. Having done so in this case, I dont consider it 
is. Mr Ws policy stated the following under the section headed What is not covered  
applicable to all sections of the policy:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from:
6. Other Sports or activities
Your participation in or practice of any other sport or activity, manual work or racing unless:
a) specified in the list on page 16/17 or
b)shown as covered in your schedule
Rock climbing is not listed on pages 16 or 17, although climbing (on a climbing wall only) is. 
And it was not listed as covered in the policy schedule provided to Mr W.
I appreciate Mr W thinks he was climbing on a climbing wall because, for many climbers, a 
climbing wall can either be a natural (rock) climbing wall or an artificial (multiplex board) 
climbing wall. And what makes a natural rock face a climbing wall is that it has purposely 
placed bolts drilled into the surface to define a climbing route, which safety gear can be 
bolted into on assent and anchor points at the top which the climber can abseil from after 
reaching the top. However, I dont think on a reasonable interpretation of the term climbing 
wall, a rock face like the one he was climbing could be said to be a climbing wall. Ive 
checked the web links Mr W provided as part of his evidence to us. And, whilst I accept there 
are some references to climbing routes with purposely placed bolts as climbing walls, these 
are fairly limited and they seem mainly to be referred to as routes up rock faces, as opposed 
to climbing walls. So, I think most people, including many climbers, would realise when 
reading the policy that it only covered climbing on climbing walls, and that the sort of 
climbing Mr W was doing would not be covered. In the circumstances, Im satisfied IPAs 
decision to decline Mr Ws claim on the basis he wasnt climbing on a climbing wall when he 
fell off and broke his ankle is a reasonable one. 
Im also satisfied that IPA didnt give Mr W the impression at any point prior to telling him his 
claim wasnt covered that they were likely to accept it. IPA did send an email to the treating 
hospital to say they could go ahead with the surgery and mentioned in this that they were 
waiting for confirmation Mr W had purchased his policy in the UK. But the claims notes show 
this was in response to a request from Mr W and that he could not have been under the 
impression when he got this email it meant his claim was covered provided hed purchased 
his policy in the UK. I say this because there is nothing in the call notes that suggest IPA 
actually told Mr W theyd made a decision on his claim before they sent the email he asked 
them to send. And, according to Mr Ws timeline of events, he paid for his surgery after hed 
been told over the phone that IPA had declined his claim. 
It took IPA over 24 hours to make a decision on Mr Ws claim. And, bearing in mind it was an 
accidental injury, so they didnt need any details of his medical history before letting him 
know whether he was covered, I do think they could perhaps have made their decision a bit 
quicker. However, overall, I think they reached it in a reasonable time, which was in line with 
what Id consider to be good industry practice. In any event, I cant really see that not 
knowing whether IPA would pay for the surgery can really have influenced Mr Ws decision 
on whether to go ahead with it abroad. He had a compound fracture of his ankle and I think it 
unlikely that Mr W would have got a fit to fly certificate with this sort of injury or physically been able to get on a normal plane with it. I also think its unlikely Mr W would have gone to 
the trouble and expense of arranging a full special medical repatriation and  in doing so  
put himself through a great deal more discomfort and risked complications by a further delay, 
just to get back to the UK to have the surgery he needed on the NHS. 
It therefore follows, that, whilst I am sorry to hear about Mr Ws accident and the 
complications hes had following the surgery, I dont think IPA were wrong to turn his claim 
down or did anything else wrong that means his complaint should be upheld.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint 
about Inter Partner Assistance SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman