DRN-2829168
The complaint
Mrs P complains about changes made to her term life assurance policy, provided through 
the Society of Lloyds (SoL).
SoL is a market used by the broker and underwriters that provided the policy. But our 
approach is to treat SoL as the respondent to the whole complaint.
What happened
Mrs P raised her complaint in April 2020, when the monthly premium for her life assurance 
policy went up to £60. Mrs P was unhappy because she was told the premium would stay 
the same for five years  at just under £21  when she took the policy out in 2017.
A second problem with the premium then came to light. Unknown to Mrs P at the time, the 
premium had gone up each year shed had the policy. In 2018 it rose to about £25 per 
month. And in 2019 it went up to about £27 per month.
In response to Mrs Ps complaint, the broker from SoL accepted that the 2018 increase was 
a mistake. They offered a £50 compensation payment, and said theyd refund the overpaid 
premiums. But their response  and the refund theyve given Mrs P  doesnt seem to have 
taken into account that the premium rose again in 2019.
The original underwriter from SoL explained that the 2020 increase in the premium 
happened because theyd decided not to continue to provide Mrs Ps insurance product. 
That meant a new underwriter was providing the cover, at a higher cost.
The original underwriter explained that the terms of the product allowed them to stop offering 
cover, as long as they told Mrs P. They couldnt find a record of having told her though. So 
they offered her £100 compensation for the upset caused.
Mrs P didnt feel SoL had done enough to resolve her complaint, so she came to us. I looked 
at the case and explained why I felt SoLs refund needed to be higher and include interest, 
and that the compensation for trouble and upset should total £250.
I asked Mrs P and SoL to let me know their thoughts before I made a final decision. The 
comments Ive received havent changed my understanding of the facts of this case. So a lot 
of my decision is unchanged. But I have added some further explanation of my reasoning 
around putting things right, in response to the comments Ive received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant see that weve received the full terms or sales information that would have been given 
to Mrs P when she took her policy out. But based on whats been quoted in the various 
responses to her complaint, its clear that the premium for her policy shouldnt have gone up 
in 2018 and 2019. That it did points to a mistake, which SoL should put right.
But the driving force for Mrs Ps complaint is the 2020 increase. That one wasnt a mistake  
it reflects that the underwriter had changed. The terms Ive seen  again, just an extract  
show this was something that could happen. So although the policy may have been sold on 
the basis the premium wouldnt go up for the first five years, it didnt guarantee that the 
policy would run for at least that long.
I can understand how thats disappointing to Mrs P. But it means SoL dont need to provide 
the cover at the original premium. Its reasonable for the cover to be cancelled, even within 
the five-year period when SoL had committed not to increase the premium.
But I recognise the unwelcome surprise of this to Mrs P. I think most people, if told their 
policys premiums would be fixed for five years, would expect the policy to last that long. I 
feel that adds to how important it was for SoL to make sure Mrs P knew when that wasnt 
going to be the case.
SoLs underwriter has no record of telling Mrs P about the change. And Mrs P seems to 
have been genuinely surprised by it. Both points are consistent with her not being given 
reasonable notice of the change in underwriter. So I find it more likely than not that SoL 
havent done enough to make sure Mrs P knew the change was happening.
So while the terms of the policy allowed for the events that led to the premium increasing in 
2020, SoL should have done more to make sure Mrs P knew and understood what was 
happening.
Putting things right
Mrs P has confirmed that SoL have already paid her a refund of £103.20 for the 
overpayment of premiums in 2018 and 2019. But both she and I calculate that she actually 
overpaid by £129.24.
Although I asked SoL to check my calculation in my preliminary decision, I cant see that 
they have. But theyve commented that they should only be responsible for the policy prior to 
2020. That seems to have missed what I said in my previous decision, so Ill set it out in 
more detail.
From 2017 to 2018, Mrs P paid £20.82 per month for her policy. Over 12 months, that comes 
to £249.84. Thats what I find she should have paid each year, up to the policy being 
cancelled in April 2020. 
But in 2018 the monthly cost went up to £25.15. That meant she paid £301.80 that year  
£51.96 more than I find she should have.
And then in 2019, the monthly cost went up again  to £27.26. That meant Mrs P paid 
£327.12 that year - £77.28 more than shed paid in 2017/2018.
SoL have already refunded £103.16. But based on the evidence Ive seen, thats not right. 
The refund should have been for £51.96 plus £77.28  the overpayments Ive calculated 
above for the years 2018/2019 and 2019/2020. Thats in line with SoLs comments that 
theyre only responsible up to the end of the 2019/2020 year of the policy.
Adding those two numbers gives me £129.24, or £26.08 more than SoL have already paid. 
So thats how much more they need to pay to put right the error in the cost of the policy.On top of that, they should pay simple interest at 8%, to reflect that Mrs P hasnt been able 
to use the money wrongly taken from her. That interest should run from the date it was taken 
from Mrs P, up to the date its returned to her. SoL should work that out and  if this decision 
is accepted  explain their calculation to Mrs P when they pay it to her. 
Turning to the premium increase in 2020, Ive already said my view is the terms allowed for 
the underwriter to withdraw their product from the market. So if the service had been 
reasonable, Mrs P would always have had to find a new policy if she didnt want to pay the 
higher premium the new underwriter charged.
But the key difference is that she should have been made more aware she needed to do 
that. She wouldnt have been surprised when £60 was taken from her.
Mrs Ps spoken to us about that emotional impact. And shes repeated those comments 
again in response to my provisional decision. I can appreciate the difference in premiums 
was significant for her, given her income and circumstances at the time. Id like to reassure 
Mrs P that Ive given thought to her discussions with our investigator, and considered how 
her specific circumstances were affected by SoLs poor service. 
But as I explained previously, Ive also considered circumstances in this case that lead me to 
a lower remedy than Mrs P would like. 
I can see the £60 payment was due to be taken on 16 April, and Mrs P called to complain 
about it on 23 April. And the premiums were refunded over the following months. So the 
impact was short-lived, in that sense.
And although Mrs Ps talked about her disappointment and the inconvenience to her of 
finding new cover, I find that follows from the underwriters decision not to continue with the 
product. Ive already found that was reasonable for them to do, so Im not going to add to the 
compensation for that impact.
SoL offered a total of £150 to compensate for their mistakes, although Mrs P says theyve 
only paid £30 of this to date. My view is that the compensation should reflect the trouble and 
upset those mistakes caused for Mrs P. I feel this went further than SoL have recognised. 
But based on my reasoning above, I dont feel the impact is quite as large as Mrs P feels.
With this in mind, my current view is the compensation should be increased to £250 in total - 
£100 more than SoL already offered, and £220 more than theyve apparently paid. Ill leave it 
for them to decide whether  and how  to split this cost between the broker and the 
underwriter in this case.
This figure takes account of the overall trouble and upset for Mrs P. That includes the impact 
of finding out in 2020 that the premium had risen in 2018 and 2019 when it should have 
stayed level. And her feeling now that the mistakes made by SoL amount to breaches of 
contracts, and compromised the data security of her and others. And the time and money 
shes spent pursuing her complaint over the phone and in writing with SoL, and then with us. 
Given that a lot of the impact Mrs Ps described isnt financial, Im not going to try and give 
separate amounts for each element shes described. Picking an overall figure is a matter of 
opinion, but based on the points above, a total of £250 is the right figure in this case. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ps complaint about Society of Lloyds. To put things right, theyll need to do the 
following.Refund Mrs P a further £26.08, to bring the total refund of overpaid policy premiums 
to £129.24.
Pay simple interest of 8% on that total refund, from the time it was taken from Mrs P 
to the time its repaid to her.
Pay £220 more compensation to Mrs P  giving a total payment of £250  to 
recognise the trouble and upset caused for her by the mistakes as a whole.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman