DRN-3393712
The complaint
Mr G complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited undervalued his car when he 
claimed on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Gs car was damaged, so he claimed on his policy with Admiral. Admiral reviewed the
claim and accepted it. They initially valued Mr Gs car at £14,800 but Mr G said this was too
low and complained. He said his car was a rare model with only around 200 ever being
made. Admiral reviewed the valuation and increased it to £20,350.
Mr G said this still didnt fairly reflect what his car was worth and referred his complaint
here. He also provided an opinion on the cars value from a specialist for his car. The
specialist valued his car between £35,000-£40,000.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint and recommended it be upheld. She reviewed
the motor trade guides Admiral used but found the specialists opinion more persuasive in
this case. She therefore recommended Admiral pay Mr G £37,500 as the market value for
his car.
Admiral didnt agree, it said the specialists view were an opinion from a garage. Admiral
also didnt think the value given was like for like as the evidence used to reach the opinion
was based on newer models or ones with lower mileage. Mr G accepted our investigators
opinion and provided more adverts for cars similar to his, but for more money. He said his
car had been in storage as Admiral hadnt dealt with his claim properly and thought that
given the recent adverts, hed found Admiral had been let off lightly by being asked to pay
£37,500.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 May 2022 where I said:
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices.
Admiral said it used two trade guides to value Mr Gs car, which gave values of £14,800 and
£20,350. Admiral hasnt provided copies of the valuations it obtained so Ive looked at the
three trade guides we have access to. These provided values of £14,980, £23,921 and
£24,750. Normally I would discount the £14,980 as its significantly lower than the other two
and so is an outlier.
However, in this case Mr G has explained his car is a rare model of which only around 200
were made. Hes also provided an opinion from a garage who specialises in cars similar to
his. The report Mr G has provided says:
The most recent of these that have been sold, advertised or auctioned
have been £35,000-£70,000, yours being of moderate mileage, we 
have given it a lower estimate in that price range.
The report then goes on to say that in their opinion a fair value for Mr Gs car at the time was
around £35,000 to £40,000.
When reviewing this report along with the trade guides, Im inclined to find the report more
persuasive. I say this because the trade guides give an opinion based on the data they have.
Considering there are other similar models, but with a lower specification to this car, which
sell for a lot less, and only around 200 of these particular model and specification were ever
made, Im not satisfied the guides have accurately taken into account the rarity of them.
Furthermore, when looking at the report Mr G provided, the specialist garage has supplied
and sold these cars and also found only 36 registered as being on the road in the UK in Q2
of 2021. Mr G has also provided adverts for similar cars to his, albeit some with a lot less
mileage on, or a year newer, which are being advertised for between £62,500 to £74,995.
Overall Im more persuaded by the report Mr G has provided which says his car is worth
around £35,000 to £40,000. Therefore, I think a fair market value for Admiral to pay is
£37,500.
Mr G explained that hes always wanted to keep the car and repair it. Because of this hes
retained the salvage, which Admiral has valued at £7,936.50. As Mr G has retained the car,
Im satisfied its fair for Admiral to deduct this salvage amount from the settlement. 
Therefore, Admiral needs to pay Mr G £29,563.50 in settlement of his claim.
Mr G also explained because Admiral didnt repair his car or pay him the total loss
settlement. Hes had no choice but to pay to keep his car in storage. As Im satisfied Admiral
didnt fairly value Mr Gs car initially, he wouldnt have had to pay the storage costs but for
Admirals error. Therefore, to put Mr G in the position he would have been if his car had 
been correctly valued at the time, Admiral needs to refund Mr G what hes paid for storage, 
subject to Mr G providing a reasonable invoice for this.
Admiral should also add 8% simple interest per year to both of these amounts to 
compensate Mr G for not having the money. Also, if Admiral had correctly valued Mr Gs car 
originally, its likely Admiral would have repaired it. Instead Mr G has had the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience of storing his car, and now has to arrange the repairs himself, 
Admiral should therefore compensate him for this. Im satisfied £500 is a fair and reasonable 
amount for Admiral to pay to Mr G for this unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr G responded and provided an invoice for the storage costs hed incurred up until 3 June 
2022 which showed hed incurred £830 of storage costs, at a rate of £30 per week for 24 
weeks. 
Admiral responded and provided two options for Mr G, one was to agree to the market value 
of £37,500 but said the salvage amount would increase to £14,625 and the car would remain 
a salvage Category S. Admiral said if Mr G accepted this option, as a cheque for £12,413.50 
had already been sent to him, it wouldnt pay interest on the amount paid from the date the 
cheque was sent. It clarified that the remaining balance it would pay would be £10,461.50. 
The second option was to pay Mr G £12,413 in cash in lieu of repairs. Admiral said once Mr 
G showed the car had been repaired, it would remove the salvage Category S marker.
Admiral agreed to the £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience, but said it 
wouldnt agree to pay Mr Gs storage costs as it was his choice to retain the salvage and he 
was sent a payment of £12,413 in October 2021 which would have allowed him to fix the car.  Our service sent the two options Admiral had suggested to Mr G for him to consider. After 
some consideration Mr G said he didnt want to accept either of Admirals offers, instead he 
said he accepted the outcome proposed in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Admirals response and its not persuaded me to depart from my provisional 
decision. I explain why below. 
Admiral has accepted the market value of £37,500 and the £500 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience, so I wont consider those further. Admiral though has said it would need 
to increase the amount deducted for Mr G retaining the salvage. Im aware that salvage rates 
do vary depending on an insurers arrangement with the salvage agents they use. However, 
Admiral hasnt provided anything other than its testimony that the amount it would receive 
would increase to £14,625, so Im not persuaded thats a fair amount to deduct without 
seeing other evidence to show thats what it would have received. Im therefore satisfied the 
salvage amount of £7,936.50 mentioned in my provisional decision is a fair and reasonable 
amount to deduct for Mr G retaining his car.
Ill now address Admirals point about not paying interest on the cheque for £12,413 sent to 
Mr G, and also not covering his storage costs as he could have used this money to pay for 
repairs. Ive not been persuaded to depart from my findings in my provision decision. I say 
that because Admiral hasnt shown it made it clear this was an interim payment and wouldnt 
affect Mr Gs complaint. 
Admiral had proposed this amount in settlement of his claim and sent Mr G a cheque for 
£12,413, and without any explanation to say it could be cashed as an interim payment while 
his complaint was ongoing. Im therefore not satisfied its fair and reason to not cover the 
interest on this amount or not pay Mr Gs storages costs. This is because Mr G didnt want to 
cash the cheque in case it affected his claim and therefore has been without this money and 
incurred additional storage costs, he wouldnt have had but for Admirals error. Im therefore 
not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. 
Mr G has provided an invoice which shows hes liable for storage costs of £830 up until 3 
June 2022, accruing at a rate of £30pw. As these seem reasonable, Admiral needs to pay Mr 
G the £830 storage costs hes already incurred, plus any additional storage costs hes 
charged at £30pw up until the date it makes settlement. Interest would only need to be 
applied to this amount if Mr G has paid the storage fees as it is to compensate him for not 
having the money. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision. My final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr G:
1. £29,563.50 in settlement of his claim, as the amount payable after the salvage value
of £7,936.50 has been deducted from the market value of £37,500. Minus the policy
excess, if applicable.
2. The £830 hes been charged for storage up until 3 June 2022, plus any additional 
storage costs hes charged from this date, at a rate of £30pw, until the date 
settlement is made3. £500 for distress and inconvenience
Admiral Insurance Company Limited also need to add 8% simple interest per year to 1 and 2
above to compensate Mr G for not having the money. Number 1 should be calculated from
the date of claim until the date settlement is made and number 2 calculated from the date Mr
G has paid it until the date settlement is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman