DRN-3859802
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide Building Society surrounding 
his request to transfer an ISA account to Nationwide.
What happened
Mr P applied to transfer his ISA to Nationwide via Nationwides app. His application was 
rejected because the necessary information hadnt been sent to his previous ISA provider. 
Mr P applied using the app again, but the application was declined for the same reason. 
Mr P visited a Nationwide branch and was told a member of staff would fill in the application 
for him and that hed receive a call from Nationwide about his application shortly. Mr P didnt 
receive a call from Nationwide, so he went into branch again, at which time a staff member 
did complete the ISA application with him. Mr P wasnt happy with the poor service hed 
received from Nationwide surrounding his application, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ps complaint. They noted the applications Mr P had made via their 
app had failed because Mr P had inputted incorrect information, so they didnt feel theyd 
made any error in regard to those applications. But Nationwide did accept that Mr P hadnt 
received the call back hed been promised, and they apologised to Mr P for this and made a 
payment of £25 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred. Mr 
P wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response and asked them to remove the £25 
compensation from his account as hed already referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response Nationwide had 
issued to Mr Ps complaint already represented a fair outcome to what had happened. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Nationwide have been able to demonstrate that the 
reasons the ISA transfer applications Mr P made via the Nationwide app failed is because 
Mr P inputted incorrect or incorrectly formatted information when submitting them. 
Specifically, one of the applications failed because Mr P supplied an incorrect name for the 
business which held his ISA at that time, while in the other instances Mr P supplied the sort 
code and account number of his previous ISA provider in a format that wasnt accepted by 
his previous provider, meaning that those applications were rejected by his previous provider 
on the basis of insufficient information and not by Nationwide themselves.
Its an applicants responsibility to ensure information provided in an online application is 
correct, and so I dont feel Nationwide have acted unfairly towards Mr P regarding the 
declining of those applications. 
Mr P has explained that when he went into branch, one of Nationwides staff explained to 
him that there was a problem with the app, and so Mr P feels that Nationwide should be 
ultimately responsible for his applications being unsuccessful.
I can appreciate Mr Ps position, but it doesnt necessarily follow that because he was told 
there was a problem with the app that it was a problem with the app that caused his 
applications to be declined. And, as explained, having considered the information provided 
by Nationwide regarding those applications, Im satisfied that they did in fact fail for the 
reasons explained above, for which Mr P as the applicant was responsible for. And it 
therefore follows that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ps complaint.
However, when Mr P went into Nationwides branch about his applications, he was promised 
a call back by a member of Nationwides staff which Mr P didnt then receive. Nationwide 
have acknowledged this point, and theyve apologised to Mr P for it and offered to pay £25 
compensation to him for any trouble and upset he may have incurred  for this specific point.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but I feel the £25 offer Nationwide has made 
here is fair, and so I wont be instructing Nationwide to do anything further. In arriving at this 
position Ive considered that this compensation is solely for Mr P not receiving the call he 
was promised and the impact that not receiving this call might have had on him. And having 
done so, I can confirm that the £25 offer of compensation is commensurate to what I might 
have instructed Nationwide to pay, had they not already offered to do so.
All of which means that I feel the response Nationwide have already issued to Mr P in regard 
to his complaint  including that Nationwide didnt do anything wrong in regard to the online 
applications, and the £25 compensation offer for Mr P not receiving the call back hed been 
promised  already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what happened here.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr P was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I hope Mr P will 
understand, given all Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman