DRN-1704797
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) was irresponsible in its lending to 
her.
What happened
This complaint is about the £1,000 loan H&T provided to Mrs H in October 2017.
Mrs H said that adequate checks werent carried out before the loan was provided and that 
she had other short term loans outstanding at the time. She said adequate checks would 
have shown the repayments werent affordable and that she has needed to borrow more to 
make her repayments.
H&T said that before the loan was provided it carried out creditworthiness checks and 
gathered information about Mrs Hs income and expenses. It said it checks were propionate 
and based on the information received the loan repayments were affordable.
Following an initial view not upholding this complaint, this case was reconsidered and our 
adjudicator upheld it. He thought that proportionate checks would have shown Mrs H was 
having difficulties managing her money.
H&T didnt accept our adjudicators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
H&T needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mrs H 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, at the start of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that H&T should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H&T was required to establish 
whether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loan - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having 
to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments 
sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint.
Before the loan was provided, H&T gathered information about Mrs Hs income and 
expenses and carried out a credit check. Mrs Hs monthly income was recorded as £2,300. 
While I appreciate the comments made about this amount, as this was Mrs Hs first loan I 
find it reasonable that H&T relied on the information she provided in regard to her 
employment and income. 
Mrs H was also asked for information about her expenses and a credit check was carried 
out. I find that at this stage in the lending chain, and given the size of the monthly 
repayments (under £150) compared to Mrs Hs recorded income, that this set of checks was 
proportionate. However, H&T is also required to ensure that the information gained through 
the checks is reasonable and doesnt raise concerns that need further investigation. 
In this case, Mrs Hs application noted that she is in rented accommodation but then there is 
no amount included for rent (although I note a high number is included for household costs). 
Her credit report suggests she has credit commitments but then no amount is included 
against this in the application. I think further verification could have been carried out in 
regard to Mrs Hs expenses. 
I have looked through Mrs Hs bank statements to understand her expenses, particularly her 
credit commitments. While I wouldnt necessarily expect H&T at this stage in its relationship 
with Mrs H to have requested bank statements I do think further clarification regarding her 
expenses should have been obtained. Based on the information I have seen, Mrs H had a 
number of short term loans outstanding at the time of the H&T loan and had taken out 
multiple loans over the previous few months. I think that had further information about her 
expenses been gathered these would have been identified. 
Given the amounts Mrs H was repaying on her other loans, combined with her declared 
monthly expenses, I find that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mrs H. 
Overall, I find that although the checks initially appeared proportionate, as the information 
gathered through these should have raised questions, it is reasonable that further checks 
should have been carried out. Had these checks taken place I find that H&T would have 
realised that lending to Mrs H at that time wasn't sustainable. Therefore I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mrs H paid on the loan along with interest of 8% 
simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement*; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mrs Hs credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to take off tax from this interest. H&T must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Harvey & Thompson Limited. Harvey & 
Thompson Limited should take the actions set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman