DRN-3430203
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited avoided his car insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay a claim made by a named driver.
Mr A is being represented by the named driver Miss S in his complaint.
What happened
Mr A took out a car insurance policy with Admiral Insurance online through a comparison 
website in June 2019. 
Miss S made a claim to Admiral when she damaged the car. No other vehicles were 
involved. Admiral checked Miss S and Mr As driving history with the DVLA. It discovered 
that Mr A had two motoring convictions which he hadnt disclosed to Admiral when he 
bought and subsequently renewed the policy. 
Admiral said Mr A had answered the question it asked about previous convictions in the past 
five years incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy and keep the premium Mr A had paid. 
Admiral said as the policy effectively never existed, it wouldnt meet the claim.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
found that Admiral had acted reasonably. 
Miss S on behalf of Mr A doesnt agree with the investigator. In summary she says Mr A 
didnt deliberately misrepresent the information. She says he answered the questions to the 
best of his abilities and believed as the conviction had been spent he had no legal obligation 
to disclose it or truthfully answer the question. 
Miss S says Admiral never emphasised the importance of the question  and that Mr A 
misinterpreted the question and wasnt experienced in applying for motor insurance without 
assistance. Miss S feels the misrepresentation wasnt deliberate or reckless and therefore 
feels its a harsh outcome for Admiral to keep the premium Mr A paid. She says Admiral was 
aware of its decision to avoid the policy before it took a payment in August 2021. She says 
they asked Admiral to send a copy of the policy documents that were available online to Mr 
A but didnt receive them. 
So as Miss S on behalf of Mr A doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Admiral Insurance thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he didnt answer its question about his driving history correctly. 
Ive looked at the question Admiral asked Mr A when he applied for the policy. It read:
Convictions
Have you had any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties, 
disqualifications or bans in the last 5 years?
I understand Miss S says Mr A wasnt experienced in applying for car insurance cover 
without assistance. But I think the question was very clear. Mr A answered the question the 
day before a six month disqualification from driving conviction was due to end. The start date 
of the policy Mr A requested was the next day: the first date he was qualified to drive since 
the conviction in December 2018. The question makes no reference to whether a conviction 
has been spent or not. Admiral clearly asked for details of Mr As driving history from the 
past five years.
So I think Mr A failed to take reasonable care when he answered this question. 
Admiral has provided its underwriting criteria to show that had it known about Mr As correct 
driving history, it wouldnt have offered him a policy. 
This means Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Mr A received a speeding conviction in 2020 which he failed to disclose to Admiral at 
renewal.
Admiral has classified the misrepresentation of the disqualification conviction as deliberate 
or reckless because Mr A was aware of the date the disqualification was due to end when he 
applied for the policy  as he applied for it the day before and with a start date of when the 
disqualification ended. 
I agree that Mr As misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless for the same reasons as 
Admiral. I think Mr A was aware of his driving history and deliberately or recklessly answered 
the question incorrectly. 
As Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions Admiral Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Even if Admiral would have offered a policy, where the misrepresentation is deliberate, 
under CIDRA Admiral isnt required to offer a policy. And it is entitled to keep the premium 
paid under the policy.
Therefore, Im satisfied Admiral Insurance was entitled to avoid Mr As policy in accordance 
with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Admiral Insurance does not have to deal with the claim for damage to the car. As CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Admiral Insurance to rely 
on it to avoid Mr As policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Miss Ss point that Admiral didnt provide a copy of the policy documents even though they 
were available online isnt part of the complaint, so I cant make a finding on that in my 
decision. 
Admiral became aware of the discrepancy with Mr As driving licence on 22 July 2021. It 
contacted Mr A on 26 July 2021 to ask for his comments on the discrepancy. Admiral 
received and reviewed Mr As response on 10 August 2021. This was four days after the 
premium for 6 August 2021 was due. I think Admiral correctly gave Mr A the opportunity to 
respond to the misrepresentation it identified before reaching a decision to avoid his policy. 
So I dont think Admiral did anything wrong in deciding not to return the August premium as I 
dont think its decision to avoid the policy could have been reached before it considered Mr 
As response to its findings. 
I understand Miss S and Mr A will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Admiral has 
acted in a fair and reasonable way. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman