DRN-1535089
 
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr W and Mrs M in 1995, in connection 
with a mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr W and Mrs M if they couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr W and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr W and Mrs Ms case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-    If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr W and Mrs Ms needs?
-    Did Halifax give Mr W and Mrs M the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
W and Mrs M are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr W and Mrs Ms case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr W and Mrs M say PPI wasn't mentioned to them during the mortgage application 
process, and that they weren't given a proper choice. They suggest that if it was mentioned, 
it must have been presented in a way that made them think it was a requirement of getting 
the mortgage. I've noted everything they've said.The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr W and Mrs M and 
Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened over twenty 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasn't been able to provide much information from the time the policy was sold, 
which isn't surprising given the amount of time that's passed. And it's similar to some other 
cases I've seen. 
But it's provided copies of its records that show Mr W and Mrs M both had to answer a 
series of questions to check that they were eligible for the policy, and that it was suitable for 
them. They also had to decide the proportions in which the policy benefit would be split 
between them.
So it seems likely to me there was some sort of discussion between them and Halifax before 
they took out the policy. And from what we know about Halifax's sales processes at the time, 
on balance I think it's likely the bank would've made them aware the cover was optional.
So without anything else to support what Mr W and Mrs M have told me, I dont think I can 
fairly and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that they had a choice about 
buying the PPI.
Halifax can't say for sure how the policy was sold, but it's agreed to treat the complaint as 
though it advised Mr W and Mrs M to take out the cover. And it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
Mr W and Mrs M were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
Mr W and Mrs M say they were entitled to employer benefits if they couldnt work due 
to sickness or accident, and that they had life cover. But the policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to their employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having 
the policy in place wouldve meant Mr W and Mrs M could use their employer 
benefits to pay for other expenses. Mr W and Mrs M's life cover would've only paid 
out in the event of death, so I'm not persuaded the PPI duplicate those benefits. 
Overall, I think the policy wouldve been useful to them despite their existing 
arrangements. 
Mr W and Mrs M werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions 
and limitations.
I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr W and Mrs M before they 
agreed to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I 
think it unlikely Mr W and Mrs M would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr W and Mrs M werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr W 
and Mrs M would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman