DRN-2902337
The complaint
Mrs D complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) when she returned her hire vehicle. 
What happened
Mrs D entered into a hire agreement for a vehicle with MBFS in January 2019. The 
agreement ran for two years, and the vehicle was returned at the end of the agreement 
period. 
Collection agents collected and inspected the car for MBFS on 26 January 2021. They 
completed an inspection with Mrs D present, with no damage noted to the vehicle at the 
time. 
A second inspection was completed on 5 February 2021 at the collection compound, and 
MBFS sent Mrs D an invoice for end of contract damage charges of £295. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs D complained to MBFS. She said that she took the car to a local 
repair centre in November 2020 to have some damage to the bumper repaired. She asked at 
the time for any damage to be checked and the repair centre told her nothing else would 
need to be repaired to bring the vehicle in line with the return standards in her agreement 
with MBFS. 
Mrs D explained that shed been unable to drive the vehicle due to an operation from 
November until it was collected, so itd been on her driveway since. Mrs D told MBFS that 
her husband had handwashed the vehicle the night before the inspection and found no 
damage. Mrs D believes that the damage happened between the first and second 
inspections, as the car had been driven 11 miles and she didnt know where it had been kept 
during this time. 
MBFS reviewed the damage charges and issued a final response to Mrs D. They said that 
as the first inspection was completed in the dark, a second inspection had to be undertaken. 
They gave Mrs D a link to the photos and video taken in the second inspection and said that 
the damage was clear, so shed been charged correctly. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs D brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mrs D. They thought that the damage MBFS were asking Mrs D to pay for was 
clear in the photos. They also thought that a second inspection wasnt unusual if the weather 
conditions were bad, and so they didnt think MBFS needed to do anything more. 
Mrs D asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint afresh. She maintains that there 
was no damage on the vehicle when it was collected, and it happened in the time between 
the first and second inspections. Mrs D believes that the collection agent might have driven 
the car to his home address rather than taking it straight to the collection compound. 
Mrs D said the first inspection agent didnt say anything about the possibility of a second 
inspection, and the car could have been driven to several places by several people in the 11 
miles it covered between the two inspections. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D signed a hire agreement in early 2019, the terms of which set out that the vehicle 
must be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return standards. The 
agreement sets out the acceptable return standards, beyond which it allows MBFS to charge 
for the costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Mrs D was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition, but the question is whether the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable. 
I understand that Mrs D had the vehicle inspected in November 2020, and some repairs 
undertaken to bring the car in line with the vehicle return standards. Mrs D wasnt able to 
drive the car between these repairs and its collection. There was a long period of time 
between the repair and the collection, and I think its possible that damage could have 
occurred in this time, even with the car on Mrs Ds driveway. So, Im not satisfied that the 
November 2020 repair means there was no damage to the car at the time of collection.
 
I appreciate that Mrs D believes that the car was damaged between the two inspections. I 
havent seen any evidence that the vehicle was driven anywhere but to the collection agents 
compound, and I think this is supported by the low mileage that the car travelled in this time.
 
Ive seen the report from the first inspection completed by the collection agents. This 
includes a video of the inspection, and a recording of the result, which was that a second 
inspection was required. The video shows that the vehicle was wet, and it was dark at the 
time of the inspection. I appreciate that any dents might have been easy to miss under the 
conditions that the first inspection was conducted. 
I dont think it was unreasonable in the circumstances for the collection agents to have 
undertaken a second inspection once the vehicle was back at their compound, and in more 
optimal conditions. I also dont think its unreasonable for some damage to have been 
missed in the first inspection, due to the conditions at the time. 
Ive seen the report from the second inspection completed by the collection agents. This 
records the damage outside of fair wear and tear, and the charge to Mrs D, as follows: 
Left hand front door Dented 15mm to 50mm  cold metal repair £35
Right hand front door Dented  up to 15mm with paint damage  repair and refinish £260
Along with the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement, there are industry standard 
guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which 
set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. So, I have 
also considered these in deciding what its fair for MBFS to charge on return of the car.
The hire agreement says that minor body dents are acceptable, provided they are less than 
13mm in diameter and there are no more than one per panel or two per vehicle. The BVRLA 
fair wear and tear standards say that dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable 
provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. Ive reviewed the photos provided by the collection agents. Im satisfied that they show the 
dent to the left-hand front door exceeds 15mm. So, Im satisfied that this is outside of both 
the BVRLA guidelines and the MBFS vehicle return standards, and MBFS can fairly charge 
for this damage. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided for the right-hand door, and Im satisfied that these show 
the dent. The car is white, and the primer is also white, but Im satisfied that the photo shows 
some damage to the paintwork. So, Im satisfied that this is outside of both the BVRLA 
guidelines and the MBFS vehicle return standards, and MBFS can fairly charge for this 
damage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman