DRN-1831223
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lex Autolease Ltd wont reimburse her for returning a car under 
mileage. 
What happened
In October 2016 Mrs S was supplied with a car and entered into a lease agreement with Lex. 
The agreement was for 3 years and the annual mileage limit was 20,000 miles.
At the end of the agreement the car was returned with around 15,000 miles less than the 
maximum limit. Mrs S said shed contacted Lex in 2018 and asked to reduce the mileage 
limit but had been told this wasnt possible.  She later fond out that the rules changed 3 
months after her call and that she could have changed the agreement. She wants to be 
reimbursed for the under mileage.
Lex said the agreement didnt allow for amendments and refused Mrs Ss request for 
reimbursement for under mileage. It also said it had no record of Mrs S contacting them in 
2018.
Mrs S remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Lex had any obligation to 
inform Mrs S that it had become possible to change the agreement.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said shed returned the car under mileage and believed the market 
value was increased as a result. She wants a rebate of £700.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the lease agreement. This says the annual mileage limit is 20,000 (or 60,000 
miles in total for the term).
Mrs S says she contacted Lex in 2018 and was told it wasnt possible to change the 
agreement. She since discovered that around 3 months after her call the position changed 
and it would have been possible to change the mileage limit. She thinks Lex should have 
contacted her to let her know.
Lex has said it has no record of Mrs Ss call. I have no reasons to doubt what Mrs S has said 
and on balance I think she called.
I appreciate that Mrs S feels that Lex should have contacted her. However, I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Lex to check all its records and contact all consumers who previously 
enquired about changing the agreement. This would present a significant administrative 
burden.
Theres nothing in the agreement to say what happens if a car is returned under mileage. 
So, Im unable to ask Lex to reimburse Mrs S. If the agreement had said something ab out 
under mileage the position might have been different. But as it stands, Im not persuaded 
that there is any basis to ask Lex to do anything.
I appreciate that Mrs S feels that the car would have been worth more because of the under 
mileage. There are several factors which affect a cars value and mileage is only one of 
these. Im unable to say whether, taking into account all relevant factors such as for instance 
mileage, damage and  market conditions, whether the under mileage made any difference to 
the value. Theres no evidence to suggest that it did.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that Lex has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman