DRN-3737492
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) dealt with his request for 
assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 21 September 2018, Mr L was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with SMF. The agreement was for £8,800 over 60 months; with 59 monthly 
repayments of £228.86 and a final payment of £238.86.
In May 2020, Mr L contacted SMF to tell them his income had been affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic. A payment arrangement was put in place, but Mr L lost his job in December 2020. 
Mr L was unable to agree a payment arrangement with SMF, and they chased him for the 
outstanding arrears.
Mr L has complained that SMFs contact with him was excessive; that they wanted him to 
pay off the arrears within 12-months, which he was unable to afford to do; and that they 
threatened him with repossession of the car. SMF replied to these complaints on 10 August 
2021, explaining why they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. However, as a gesture of 
goodwill, they waived £24 outstanding fees.
In March 2022, Mr L again complained to SMF. He said that, when he called them to set up 
a payment plan, he overheard the advisor telling a colleague they were going to enjoy this 
call and would try to be as difficult as possible. Because of this, Mr L said he felt SMF were 
being obstructive and taking pleasure from the situation. And he wasnt being treated fairly.
SMF responded to this complaint, saying that theyd listened to this call and they agreed 
their advisor had acted unprofessionally. They explained that they were taking any 
necessary action against the individual involved, and they offered Mr L £250 compensation. 
Mr L wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the issues SMF had responded to in their 10 August 2021 letter 
couldnt be considered, as Mr L hadnt brought these to us within six months of SMFs letter. 
However, the complaint about the phone call could be considered. 
The investigator also explained that SMF had been unable to provide us with a copy of the 
call Mr L was complaining about. And, because of this, theyd increased their compensation 
offer to £300. Based on Mr Ls testimony of whatd happened, the investigator thought this 
offer was fair, and she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He said that SMF has deliberately withheld 
damaging evidence to mislead you and that destroying evidence wasnt acceptable or fair. 
Because Mr L didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The types of complaint we can look into are set out in our rules which can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook under DISP. These include time limits on how long 
a person can wait before bringing their complaint to us. 
So, unless a business consents or there are exceptional circumstances, a person usually 
has to bring their complaint to us within six months of the final complaint response issued by 
the financial business  in this instance SMF.
In their final complaint response of 10 August 2021, SMF explained why they thought theyd 
acted reasonably. They also explained that, if Mr L remained unhappy with their response, 
he had six months from the date of their letter to bring his complaint to us. They letter also 
explained that, if he didnt refer his complaint to us in time, then they wouldnt consent to us 
considering the complaint out of time.
Mr L raised his complaint with us on 2 March 2022. And, as SMF havent consented to us 
considering Mr Ls complaint out of time; I need to consider if there were any exceptional 
circumstances that stopped Mr L from bringing his complaint to us before the end of the six-
month period  by 10 February 2021.
Mr L has said that he sent his complaint to us on 7 February 2022, and he believes this was 
the start of the complaints process. He also said that I have the right to complain if 
something is not right and I am not being treated fairly.
While Mr Ls Complaint Form is dated 7 February 2022, this doesnt mean that it was sent to 
us on that day. And we never received this until 2 March 2022. Which would imply it was 
sent to us at some point after the day Mr L completed it. While I appreciate that Mr L posted 
this form to us, he was also able to complete the Complaint Form on our website and submit 
this electronically, or call us to raise his complaint, either of which would guarantee same 
day receipt.
Mr L hasnt said that he never received a copy of SMFs final complaint response letter, so 
Im satisfied that he was aware of the deadline for bringing his complaint to us. However, he 
didnt do so, and from the comments hes made, theres no overriding reason why he 
couldnt do this. 
As such, I dont think there are exceptional reasons for considering this complaint out of 
time. And, while I know this will be disappointing to Mr L, Im in agreement with the 
investigator that the complaints answered by SMF in their letter of 10 August 2021 arent 
something we have the power to look at.Turning now to the phone conversation Mr L had with SMF. I appreciate the depth of feeling 
that Mr L has about this call, and how he was treated. And I understand why he feels this 
was unfair. I can also see that, if SMF were denying what was said on the call, then this 
could be seen as them deliberately withholding evidence.
However, this isnt the case. And SMF have accepted that they treated Mr L unfairly on this 
call, and that their advisor was unprofessional. As such, while its unfortunate that a call SMF 
had available to listen to in April 2022 was no longer available in August 2022, Im satisfied 
that I can reach a fair decision without having to listen to this call.
Mr F has explained how he was treated on this call, and SMF havent denied it. So, for the 
purposes of this decision, Im taking Mr Fs testimony at face value. And Im satisfied that he 
wasnt given a fair opportunity to discuss a mutually agreeable repayment plan on this call.
However, Ive seen SMFs case notes and these show that Mr F spoke to them about 
arranging a repayment plan on more than one occasion. So, the call in question wasnt his 
only opportunity. And, as its my understanding that the agreement is still live, Mr F can still 
arrange a suitable repayment plan with SMF.
I would also expect SMF to treat Mr Ls financial position with forbearance and due 
consideration when arranging any repayment plan.
But this doesnt mean that Mr F wasnt both outraged and upset by what was said on the 
call, and hes explained how this made him feel. Ive seen that SMF have now offered him 
£300 compensation for this, which is what I wouldve asked them to pay, if no offer had been 
made. So, I wont be asking them to increase this. However, SMF have said that this amount 
could be applied against the outstanding balance on Mr Ls account. While this can be done 
with Mr Ls express permission, I dont think its fair that they do this otherwise. And it should 
be paid directly to Mr L if he wants this.
So, if the £300 hasnt already been paid, its now for Mr L to decide whether he wants to 
accept this or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman