DRN-2773347
The complaint
Mr K says XTB Limited (XTB) did as follows:
Did not disclose to him the high level of risk in the Contracts For Differences (CFD) 
trading account he opened last year; and did not disclose to him the 
charges/commission (especially for holding positions overnight) associated with the 
trading. [issue 1]
Defrauded him out of around £20,000 in the course of a long Oil position erroneously 
opened in his account on 21 April 2020 (which he did not open); in terms of its delay 
in rectifying the error; in terms of its response to the error after the position had been 
closed/stopped and a loss of around £20,000 had been incurred; and in terms of 
preventing him from withdrawing his funds. [issue 2]
XTB disputes the complaint and Mr Ks allegations.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He found, mainly, as follows:
He was satisfied with evidence of warnings about the high risks of CFDs given to    
Mr K  during the account application process (including standard content in XTBs 
emails to him, informing him that 77% of XTBs retail clients lost money trading 
CFDs); in the Risk Disclosure Notice (RDN), which informed him about the same 
high risks and about the risk of losing his entire account balance; and in the terms he 
agreed for the account.
He was also satisfied with evidence that Mr K was informed about the charges and 
commission associated with trading  alongside information on how trading worked  
within the terms and execution policy he confirmed reading, understanding and 
agreeing. 
He referred to the Oil trade, to Mr Ks allegations that its placement (long) was in 
error and that the execution price was also wrong because the market had not 
reached that price. However, he found that tick data evidence shows that the price 
(15.75) was within the range quoted at the time of the execution, so he was satisfied 
that the trade was correctly filled. In terms of the allegation that the position had been 
wrongly opened and Mr Ks claim that he did not know how to manage the position, 
pending XTBs treatment of his query, because he was unsure whether it was long or 
short, the investigator noted that XTB told Mr K to be led by what the platform was 
showing  which was that the position was long. He also noted that XTB made clear 
that it could not indicate when his query about the position would be addressed. 
Overall, the investigator considered that, having lodged his query and having been 
told by XTB to rely on the platform pending its decision on the query, it would have 
been reasonable for Mr K to manage the position as depicted on the platform, as 
opposed to assuming an error that had not yet been established.
Mr K disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ks allegations about being misinformed  or not being informed at all  about the high 
risks, charges and commissions associated with the trading account, at the outset, prompts 
consideration of the appropriateness of the account for him. I address his specific allegations 
about absent risk and charges/commission notices further below. First, I address whether (or 
not) XTB discharged its regulatory obligation towards him to assess the appropriateness (or 
otherwise) of the account for him. 
The regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) sets out the rules on 
appropriateness. Under COBS 10A appropriateness must be assessed by a firm, based on 
information from a client, in order to determine whether (or not) the client has sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the service or product offered 
by the firm. This applies in the context of a non-advised service, as was the case for Mr Ks 
account. In assessing appropriateness, the following information is relevant:
Information about the type of service(s) and investment(s) the client is familiar with.
Information about the nature of the clients experience in the familiar service(s) and 
investment(s).
Information about the clients profession or the level of the clients education.
There is documentary evidence of the appropriateness assessment conducted by XTB for 
Mr K. In addition, copies of recordings of telephone calls made during his account 
application process  and during which appropriateness was being addressed  have been 
shared with this service and have been listened to. Overall and on balance, I am satisfied 
that the information provided by Mr K to XTB made it reasonable for XTB to conclude that 
the account was appropriate for him. Noteworthy evidence includes Mr Ks confirmation  
during one of the telephone calls  that he had over 10 years worth of professional 
experience in trading derivatives and that he had a postgraduate qualification in finance. It is 
also reasonably clear from his enquiries (such as those in which he debated leverage 
allowances with XTB) at the time that he was a well informed and experienced applicant who 
understood the risks involved in trading within the account.
In terms of high-risk warnings and disclosures about charges and commission, I endorse the 
investigators findings. There is reliable evidence that high risk warnings were prominently 
given, as standard, in the under-signature section of XTBs emails, including such emails 
sent to Mr K before, during and after the opening of his account; were prominently presented 
on its website and trading platform, which he used; and were in the RDN issued to him and 
in the terms he agreed. There is also reliable evidence of the terms and order execution 
documentation issued to him in which the workings of trading and the charges and 
commission associated with that were set out.
Overall and on balance, I conclude that Mr Ks account was not inappropriate for him and 
that there is no merit in his complaint under issue 1.
As the investigator noted, the crux of the complaint appears to be issue 2 and the loss Mr K 
incurred in the Oil trade. 
First, I should note that there is no evidence of a withdrawal request from Mr K that was 
declined by XTB. He has argued that the implication of what happened with the Oil trade 
was that he could not withdraw his funds. However, as I address below, if he wanted to withdraw his funds at the time  which is not so clear from the evidence  any inability he 
faced resulted from his failure to mitigate, not from any action or inaction by XTB.
I should also note that there is no available evidence that the trade was placed by anyone 
other than Mr K. Evidence of trading activity within his account has been shared with this 
service and it shows that the order origin of the relevant Oil trade was the same as other 
trades placed on the same date, and on other dates. Mr K does not appear to have disputed 
those other trades. Furthermore  and with regards to the notion he appears to have 
presented that he was engaged in trading short at the time, so the long position must have 
been a mistake  the same evidence shows that whilst most of the positions he opened on 
the day were short there were many other long positions opened (and closed) that day, 
opened in the same Oil product and opened in the same time periods. This evidence 
suggests he was placing both long and short Oil trades on the day.
In terms of the alleged pricing error, tick data evidence that has been shared with us shows 
that XTBs ask prices (relevant to the long position) reached 15.72 and 15.77 at the time the 
position was opened, so it follows that the order execution price of 15.75 applied to the 
position was not erroneous. 
The sum of the above findings is that, according to the balance of available evidence, there 
was nothing wrong with the trade.
As the investigator said, Mr K queried the trade, XTB undertook to look into it and made 
clear that a response time could not be given. Nevertheless, in the  interim and in response 
to his claim that he could not manage the trade because he did not know if it was long or 
short, XTB expressly told him that was not the case because the platform showed what the 
position was (long) so he could manage it based on what the platform showed. 
As stated above, nothing appears to have been wrong with the trade. XTBs conclusion of 
the same, after looking into Mr Ks query, appears to have been correct. Prior to that 
conclusion, the existence of the open trade in Mr Ks account was his to mitigate, pending 
resolution of his query/dispute.  He suggests that he did not want to affirm or accept 
responsibility for what he considered an erroneous trade at the time. However, in his case, I 
do not consider that closing a disputed trade  in order to avoid a potentially negative 
outcome  whilst also complaining about it would have amounted to affirmation of the error 
he claimed at the time. In addition, the error was alleged to have taken place in the opening 
of the trade, so closing it for the above reason would have served to mitigate detriment from 
the alleged error and would arguably have been a distinct matter.
I agree with the investigators observation that Mr K appears to have treated the trade as 
erroneous before that status had been established. That was not reasonable in the 
circumstances, that did not discharge his duty to mitigate and if he wanted to withdraw his 
funds at the time that was the reason why he could not do so  his money was locked in a 
trade he disputed but failed to close at the earliest opportunity, despite being able to do so.
The fraud alleged by Mr K is a matter of criminal law, which is beyond this services remit. 
However, based on the balance of available evidence, I do not consider that XTB unduly 
deprived him access to his funds in the above matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman