DRN-3506420
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as Tesco Bank Box 
Insurance (Tesco) mishandled his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Tesco, I refer to the above insurance company and I include employees and 
others insofar as I hold that company responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
For the year from early May 2021, Mr F had his car insured on a Tesco telematics or black 
box policy. His father and mother were covered as named drivers.
In mid- September 2021, the box flagged that Mr F had driven at a speed more than 20 mph 
more than the speed limit that it incorrectly applied to the road he was on. 
Mr Fs father complained to Tesco that its data and its communications were incorrect. By a 
final response dated mid-October 2021, Tesco upheld the complaint in part. For the trouble 
and upset caused by some shortcomings in its communication, it offered £40.00 
compensation. Mr F brought his complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator at first didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
that Tesco had done enough to resolve the complaint. 
Our investigator changed his view and recommended that the complaint should be upheld.
He thought that Tesco held out of date information and caused Mr F distress and 
inconvenience. The investigator recommended that Tesco should pay Mr F £150.00. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. On Mr Fs behalf, his father says, in summary, that:
4 separate incorrect communications harassed, bullied and intimidated his son. The 
communications threatened an unspecified action unless he stopped speeding. He 
was 17 at the time and became anxious, upset and scared. 
The salutation of the letter used only a surname. which is disrespectful, 
unprofessional and rude.
Tesco suggested that his bonus miles would be updated and reviewed bi-monthly on 
his portal. There has been no evidence or communication from Tesco regarding the 
promised bi-monthly reviews.
The speed data function within the portal is inflexible, inaccurate and unclear.
Other road users on the stretch in question may also be affected by the incorrect 
speed limit data.
Tesco have misled him and us as to where they obtain their information. 
Tesco also disagreed with the investigators opinion. It also asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. It says, in summary, that:
It is unreasonable to expect insurers to always have the exact speed limit for every 
road the second a speed limit is changed.
It is reasonable to have a process in place that corrects any errors in a quick and 
professional manner, making sure this does not affect the policyholder moving 
forward, which in this instance it has done. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service looks at a consumers complaint against a regulated 
financial firm. Where we find that the firm is responsible for an unfair act or omission, we 
look to put right the effect on the complainant. Its not part of our remit to consider the 
possible effect on other consumers nor to punish or deter unfair acts or omissions.
From what Ive seen, the main road in question had sections with speed limits of 40mph and 
50 mph. During a roadside protest and police operation, the county council imposed a 
temporary limit of 20mph. The council removed that temporary limit at the conclusion of the 
operation in September 2018.
Mr F exceeded 40 mph on that road about three years later. 
I accept that Tesco sent Mr F texts, and email and a letter. And I wouldnt have found that 
unreasonable  if Tesco had been correct about the speed limit.
The letter from Tesco to Mr F was dated 17 September 2021. The emailed version of it used 
a salutation with only his second name. But the hard copy used a salutation with only his first 
name. The letter was headed Act now or your policy may be cancelled. It didnt clearly say 
what action was required save please reduce your speed. But the letter said that if Mr F 
exceeded the speed limit again, Tesco would cancel the policy. I find that reasonably clear. 
His father contacted the council about the speed limit. The council replied as follows:
unfortunately we don't have this information on our system. Please check local 
speed limit signage in the area to confirm speed limits of roads.
For your information, all   County Council highways issues and defects will be 
inspected and then any necessary work is planned on a prioritised basis.
If you would like an update, then please feel free to contact us again after 22 working 
days and we should be able to provide more information
Tesco has relied on that reply as showing that the council didnt have information about the 
speed limit. But I read the reply as a holding reply. And  as it was responsible for the road 
and its signage - I find it more likely than not that the council had the speed limits correctly 
recorded on its systems. 
By 24 September, Tesco said the following:the road has been updated and the bonus miles on [Mr Fs] policy will be updated 
bi-monthly...
I accept that Mr F didnt hear from Tesco with any update about his bonus miles, save 
through the box. But he hasnt said that he had a problem keeping within the 10,000 miles 
stated in the policy schedule or that he needed to buy top-up miles. In any event the policy 
expired in May 2022.
I accept that Tesco moved quickly to correct the information about the speed limit. But I dont 
accept that this was enough to discharge its responsibility to provide accurate data. The 
information had been years out of date. Tesco didnt help matters by suggesting that the 
information had come from the council  when in fact Tesco had bought the data from a 
company specialising in satellite navigation.
Tescos final response included the following:
 the red traffic lights will stay as we are unable to change the details in the portal.
From that, I find that Tesco recognised that it wouldve been fair to remove the red traffic 
lights if that had been possible. To that extent, I accept that the portal is inflexible.
Tesco must accept responsibility for the inaccurate data  and for the impact its inaccurate 
communication had on its policyholder. That included feelings of anxiety and injustice.
Putting things right
Overall, I find that it is fair and reasonable for Tesco to pay Mr F  in addition to the £40.00 
already offered - a further £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aioi 
Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as Tesco Bank Box Insurance to pay Mr F  in 
addition to the £40.00 it has already paid  a further £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman