DRN-1902553
 
The complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to cover her credit card repayments.
What happened
Mrs M applied for a credit card by post in 2000. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to 
cover her credit card payments. The policy cost £0.73 per £100 of the balance on Mrs Ms 
credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance 
for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs M was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost 
her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld because he thought Mrs M 
wouldve understood she had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mrs M disagrees. She says she didnt need the policy and if information was clearer she 
wouldnt have agreed to take it.  
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
The PPI was applied for by post in 2000 when Mrs M completed a postal application for a 
credit card. BOS have given us a copy of the application form Mrs M completed. 
Theres a separate section on the application form that deals with PPI. It gives the option to 
select PPI by signing next to the words YES, I want you to arrange Credit Care Insurance to 
protect my repayments. I can see on Mrs Ms application form she has signed next to this. 
If Mrs M didnt want PPI she could have left the section blank like she did for the other 
sections of the form like Card Care. 
So I think because Mrs M selected to take PPI with by signing for it she understood she had 
a choice in taking the policy and wanted the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think BOS advised 
Mrs M to take PPI. What this means is that BOS didnt recommend PPI to Mrs M, it just gave 
her information about PPI (it was up to Mrs M to assess her circumstances and decide if the 
product was needed). This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so she could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if BOS did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if BOS did 
give all the information Mrs M needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, 
I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what we know 
about BOS policies:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms 
and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs M says she couldve used her sick pay to make her credit 
card payments if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness. But the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of this and for potentially longer and covered her if she lost her job. So I 
cant see how knowing this information wouldve put her off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs M and she could cancel 
the policy if she no longer wanted it. 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs M on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
Which means BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But BOS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
When the policy was sold, BOS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. 
Because BOS didnt tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman