DRN-3306452
The complaint
Mrs T complains about HMCA Insurance Ltds decision to turn down her private 
medical insurance claim. Shes also complained about the sale of the policy.
Mrs T is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr T.
What happened
Mrs T took out the policy in 2015. It was sold directly by HMCA on a non-advised basis, 
and HMCA is also now the insurer.
In 2020, Mrs T made a claim under the policy as she needed surgery on her left hip. 
HMCA turned down the claim because Mrs T had undergone a left hip replacement 
before the policy started. It said this meant her claim fell under a policy exclusion.
Unhappy with this, Mr T brought a complaint to this service on his wifes behalf. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for HMCA to turn down the claim. Our investigator also didnt think the policy 
had been mis-sold, as she thought HMCA had provided sufficient information about the 
policy to Mrs T at the time of sale.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 February 2022. Heres what I said:
Claim
The policy says:
Where previous treatment has been received by the member for any joint, either 
before they became a member of the scheme or since joining it, no benefit will be 
payable under this policy in the case of any revision or repeat treatment to that joint.
Before taking out the policy, Mrs T had hip replacement surgery to her left hip. This would be 
considered treatment to the left hip joint. Mrs Ts later claim to HMCA was also for treatment 
to her left hip joint.
As Mrs Ts claim was for repeat treatment to her left hip joint, this falls squarely within 
the above exclusion. Im therefore satisfied that HMCA turned down the claim in line 
with its policy terms.
Sale
Mr T says that he and Mrs T werent made aware of the above exclusion when the 
policy was taken out. He says their understanding was that Mrs T would have cover 
for any condition that existed before the policy was taken out.
Although Mrs T didnt receive any advice from HMCA as to the suitability of the policy, 
HMCA still needed to provide sufficient information about the policy to Mrs T so that she 
could make an informed decision as to whether to take it out. HMCA therefore ought to 
have made Mrs T aware how the policy worked, and brought any significant or unusual 
conditions/exclusions to her attention.
I think this exclusion is unusual for these types of policies, and therefore Id expect it to 
have been brought specifically to Mrs Ts attention before she took out the policy.
Ive read the information provided to Mrs T at the time of sale, including the welcome 
letter, policy benefits leaflet, and key facts document (which specifically refers to the 
policys significant features and exclusions). However, none of these documents refer to 
the exclusion.
Ive also looked at the policy terms themselves, and I see the exclusion is written in 
small print and included amongst 27 other exclusions. I dont think this was clear or 
prominent enough.
The key facts document says that conditions that existed before enrolment arent 
covered, but when transferring from an existing policy, conditions that originated whilst 
the member had cover with their previous provider will be covered.
Before taking out the HMCA policy, Mrs T had held private medical insurance cover 
with another provider. Shed cancelled that policy some months earlier. However, 
because she hadnt had a change in health since that cancellation, HMCA agreed to 
treat Mrs Ts application as a transfer. This meant Mrs T had cover for conditions that 
existed before taking out the HMCA policy.
This is reflected in Mrs Ts membership certificate which includes an endorsement that says:
Benefit is payable in respect of treatment for any acute condition which originates 
after 01/01/1993, the date you enrolled in your previous plan.
Ive also listened to the calls that took place between HMCA and Mr T, when he took out 
the policy for his wife. HMCA didnt mention the exclusion in those calls either. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr T didnt mention his wifes previous hip replacement surgery, I dont think 
he had any reason to do so. He was told that his wife would have cover for previous 
conditions, so quite understandably, he thought this would include her hip problems.
As Ive said, given that the exclusion was unusual, I think it ought to have been brought 
to Mrs Ts attention at the time of sale. As it wasnt, I think the policy was mis-sold.
The next point for me to consider is what redress would be appropriate.
Mr T thinks HMCA should cover the cost of any surgery his wife may need on her hip. 
However, it might be helpful if I explain that the aim of this service is to place a consumer 
back in the position they would have been (as far as possible), if the financial business 
error hadnt occurred.
Ive therefore thought about what Mr T mightve done on his wifes behalf, had the policy 
not been mis-sold. In other words, if HMCA had brought the exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ts 
attention at the time of sale, as I think it ought to have done.
Although Mrs T had held private medical insurance cover previously, shed cancelled 
this some months before taking out the HMCA policy. I understand the reason for that 
was the increasing cost of the cover. Therefore, I cant say that Mrs T wouldve 
remained insured with her previous provider if shed known of the exclusion.Mr T explains that if the exclusion had been brought to his attention, he wouldnt have 
taken out the HMCA policy for his wife. He says that he only took out the policy because 
he thought his wife may need to claim in the future for treatment relating to her hip.
I accept Mr Ts explanation. Whilst theres a possibility that he may have looked into 
taking out private medical insurance with another provider, I think its unlikely he 
wouldve been able to specifically obtain cover for Mrs Ts hip, given that it was a pre-
existing condition.
Although HMCA decided to treat Mrs Ts application as a transfer from her previous 
provider (thereby giving her cover for pre-existing conditions), that was unusual given the 
break in cover, and so I think it unlikely that another insurer wouldve done the same.
Overall, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr T wouldnt have agreed to take out the 
policy for his wife if hed known of the exclusion, and that its also unlikely he wouldve 
taken out cover elsewhere for her. That being the case, I dont intend to require HMCA to 
pay the claim. Instead, I think the most appropriate redress would be a refund of 
premiums, plus interest. Mr and Mrs T can then decide whether they want to cancel 
Mrs Ts policy (if it hasnt already been cancelled).
HMCA says the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) sent to Mrs T at renewal 
in 2019 and 2020 included the exclusion. I havent seen these IPIDs, and so Id be 
grateful if HMCA could provide these in response to this provisional decision. If I think the 
exclusion was adequately brought to Mrs Ts attention at these renewals, Ill likely only 
require HMCA to refund the premiums up to the date the exclusion was first brought to 
her attention.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr T responded and said he would like to know the reason behind HMCA including the 
endorsement in Mrs Ts membership certificate. He thinks this endorsement appears to 
be at variance with the policy terms.
Mr T also said that it seemed inappropriate to cancel the policy whilst they were waiting 
for an ombudsmans decision, but they do intend to cancel it.
HMCA responded and said all its policies are sold on a non-advised basis, which means 
it doesnt highlight any individual exclusions, as it doesnt know which ones will be 
relevant to a customer. It said all the exclusions on the IPID were clearly stated, and it 
provided a copy of the renewal information (Including the IPIDs) from 2019, 2020, and 
2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision that HMCA had added the following endorsement to 
Mrs Ts membership certificate:
Benefit is payable in respect of treatment for any acute condition which originates 
after 01/01/1993, the date you enrolled in your previous plan.Mr T has questioned why this endorsement was added, as he thinks it was at 
variance with the policy terms. 
HMCA added the endorsement to show that Mrs Ts membership was accepted as a 
transfer from her previous policy, which meant she had cover for conditions that 
existed before the HMCA policy was taken out (which would usually be excluded). 
However, this doesnt mean that the other policy terms and exclusions wouldnt 
apply.
HMCA says that because its policies are sold on a non-advised basis, it doesnt 
highlight individual exclusions as it doesnt know which ones will be relevant to a 
customer. However, as Ive said, at the time of sale it ought to have made Mrs T 
aware of how the policy worked, and told her of any significant or unusual 
exclusions. This particular exclusion is unusual for these types of policies, and so it 
should have been bought to her attention. 
HMCA has provided the IPIDs from 2019, 2020, and 2021. Ive looked carefully at 
these and under the section what is not insured? it says, revision or repeat 
treatment to a joint problem. 
Im therefore satisfied that the exclusion was brought to Mrs Ts attention from 2019 
onwards. HMCA will therefore only need to refund premiums up to the date of the 
2019 renewal.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require HMCA Insurance Ltd to refund the premiums Mrs T paid between taking out the 
policy up to the date of the 2019 renewal. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum, from the date each payment was made to the date of settlement.
If HMCA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs T a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman