DRN-4074108
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L complain that Collinson Insurance Services Limited declined their travel 
insurance claim. My references to Collinson include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr L had travel insurance insured by Collinson for a trip abroad. They checked in at 
an airport abroad for their 3pm return flight to the UK.
Mrs and Mr L say Mrs L placed her passport, which was in a pouch, in an airport security 
tray with her other items and passed through security control. Soon afterwards, on the 'air 
side' of security, Mrs L discovered her passport was missing. They returned immediately to 
the security section to search for the passport but neither they nor the security staff could 
find it.
Mrs and Mr L returned to the 'land side' in the airport to continue the search for the passport 
but couldnt find it so their luggage was unloaded from the plane and they didnt take their 
flight home. Soon after the flight left they returned to airport security for a third time to 
discover the staff had found the passport but hadnt made a public announcement. As Mrs L 
then had her passport they booked seats on the 6.20 pm flight that same day for the 
additional cost of €258.00. They claimed on the policy for the cost of the new flight home.
Collinson declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover a temporary loss of passport and 
the policy said the cover was conditional on Mrs and Mr L taking reasonable care to keep 
their passports safe, which they hadnt done for Mrs Ls passport.
Mrs and Mr L complained to us. They said the policy didnt exclude temporary loss and they 
had taken reasonable care of the passport. Mrs L had carried the passport in her zipped 
neck-hung pouch, theyd returned to where they thought theyd lost the passport within 
minutes of discovering the loss, followed by repeated returns to that area to search until the 
security staff found and returned the passport. They want their claim paid, less the policy 
excess.
Our investigator said Collinson fairly declined the claim as he didnt think Mrs and Mr L had 
taken reasonable care of the passport. He said hed expect passengers to notify the security 
staff if the passport wasnt in the tray when it re-appeared through the security check.
Mrs and Mr L disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. They said theyd collected 
their items from the tray including Mrs Ls zip-fastened pouch which they understood 
contained the passport. They thought the passport had probably fallen from the pouch but 
they didnt realise immediately that it was lost.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Im intending to uphold the complaint as I think Collinson unreasonably declined the claim. Ill 
explain why.
The policy terms say:
Passport, documents and driving licence
Events
1. We will pay up to the limit shown in your policy schedule if your passport (is) 
accidentally damaged or lost, stolen or destroyed during your trip.
2. We will pay reasonable extra travel, communication and accommodation costs 
while you arrange a replacement or temporary replacement.
Section conditions
1. You must take reasonable care to keep your passportsafe. If they are lost or 
stolen, you must take all reasonable steps to get them back
The policy terms dont exclude a temporary loss of passport. Even if I thought that a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms meant a temporary loss wasnt covered, in these particular 
circumstances I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Collinson to decline the claim 
on the basis that the passport was only temporarily lost.
Mrs and Mr L could have given up looking for the lost passport and incurred extra travel and 
even accommodation costs while they arranged a replacement or temporary replacement. 
Instead they chose to continue looking for the passport and eventually found it so minimised 
the potential additional costs. The period the passport was lost meant Mrs and Mr L 
understandably couldnt take the flight and they incurred reasonable extra travel costs 
because of the loss.
Collinson highlighted that the policy required Mrs and Mr L to take reasonable care to keep 
the passport safe. I havent seen that Collinsons given a reason as to why they thought 
Mrs and Mr L hadnt taken reasonable care. The fact that the passport was lost, albeit 
temporarily, doesnt mean automatically that Mrs and Mr L didnt take reasonable care. 
The policy doesnt define reasonable care. The test of recklessness we use is set out in the 
leading legal case on reasonable care  Sofi v Prudential Assurance (1993) 2 Lloyds 
Rep.559. For Collinson to be able to reasonably turn down the claim on the basis that 
Mrs and Mr L failed to take reasonable care there needs to be evidence to show they acted 
in a way that amounted to recklessness. That means Collinson needs to show Mrs and Mr L 
recognised a risk but took it anyway by taking measures which they knew were inadequate 
or no measures at all.
Mrs L put her pouch containing her passport in a security tray to be checked by airport 
security which she reasonably believed to be a safe place. From what Mr Ls told us it seems 
the passport may have been lost when Mrs L took out the pouch from the tray and if so the 
pouch may have been unzipped at that time. Even if the pouch was unzipped Ive no 
evidence that Mrs and Mr L knew the pouch was unzipped and it may well be that the 
security staff unzipped the pouch as part of the security checks. Collinson hasnt shown that 
the passport was lost because Mrs and Mr L didnt take reasonable care.The policy also requires Mrs and Mr L to take all reasonable steps to get the passport back. 
Im satisfied from what Mrs and Mr L has told Collinson and us that they did take all 
reasonable steps to try to find the passport which led to them eventually finding it.
In these circumstances Collinson unreasonably declined the claim. I think the fair outcome is 
for Collinson to pay the claim, less the excess as set out in the policy terms, plus interest as 
Ive set out below.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs and Mr L agreed with my provisional decision. Collinson didnt agree, it said:
The passport wasnt lost, but misplaced, probably because reasonable care hadnt 
been taken to ensure the passport was safe. 
The policy said there was cover for extra travel costs while arranging a replacement 
passport but the policy didnt cover the cost of a new flight home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Collinsons response to my provisional decision hasnt changed my mind, I still uphold this 
complaint. 
Even though the passport was eventually found through Mrs and Mr L searching for it, Im 
satisfied that the passport was lost at the relevant time, meaning they couldnt take their 
original booked flight home. Collinson still considers Mrs and Mr L didnt take reasonable 
care to keep Mrs Ls passport safe. But Ive explained in my provisional findings above why 
I think they did take reasonable care and Collinson hasnt put forward any new evidence to 
persuade me otherwise.
Collinson has now raised a new issue  that the policy wording saying it will pay reasonable 
extra travel costs while you arrange a replacement or temporary replacement passport 
doesnt include the cost of a new flight home. Generally, I dont think its fair for an insurer to 
raise a new issue that it wants to rely on to decline a claim at such a late stage in the 
complaint process. In any event, the policy wording doesnt define what travel costs are 
covered and I think a reasonable consumer would understand that the extra travel costs 
would include the costs of a new flight home if theyd been unable to take their original flight 
due to the loss of a passport and had to arrange a replacement. 
Mrs L didnt have to get a replacement passport but thats only because she and Mr L kept 
on searching for the passport and eventually found it. As Ive said above, instead of 
continuing to search for the lost passport they could have incurred extra travel and even 
accommodation costs while they arranged a replacement passport. Instead they chose to 
continue looking for the passport and eventually found it so minimised the potential 
additional costs. The extra travel costs they did incur due to the timing of the loss of the 
passport was the new flight home. Even if the claim isnt covered by a strict interpretation of 
the policy terms, for the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings Im 
satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Collinson to pay the claim as Ive set out below.
Putting things rightCollinson must pay the claim, less the excess as set out in the policy terms, plus interest as 
Ive set out below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Collinson Insurance Services Limited to pay the claim, less the excess as set out in 
the policy terms, plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement.
*If Collinson Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr L how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs and Mr L a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman