DRN-4085497
The complaint
Mrs J and Miss J complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim they made on 
their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J and Miss J held a buildings insurance policy with AXA, when they suffered a blocked 
drain, they hired a contractor to fix the immediate problem and put a claim in to AXA to claim 
back the initial costs.
AXA accepted the claim. Mrs J and Miss J complaint about how it was handled. Namely, 
theyre unhappy with AXAs contractor who Ill call D.
Mrs J and Miss J arent happy with Ds actions in telling them that a new septic tank was 
needed. And theyre not happy with where D advised it needed to be placed. They feel a 
new septic tank wasnt needed and say Ds actions caused them unnecessary distress at a 
time when Mrs Js health was affected because they were worrying about how such a large 
claim would affect their insurance and their home. They were also unhappy with damage 
they said D had caused while at the property.
AXA reimbursed Mrs J and Miss J for what theyd spent in initially fixing the blockage. And it 
agreed a settlement with Miss J and Mrs J for the damage that D caused. Mrs J and Miss J 
didnt want to use D to carry out any further work, so a cash offer was made. But ultimately, 
Miss J and Mrs J withdrew the claim and AXA took no further action. AXA did however offer 
£150 compensation for the distress caused throughout.
Mrs J and Miss J werent happy with this and brought their complaint to us. One of our 
investigators didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought AXA was reasonably entitled to 
rely on what D thought needed to happen to settle the claim. And she thought the 
compensation offered was fair.
But Mrs J and Miss J remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the answer Mrs J and Miss J 
were hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning below. But while Ive considered everything Ive 
been sent; Ill not be commenting on everything thats happened. Rather, Ill focus on what I 
consider the key points.
I understand Mrs J and Miss J feel a large amount of distress could have been 
avoided had AXA not sent D out and just assessed the home emergency part of the 
claim rather than assessing whether any further work needed to be done. But I think 
AXA sending D out was reasonable. Its entitled to assess the work carried out before 
reimbursing Mrs J and Miss J. And importantly its entitled to see if further work is 
needed to limit the risk of a further claim needing to be made.
Ultimately, AXA is entitled to rely on Ds opinion of what needed to happen to settle 
the claim. D can be reasonably considered an expert in their field. I appreciate Mrs J 
and Miss J disagreed with a number of things D suggested needed to happen and 
have supported this with evidence from other contractors and authorities. I think the 
disputes are differing opinions on how to move things forward as opposed to one 
party being right and the other wrong. Im not persuaded any of Ds suggestions were 
unreasonable.
I understand Mrs J and Miss Js worry about having work done they didnt feel 
necessary. And I understand having differing opinions from different contractors 
would add to that distress. But as Ive stated above, Im not persuaded Ds 
suggestions were unreasonable. Even if a new tank wasnt needed at that moment, I 
think replacing it at that point to prevent it needing replacing later was a reasonable 
suggestion.
AXA reimbursing Mrs J and Miss Js initial outlay to fix the blockage and paying for 
the damage caused by D is reasonable and what Id expect it to do.
Its for AXA, via D, to decide what needed to happen to settle the claim, not Mrs J or 
Miss J. But Mrs J and Miss J were under no obligation to have the work carried out. I 
can see ultimately, they decided not to go forward with the claim, a decision they 
were entitled to make. But I think the offer of a cash settlement was a reasonable 
offer from AXA.
I dont feel compensation is due for the distress caused by Ds advice, because I find 
that advice reasonable, even though I acknowledge Mrs J and Miss J disagree with 
it. But I do think compensation is warranted for the damage caused by D, on top of 
simply reimbursing the cost to fix it. Im satisfied £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Miss J 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman