DRN-3928486
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wrongly blocked a 
payment he tried to make through his online banking, and did not treat him appropriately 
when he called about this.
What happened
Mr P held an account with Halifax. He used online banking to transfer a sum of money to a 
family member. Halifax says that the transfer triggered its fraud system, which applied a flag 
to require additional checks before the payment would be released. It sent Mr P a message, 
asking him to call about the transfer.
Mr P called Halifax, but says that it took over four hours to get through to a person. He was 
told that the payment was being checked as part of Halifaxs obligations to protect Mr P from 
scams or fraud. Mr P confirmed that the recipient was a family member, but refused to tell 
Halifax the reason for the payment. He said that it was not a scam, but that the reasons 
beyond this were none of Halifaxs business. He asked the staff member to cancel the 
payment, but was told that this could not be done while the fraud block remained in place. 
He was told that the block could be removed if he answered the security questions or 
attended a branch. This call was ended when the staff member said that they felt Mr Ps 
language became unacceptable.
Mr P called Halifax a number of times after this, and was repeatedly asked the reason for the 
underlying transfer. He refused to provide it, saying that it was none of Halifaxs business. 
He was told that the online account block would remain in place until he attended a branch 
to remove it.
Mr P says that these checks were unnecessary because he had provided the correct bank 
details to transfer the money to. He says that it was his money to transfer as he sees fit, and 
that the reason for the transfer is his own business. He says that the staff members he dealt 
with were rude and unprofessional, and that the way that Halifax treated him was unfair and 
discriminatory.
Halifax says that the payment was caught by its system checks, for proper reasons, and that 
the steps it took were appropriate. It says that the questions are necessary to protect 
customers from fraud, and that the payment would have been released if the questions had 
been answered. It says that its call handlers were not rude or unprofessional and that it has 
treated Mr P appropriately. 
Our investigator thought that the fraud checks were fair and appropriate. They did not think 
that any Halifax staff had been abusive or inappropriate during the telephone calls with Mr P. 
They thought Halifax had treated Mr P fairly.
Mr P did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Halifax has a duty to protect its customers from fraud, or scams, including those which 
involve payments that a customer makes themselves through online banking. The specific 
checks which a bank carries out are sensitive information, which is not made public, but I 
have asked Halifax about the checks which led to this payment being blocked. Having done 
so, I am satisfied that they were not inappropriate or unfairly discriminatory. They were 
standard checks which would apply to most customers.
Halifaxs terms and conditions explain that they can decline making transactions in certain 
circumstances. They also explain that if Halifax blocks a payment, then they may ask a 
customer to provide further information about the transaction before allowing it to go through. 
Thats ultimately what Halifax did here and having seen the information it provided, Im 
satisfied it did so in line with the terms and conditions.
So Ive then considered whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in how it handled this. 
Mr P is, understandably, upset at the idea that his family member might be being accused of 
scamming him. But that is not what happened here. The payment was flagged by the 
system, which catches payments for a variety of reasons. It did not mean that the bank 
thought Mr Ps family member had done anything wrong. But it meant that Halifax felt it had 
to carry out further checks.
I have listened carefully to each of the calls between Mr P and Halifax in relation to this 
matter. Mr P says that it took a long time to get through. Having listened to what he says on 
the calls, I am satisfied that it took him about two hours to get through to a staff member. 
While this must have been frustrating, I am satisfied that he was more likely than not simply 
being placed in a queue with other callers. I do not think that there is any evidence that he 
was being treated unfairly. He then made several calls in reasonably quick succession, so I 
am satisfied that any delay was dealt with, and he could get through quite promptly after that 
first call. I do not think that he was being treated unfairly by having to wait with other callers. 
I have considered the questions which Halifax asked Mr P when he got through. I think these 
questions were intended to get some basic information about the payment and just to 
reassure Halifax that it was genuine. I am satisfied that, without this information, Halifax was 
reasonable to not allow the payment to go through, where its concerns hadnt been 
alleviated. Given that Mr P refused to provide information at every stage, I am satisfied that it 
was reasonable that the payment instruction continued not to be accepted. Given the 
unresolved suspicion of potentially fraudulent activity, and Mr Ps refusal to provide the 
relevant information, I think that asking him to attend a branch to remove the block was also 
fair and reasonable.
I have considered the manner of the calls, and Mr Ps treatment as a whole by Halifax. While 
Mr P alleges that he has been treated in an unfairly discriminatory manner, I am satisfied 
that there is no evidence of this. The flag was fairly applied by the system, and the staff 
members on the calls provided accurate information in a reasonable and professional 
manner. At times, the calls became heated and Mr P did swear and use language that 
meant that Halifax felt it had to terminate the calls  and I think it was entitled to do that. I do 
not think that Mr P was accused of anything inappropriately, nor was he otherwise treated 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
While I can understand the frustration and inconvenience that checks such as these can 
cause, I do not think that Halifax treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably. The checks were fair 
and were carried out in a reasonable manner. I am not going to ask Halifax to do anything 
more in relation to this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman