DRN-1868415
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr D used to have with Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester). Ill refer to the business as C&G throughout and that should be 
taken to mean Lloyds where appropriate.
Mr D says his property wouldnt have been repossessed in 2014 if C&G hadnt charged him 
fees at the time that its now refunded.
What happened
In 2011 C&G was granted a suspended possession order (SPO). The SPO noted the 
arrears were £22,877.34 and ordered Mr D to pay his normal payment plus £100 every 
month. 
Unfortunately, due to his personal circumstances (which I wont go into here to protect his 
privacy), Mr D didnt make all the payments due and by 2014 the arrears had increased to 
around £30,000, so C&G decided to enforce the SPO and repossess the property.
Mr D emailed C&Gs solicitor on 11 June 2014 to appeal for the eviction to be cancelled. He 
said he could pay £3,000 immediately, and then pay his contractual payment plus £200 each 
month until January 2015, and then his contractual payment plus £840 from then.
On 12 June 2014 C&Gs solicitor replied to confirm that wasnt enough and the eviction 
would go ahead that afternoon. It said the only way it could be stopped was for Mr D to pay 
£4,400 before 2.30pm. As no payment was made by then the eviction went ahead and the 
property was later sold.
In July 2019 C&G carried out a remediation exercise and as part of that it paid £1,435.70 to 
Mr D; made up of a refund of fees totalling £997 plus interest.
Mr D instructed a solicitor who complained to C&G. It said the £1,435.70 plus the £3,000 
Mr D offered to stop the eviction adds up pretty much to the £4,400 C&G said it needed to 
stop the eviction. C&G rejected the complaint, explaining the fees werent included in the 
arrears balance so had no bearing on the decision to repossess the property.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Ds solicitor didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service is independent and impartial. My roles to look at whats fair 
and reasonable. Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to 
comment on, or otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms.
If C&G hadnt charged the fees that it later refunded, Mr Ds mortgage balance would have 
been lower than it was when the property was repossessed, but his arrears balance would 
have been the same. Thats because the fees werent included in the arrears balance. So 
even if those fees hadnt been charged (or had been reversed at the time) then the arrears 
balance wouldnt have changed. 
As the decision to repossess the property  and the minimum amount C&G was willing to 
accept to stop that process  was based on the arrears balance (not the overall balance) 
then the charging or not of those fees was entirely irrelevant to that decision. The minimum 
amount C&G was willing to accept to stop the repossession was a lump sum broadly 
equivalent to six months payments.
If the fees hadnt been charged at all then Mr D wouldnt have had that money in his pocket 
instead as he hadnt paid the fees, theyd just been added to the overall balance. And if the 
fees had been charged and the remediation exercise had instead been carried out before 
the property was repossessed then no refund would have been made to Mr D. Thats 
because, as Ive already said, Mr D hadnt paid those fees. Instead C&G would have simply 
reversed the fees off the account as if theyd never been incurred. Either way Mr D wouldnt 
have had any additional money in his pocket to put with the £3,000 hed offered to try to stop 
the eviction.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied the charging of the fees had no impact on C&Gs 
decision to repossess Mr Ds property.
This decision can only deal with the original complaint that was raised with C&G. Since the 
complaint was referred to us Mr Ds solicitor has mentioned some other issues, such as the 
loss of Mr Ds possessions. Our rules state that a business must be given the opportunity to 
investigate and respond to any issues first, so Mr D should refer those to C&G as a new 
complaint if he wants them looked into. Mr D may then be able to bring that as a new 
complaint to this service  subject to our rules  if he remains unhappy with the outcome.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman