DRN-3734072
The complaint
Miss C complains about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) responded under 
her home emergency policy when her boiler broke down. 
References to British Gas in this decision include their agents who provide services under 
the policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Miss Cs boiler broke down, leaving her without heating or hot water. She 
contacted British Gas, who arranged for an engineer to inspect the boiler. When the 
engineer inspected the boiler, he diagnosed corrosion on hydraulic components  but that 
the extent of the corrosion meant it wasnt possible to repair the boiler and it would need to 
be replaced. Miss C was unhappy at this, so British Gas arranged for a second engineer to 
inspect the boiler, and while he was able to get the boiler working on a temporary basis, the 
visit didnt take place for three months. He reached the same conclusion as the first 
engineer.
Miss C was unhappy at what had happened, so complained to British Gas. But they didnt 
uphold the complaint. In their final response, they confirmed the engineers conclusions the 
extent of the corrosion meant they couldnt repair the boiler, only keep it running in a limited 
capacity. The boiler was 17 years old and the corrosion was due to wear and tear. As such, 
British Gas couldnt be held responsible for the issue and so wouldnt replace it. The issue 
wasnt the availability of parts (which is why Miss C hadnt previously been warned about 
that potential issue). However, British Gas did apologise to Miss C for not providing the level 
of service she expected, offering £70 for not being able to offer the second engineer 
inspection within a reasonable time.
Miss C then complained to this service. She was unhappy at what had happened, 
thinking her policy covered repairs to her boiler and  if it couldnt be repaired  that it 
would be replaced. She was also unhappy that a service of the boiler the previous 
September to the breakdown hadnt warned her of the corrosion issue. She had been 
quoted £3,500 for a replacement boiler, which would have a significant financial 
impact on her.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint, concluding British Gas hadnt acted 
unfairly. The terms of the policy meant a replacement boiler would only be provided 
by British Gas if it was less than seven years old  so given Miss Cs boiler was 17 
years old, British Gas were under no obligation to replace it under the terms of the 
policy. The investigator thought the £70 compensation offered by British Gas was fair. 
 
Miss C disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She said the compensation offered wasnt sufficient given she was without a 
working boiler between the first and second visits, causing her financial loss and 
inconvenience. She didnt think British Gas should have continued to charge monthly 
premiums if it couldnt repair or replace the boiler. She also wanted British Gass terms and 
conditions to be made clearer about the service offered and what would happen if a boiler 
couldnt be repaired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Miss C.
The key issue in Miss Cs complaint is British Gass decision not to provide a replacement 
boiler, and that she wasnt warned about the risk of a breakdown (most recently at the 
annual service the previous year). Shes also unhappy at being without a working boiler 
between the first and second engineer visits. British Gas say the extent of corrosion in the 
boiler meant it couldnt be repaired and was due to wear and tear, for which they arent 
responsible. So, they werent under any obligation to replace it.
On the key issue, whether British Gas should have replaced the boiler, looking at what 
happened, the view of both engineers that inspected the boiler was that the extent of the 
corrosion was such that the boiler couldnt be repaired and therefore would need to be 
replaced. Given the boiler was 17 years old, I think its likely to have been affected by its age 
and from wear and tear over the years. And Ive not seen anything to suggest the two 
engineer conclusions were wrong. 
Having concluded the issue was corrosion and the boiler would need to be replaced, Ive 
then considered whether British Gas should have replaced it (as Miss C believes). Looking 
at the policy terms and conditions, there isnt a specific condition that refers to wear and 
tear being excluded. However, there is a specific condition about the circumstances a boiler 
will be replaced, if it cant be repaired. Under the Whats covered section, it states:
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and:
Its less than seven years old; or
Its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been 
continuously covered by us under either warranty or [insurance] product;
These conditions are clear (to pick up one of Miss Cs points) and Miss Cs boiler being 17 
years old would fall outside them and British Gas arent obligated to replace the boiler. So, 
by declining to replace it theyve acted in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Ive also considered what Miss C says about not being told about the [corrosion] issue at the 
time of the previous service (September 2021). The work records Ive seen from British Gas 
do show the annual service in September 2021. But no specific comments about the boilers 
condition. So, its not possible to determine whether the corrosion should have been noticed 
(and/or mentioned to Miss C).
 
But theres no indication of a problem with the boiler at that point, and it didnt break down 
until the following March. In any event, given the terms and conditions above about the limits 
on boiler age for which a replacement would be provided, Miss C wouldnt have been 
entitled to a replacement boiler at the time of the annual service. So, she would always have 
had to replace the boiler when it did subsequently stop working. 
On Miss Cs point about British Gas shouldnt have continued to charge monthly premiums if 
it couldnt repair or replace the boiler, Ive considered this point (though it seems it wasnt 
made to British Gas - or covered in their final response). The policy would have continued unless either Miss C or British Gas chose to cancel it under the relevant terms of the policy. 
Ive not seen anything to indicate this happened, though it may not have been contemplated 
while Miss Cs complaint to British Gas was being considered. And the second visit by the 
engineer to inspect the boiler would, as I understand it, have taken place under the policy. 
So, Ive concluded British Gas didnt act unreasonably in continuing the policy (and collecting 
the associated premiums).
Ive also considered the issue about the time delay between the two engineer visits. British 
Gas accept there was a delay, but the second engineer reached the same conclusion as the 
first. So, given my conclusion about British Gas not unfairly declining to provide a 
replacement boiler, Miss C would have had to obtain a replacement boiler in any event. 
British Gas have offered £70 compensation for the delay in the second visit, which I think is 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman