DRN-3287215
The complaint
Mr G complains about a decision by Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, not to 
uphold a claim he made to them about a barn structure he bought not being provided and 
not being to specification.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr G made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im not persuaded here that there is evidence of a clear breach of contract. Mr G says that 
parts havent been delivered and that the parts were not to specification. 
Parts not delivered
The invoice says Mr G ordered:
Steel work - 45ftL x 25ftW x 18ft to eaves portal frame To include: - Steel Stanchions - Steel
Rafters - Timber purlins -M20 Bolts -M12 Cup Head Bolts - Kit Painted SCF RED - 15 deg
pitch - Tubular Wind Bracing -CE Certificate. 
Box profile PVC tin roofing - 0.7mm - 10% GRP. Qty 1.00 
X4 (SET) Resin Holding Down Bolts & Resin. 
There is no further detail and Mr G says he doesnt have, and was never provided with, a 
delivery note showing a more detailed breakdown.
In an email from Mr G to the supplier on 28 April 2021 Mr G told the supplier that he no 
longer wanted the roof and that was refunded to him.
Mr G says he is missing 6 purlins, 4 wind bracers and a bolt kit and hes explained that he 
hasnt told the supplier about that as they werent answering his calls.
The supplier say they did deliver everything and that Mr G signed documentation at the point 
of supply to say hed received it.
Because there isnt a detailed breakdown of what Mr G should have received, what those 
costs were and what was/wasnt provided when the parts were delivered. I dont think 
Barclaycard were unfair not to uphold Mr Gs section 75 claim as I dont think hed been able 
to sufficiently evidence thered been a breach of contract.
Barclaycard tried to make a claim under VISAs chargeback scheme. They initially refunded 
Mr G his money whilst that chargeback was being processed but when the merchant 
disputed the claim and provided evidence that Mr G had signed for the delivery. I dont think 
Barclaycard could reasonably do any more.
Parts not to specification
Ive not seen evidence that Mr G raised this issue with the supplier so its difficult to clarify 
his concerns. Hes provided photographs of what he says are base plates and has 
positioned a tape measure alongside them. Mr G has also provided plans of the base plate 
that show the dimension of the plate should be 220 x 380mm. Mr G is suggesting the plate is 
undersized.
In the absence of the suppliers comments or expert commentary on that point I think it 
would be difficult to suggest the framework provided was out of size. I say that because its 
not clear if the component measured was one that was delivered and its unclear what 
tolerance there is on the framework dimensions and the exact or any amount of variation.
Im not therefore persuaded that Barclaycard were unreasonable to reject Mr Gs claim and 
Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman