DRN-2651030
The complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC loaded a marker against his name on the 
National Fraud Database. And hed like this removed. 
What happened
Mr D had a credit card with Tesco bank. Mr D had a direct debit set up to pay the full 
statement balance on his credit card on a monthly basis using his current account with a 
third party bank Ill call Bank U. Between March and July 2019 Mr Ds direct debit was 
reversed on a number of occasions  and on a number of these occasions Mr D spent the 
available balance before the payment was reversed.
 
In July 2019 Tesco closed Mr Ds credit card and loaded a CIFAS marker against him for 
misuse of facility. When Mr Ds account was closed he had balance of just over £4,800, 
which was £1,800 over his credit limit.
Mr D complained to Tesco that the marker had been loaded unfairly.
Tesco looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary they said the CIFAS 
marker had been loaded fairly, and they wouldnt be removing it. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Tescos response so complained to our service. He explained that 
the CIFAS marker is having a negative impact on him, leading to increased stress and hes 
been unable to open a bank account.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint. He asked Mr D further questions 
about whether he knew he didnt have sufficient funds in his bank account with U to pay the 
direct debits. Mr D explained that at the time of the returned direct debits hed been 
expecting large payments for building work hed completed. Hed waited for the direct debits 
to go through and wasnt always aware that his direct debits were failing. 
Our investigator concluded that the bank acted fairly in closing Mr Ds account. However he 
thought Tesco didnt have sufficient evidence to meet the burden of proof required for 
CIFAS. In particular they thought Mr D may not have been aware of his actions, didnt realise 
what he was doing was wrong and Tesco dont have good reason to think they suffered a 
loss. So he asked Tesco to remove the CIFAS marker and pay Mr D £250 in compensation 
for the impact of the marker. 
Mr D accepted our investigators thoughts but Tescos didnt. In response they said:
-At the time of the account closure the bank had suffered a loss as Mr D was £1,853 
over his credit limit.
-Mr D repeatedly told the bank he had the available funds to clear the balance, 
however failed to do so. 
-Mr D spent funds that werent his. 
-Mr D had a responsibility to check his available funds. 
-Just because he honoured some of the direct debits doesnt mean he acted 
appropriately. 
As Tescos didnt accept our investigators opinion the case was referred to me for to decide. 
On reviewing Mr Ds case I came to a different conclusion to our investigator. And I wrote to 
both parties on the 13 February 2021 with my Provisional Decision asking them to respond 
with comments by the 1 March 2021. 
Tescos accepted my Provisional Decision. 
Mr D didnt accept  and in summary said:
- He hadnt realised hed reached his credit limit.
- He was very busy at work.
- He didnt have online banking at the time of the transactions. 
- He was reliant on his clients paying him money. 
- Why didnt Tesco block his card and continued to allow him to spend over his limit?
- He didnt act fraudulently. 
As Mr D didnt accept my Provisional Decision Ive reviewed my initial conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I wont be changing the conclusions I reached in my 
Provisional Decision. And Ill explain why below. 
In my Provisional Decision I said:
Mr D accepted our investigators view that Tescos were entitled to close his credit card. And 
Im in agreement with our investigator here. I wont go into much detail  because of both 
parties accepting this part of the view  however Id like to briefly explain why I think Tesco 
have acted fairly. Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds credit card, Tescos were 
entitled to close Mr Ds account at any time by giving at least two months notice. However, 
the terms and conditions also allow, in certain circumstances, for the bank to end the 
agreement immediately. Ive looked at these particular reasons, and Im satisfied that Tesco 
were entitled to apply them in Mr Ds case. 
Ive moved on to consider the loading of the CIFAS marker. 
The marker that Tesco have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  relating to using the account for uncleared effects fraud. What this 
means in practice is using funds which dont belong to the customer. In order to file such a 
marker, the bank isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr D is guilty of fraud 
or a financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion 
or concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.What this means in practice is that Tesco must be able to show that Mr D spent funds that 
werent legitimately his. And secondly, Tesco will need to have strong evidence to show that 
the consumer was deliberately dishonest in doing so  in simple terms meaning that he 
knew the available funds on his Tesco credit card werent his. A marker should not be 
registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show 
deliberate complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker,  the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
Mr D the opportunity to explain the activity on his account in order to understand their level 
of knowledge and intention. 
Ive considered whether Tesco have sufficient evidence to meet this standard of proof to 
load the marker against Mr D. And Im satisfied they have. Ill explain why below:
Ive reviewed the credit card statements Tesco have sent to our service. I can see 
that on six separate occasions, when Mr Ds direct debit was reversed, he spent on 
temporarily available funds. On all these occasions following the direct debit reversal 
Mr Ds balance was over his credit limit. 
On most of the occasions Mr D spent on the funds, prior to his spending his credit 
card was already above the agreed limit. Therefore he had no available funds to 
spend  and on all occasions his spending led to the credit card going further over 
the agreed limit. For example on the 15 March 2019 Mr Ds credit card balance was 
£900 over his limit prior to the direct debit payment. On the same day, and before the 
direct debit was reversed, Mr D spent over £1,650 leaving him more than £2,500 
over his agreed limit. I think this indicates Mr Ds motivation was to gain access to the 
funds made available by the direct debit. 
Ive seen evidence of a number of different notifications sent to Mr D between March 
and June 2019 which informed him that his direct debits had been reversed and his 
account was in default and over the limit. Tesco have evidenced that Mr D was sent 
monthly statements, three default notices, an arrears notice and an over limit notice 
between March and June 2019.
Ive seen a default notice from Bank U to Mr D in July 2019. The letter states that 
Mr D is over his overdraft limit of £6,000. And Ive seen copies of Mr Ds online 
banking log ins for his Bank U account. These show almost daily logs in between 
March and June 2019. Mr Ds provided evidence of invoices he expected to be paid 
during the period  which he explains werent honoured. However I find it surprising, 
in particular because of the regular monitoring of his finances, that Mr D thought 
there would be sufficient funds in his Bank U account to honour the full direct debit 
payments. And he continued to spend immediately after the direct debits were 
processed.
When Mr Ds credit card account was closed in July 2019 he was £1,853 over his 
credit limit. Im satisfied that the main reason Mr D was significantly over his credit 
limit was due to the spending between his direct debit being presented and then later 
being reversed. I understand that although Mr D made an arrangement to pay with 
Tesco following the closure of his account, he still owes just over £4,000. Which is 
over £1,000 more than his credit limit for the card. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr D but for the reasons Ive outlined above Im 
currently thinking of not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Im satisfied that Tesco have met the burden of proof to load a CIFAS marker. I think its more likely than not Mr D was dishonest 
in spending on the funds available on his credit card, and knew that the direct debits would 
be reversed. And therefore he was spending funds which Tesco never agreed to lend him. 
Mr D responded to my Provisional Decision with a number of additional points. Ive 
considered these points below. 
Mr Ds explained that he wasnt aware he reached his credit limit and he didnt have online 
banking at the time of the transactions. For the reasons Ive outlined above Im afraid the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt support Mr Ds response here. Mr D was sent numerous letters 
from Tescos advising him of the current status of his credit card  and clearly showing he 
was over his limit. So I cant agree with him here. Im not sure if Mr D is referring to his online 
banking for Tescos or Bank U, however Ive seen evidence from Bank U that Mr D did have 
access to his online banking at the time and therefore I think its highly likely he knew he 
didnt have sufficient funds available to him to pay his Tesco credit card.
 
Mr Ds also asked why Tesco didnt block his card and allowed him to spend over his limit. I 
understand what Mr Ds saying here  and ultimately this is the action Tescos did take when 
they blocked and closed Mr Ds account. But, Mr Ds arguing Tescos should have done this 
sooner  and if they had done so he wouldnt have spent on the funds that were available to 
him. However, for a number of reasons this doesnt change my outcome. I say this because 
from Tescos perspective it appeared that Mr D was clearing the balance of his account  
and therefore they applied the credit to his account, giving him the available funds. I cant 
see any reason why Tesco would initially question this until a pattern of direct debits being 
returned occurred. And most importantly, whether as Mr D argues, Tescos could have acted 
more quickly here isnt the key question in my opinion. Im satisfied, for the reasons I 
outlined in my Provisional Decision, that Mr D acted in a deliberately dishonest way. And it 
therefore follows I wont be asking Tescos to remove the CIFAS marker here.
Im aware that Mr D has an outstanding balance with Tesco. I understand that he may be in 
financial difficulty and I expect Tescos to treat Mr D positively and sympathetically when 
making arrangements to recover the debt. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman