DRN-3258787
The complaint
Mr W says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has treated him unfairly in 
relation to a transaction on his credit card which paid for lorry hire.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr W used his Barclays credit card to pay £1800 to a company for the 
hire of a lorry. Ill call this company Firm N. The Lorry was supplied by a different company 
which I will call Firm F. Mr Ws friend Mr C was nominated to drive the lorry to deliver 
furniture abroad. Very quickly there were issues with the Lorry including it being older than 
anticipated and not in the condition expected. It then had substantial issues on route and Mr 
W incurred numerous costs for a variety of issues that happened as a consequence. So he 
complained to Firm F and was unsuccessful in agreeing a suitable resolution to what had 
happened. Firm F is now being wound up.
So he took his dispute to Barclays to see if it could help. Barclays says it considered 
Chargeback and the Consumer Credit Act and having done so it didnt think it needed to 
refund the amount paid on his credit card or any consequential losses to Mr W. So Mr W 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Barclays had treated Mr W fairly. And Mr W remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W used his Barclays credit card to pay for the lorry hire. This means Barclays can 
potentially have certain responsibilities to Mr W which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) if certain criteria within 
the Act are met. There is no need for me to go into great detail about how this operates, but 
in summary if the criteria are met Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr W to hold Barclays 
liable for breaches of contract by Firm F, or for any misrepresentations made by it in relation 
to the agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail, a breach of 
contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that 
contract. Misrepresentation is when something is said which is relied upon and transpires to 
be untrue leading to detriment.
Barclays is also a member of a card network which provides card services. And this network 
has rules (the Card Scheme) which includes giving Barclays an avenue for card transactions 
to be disputed, namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Barclays and whether it did 
what it should have, and whether it treated Mr W fairly. This decision isnt about Firm N or 
Firm F which arent parties to this decision as they arent within this services remit in this 
complaint. I hope this distinction is clear.
could Barclays challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr W 
does here, Barclays (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. 
Mr W doesnt dispute that he used his Barclays credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Barclays 
couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr W didnt properly authorise the transaction, 
given what Ive just set out.
Barclays is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through (or continue with) the chargeback process or not. If it 
does go through the process, then it must do so properly. But ultimately the Card Scheme 
has the final say on this process. So Barclays isnt solely responsible for the decision 
whether to refund or not, when going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly 
decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of 
success.
Barclays considered the matter under the Card Scheme rules. There are a variety of defined 
reason codes under the Card Scheme rules for different scenarios. Barclays has said the 
only applicable one for the situation here is service not as described. Barclays said it 
considered this but notes that the lorry was accepted and utilised. So it didnt raise a 
Chargeback because it didnt consider it had a reasonable prospect of success.
Ive considered the scheme rules here and the Chargeback reasons available. I dont 
disagree with Barclays analysis of the Lorry being accepted. Furthermore it is of note that it 
is clear from the card statements Mr W paid Firm N. But it was Firm F that supplied the Lorry 
and Firm F had rejected Mr Ws complaints previously. And the arrangement between Firm 
N and Firm F isnt clear other than to say they are run separately with different directors. All 
in all Im not persuaded Barclayss position was unfair or unreasonable in considering that 
the Chargeback didnt have a reasonable prospect of success and hence it didnt take it 
further. So I dont think Mr W has lost out here because of Barclayss position with regard to 
Chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach of contract or misrepresentation here there are 
some requirements set out in the Act which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits, and having considered that, I think 
on balance that Mr Ws claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the Act is for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Mr W) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods or Services (the Supplier-the Firm F here) as 
well as with the credit provider (the Creditor-Barclays). And this is the crux of this complaint. 
Mr W says that the DCS relationship is in place so Barclays can be held liable for any breach 
of contract by the Firm F.Barclays has raised this issue from the outset noting it cannot be held liable under S75 of the 
Act where the requisite test under the Act (that is the DCS test) isnt met. Barclays points to 
the presence of Mr C and other parties here. And in this case Im satisfied DCS is not met 
because we have a number of parties and corresponding issues.
The Debtor is Mr W as he has the credit facility with Barclays, and he did pay the money to 
Firm N. However he doesnt have a contract with Firm F who supplied the Lorry-Mr C does. 
And he didnt pay Firm F either.
The Creditor is Barclays and it paid Firm N the money which was allocated to Mr Ws credit 
card account. But Firm N wasnt the supplier of the Lorry, Firm F was.
The Supplier was Firm F, but it didnt supply the Lorry to Mr W. It supplied it to Mr C who it 
had a contract with. And it appears it would have been paid by Firm N in some further 
arrangement between Firm F and Firm N as I doubt it supplied the lorry for free. And Firm F 
didnt have any direct relationship with either Barclays or Mr W.
So in this case we dont have the required three-party relationship we have at least a five-
party situation (Mr W, Mr C, Barclays, Firm N and Firm F). Im not persuaded any of these 
parties were operating as payment processors or merchant acquirers (although such parties 
may have been present in addition) and having considered Firm N and Firm Fs directors Im 
not persuaded they meet the definition of Associates as defined in the Consumer Credit 
Act. These being the possible circumstances were more than three parties can be present 
and not break DCS as per the legislation and pertaining case law in this area.
So it is my position that Barclays has treated Mr W fairly here. DCS isnt in place due to the 
presence of Mr C as the Investigator has argued primarily. And I concur with Barclays 
position that DCS isnt made out due to Mr C and the other issues it identified and as Ive 
explained regarding Firm N and Firm F. And consequently whether or not there was 
misrepresentation or breach of contract doesnt make a difference as Barclays cannot be 
responsible in any event under S75. Because DCS is not made out here.
Mr W has argued that he wasnt told of these issues between Firm N and Firm F and that it 
was made out to him he was dealing with one and the same company and accordingly DCS 
is in place. However it needs to be remembered that Barclays is only potentially responsible 
here due to the legislation Ive quoted. If this legislation hadnt been put in place Barclays 
would only have the obligations around chargeback and operating Mr Ws account properly. 
It would not have potential joint and severable liability as it does under S75. And as this is 
the case it is only fair that Barclays is only held responsible where the prerequisites for such 
liability (the criteria for such liability as set out in the Act) are met. And they are not met here. 
Furthermore the test here is what was the situation between the parties as a matter of 
fact/law rather than what Mr W believed to be the case. And the roles of the parties in 
relation to the DCS question are clear and do not conform to the requirements of the Act. Mr 
W has also argued that Mr C was his designated driver and that he was to benefit from the 
contract. However this doesnt mean Mr C didnt agree the contract as the contracting party 
and be shown to be such. And notwithstanding this Mr W didnt pay Firm F who supplied the 
Lorry or agreed the contract to do so with Mr C. So although Mr W will feel he has lost out 
this doesnt mean Barclays analysis of the legal position between the parties is wrong. 
That isnt to say that I doubt what Mr W has described with the issues with the Lorry and the 
numerous consequences of this and costs that flow from these. It is clear he has suffered 
significant expense, inconvenience, and distress with regard to this Lorry hire. But this is not 
Barclays fault or responsibility.So all in all having considered the matter Im not persuaded Barclays has treated Mr W 
unfairly. I dont think the DCS relationship has been shown to be in place for the provision of 
the Lorry. And I dont think Barclayss stance regarding Chargeback is unfair. So I dont think 
Barclays has done anything wrong here which needs remedy.
I can well appreciate Mr Ws disappointment at what has happened and indeed at my 
decision. However Barclays has treated him fairly here and hence his complaint is 
unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman