DRN-3886502
The complaint
Ms D complains about the management and administration by Zopa Bank Limited  trading as 
Zopa of her hire purchase agreement (agreement).
What happened
In June 2021 Ms D acquired a used car costing £12,671.00 under an agreement with Zopa.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Ms D undertook to pay a 
deposit of £299.00 followed by 60 monthly payments of £270.27.
On 30 July 2021 Zopa was able to collect, by way of direct debit, the first payment 
due under the agreement of £270.27.
After the first payment had been collected, no further payments were collected by 
way of direct debit. Instead Ms D made manual payments based on what she 
understood she was required to pay and based on what Zopa informed her she was 
required to pay.
Ms D made the above payments at different times each month, sometimes before the 
monthly contractual due date, some on the monthly contractual due date and some 
after the monthly contractual due date.
Depending on what date Ms D made the payments that she did, Zopa treated them 
as meeting the monthly contractual payment, as a lump sum payment, or as clearing 
arrears.
Ms D asked for a change in her payment due date. This was actioned by Zopa but 
not immediately.
Depending on when Ms D made the payments that she did, and how these were 
treated by Zopa, Ms D was sent a number of notices by Zopa chasing for payment 
and explaining that non-payment could have a detrimental affect on her credit rating.
On 8 August 2022 Ms D complained to our service about Zopas management and 
administration of her agreement.
Ms Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Zopa should pay her £100 for its management and administration of her agreement and for 
its poor communication in respect of the same in both writing and over the phone.
Ms D accepted the investigators view but Zopa didnt. And because Zopa didnt accept the 
investigators view Ms Ds complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Ms D now understands how her account is managed and administered by Zopa and 
that in particular payments made manually on or before a monthly contractual due date will 
be treated (everything else being equal) as a lump sum payment and not as an early 
payment of the next monthly contractual payment. And as a result of this treatment any 
payment made manually on or before the monthly agreement date will not prevent the next 
monthly contractual payment falling due and being payable on Zopas systems.
Now its not for me to interfere with how a business operates. But I dont think most 
consumers would understand that payments made manually and early would be treated in 
the manner that Zopa treats them. Furthermore, there is nothing in the agreement terms and 
conditions explaining that this is how Zopa treats such payments.
I also think that informing a customer that they are in arrears after a monthly contractual 
payment has fallen due, but when the customer has made that contractual payment a day or 
two early, could be said to be both misleading and unfair. And in the particular 
circumstances of this case Im satisfied that Ms D has been caused both distress and 
inconvenience in receiving the notices that she did in this respect.
Given what I say above and given Zopas failure to move Ms Ds payment date in a timely 
manner, I find that Zopa should pay Ms D £100 as recommended by the investigator. And for 
the avoidance of doubt I would add that in finding Zopa should pay Ms D £100 Ive taken into 
account (amongst other things) that Zopa did explain on more than one occasion to Ms D 
that she should make a manual payment only after her contractual monthly payment date 
had passed (to avoid the problems she had been experiencing) and on occasions she didnt 
do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that Zopa Bank Limited  trading as Zopa must pay Ms D £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman