DRN-4053913
The complaint
Mr L has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly by 
continuing to apply charges to his account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr L held and account with NatWest with an overdraft facility. The last limit increase on Mr 
Ls overdraft was in February 2011 taking his limit up to £1,800.
Mr L complained to NatWest that it acted irresponsibly by providing him with and overdraft 
and that the charges applied to his account were unfair as he was struggling financially. 
NatWest said all charges were applied to Mr Ls account correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.  
Mr L was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
A jurisdiction decision was issued on 17 March 2023 deciding that we were unable to look at 
Mr Ls complaint regarding irresponsible lending prior to September 2016 because it was 
made out of time. 
So my decision will only be looking at the merits of Mr Ls complaint from September 2016.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that NatWest acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft fees from December 2017 as Mr Ls statements 
showed that Mr L hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time.
Our adjudicator thought NatWest should put things right by:
Re-working Mr Ls current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2017 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Mr L to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ls credit file, it 
should backdate this to December 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr L, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then NatWest should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Ls credit file. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
NatWest agreed to settle Mr Ls complaint in-line with our adjudicators recommendations. 
Mr L doesnt wish to accept this and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what NatWest has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case after reviewing Mr Ls statements, Im in agreement with our adjudicator that by 
December 2017 it was evident Mr L wasnt managing his overdraft in a sustainable way. 
While Mr L had kept within his overdraft limit from September 2016 he hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance February 2017 and although there were some credits to the 
account, they werent regular and not enough to reduce the overdraft. 
While I accept that during this period there doesnt appear to be any priority bills coming out 
of the account and that the majority of spending was on food and discretionary, non-
committed transactions, that doesnt mean the lending should continue without a review.  
And if NatWest had carried out a proper review of his statements I think it ought to have 
realised it was unlikely Mr L would be able to sustainably repay the overdraft within a 
reasonable period of time.
NatWest has agreed to settle Mr L complaint in-line with this finding and Mr L will be 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by the overdraft facility. I understand 
Mr L would like the lending looked at prior to September 2016 but a jurisdiction decision has 
already been issued explaining we are unable to look at the lending before this.
So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr L to decide whether he now 
wishes to accept NatWests offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr L is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anymore.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman