DRN-2864168
The complaint
Ms K complains that a pair of leather trousers, that she bought with credit provided by 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC, were not of satisfactory quality. She wants Tesco to refund 
the cost to her card. She also complains about the way Tesco handled her claim. 
What happened
In August 2019 Ms K bought a pair of leather trousers online using her Tesco credit card. 
When she decided to wear them, she says she noticed the back pockets werent 
symmetrical  one was 1cm further away from the central seam than the other.
She contacted the retailer, but it said the pockets were as shown in the online photo and that 
the item was no longer within its return period. 
So Ms K contacted Tesco to ask it to refund the money to her credit card.
Tesco investigated but couldnt conclude that a breach of contract or misrepresentation had 
occurred, so it didnt provide her with a refund.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the trousers supplied to Ms K were identical to the photo of the product and that, because 
there were two lines of stitching on the back, this gave the illusion that one pocket was 
closer to the centre than the other. Taking this into account, she thought Tesco had treated 
Ms K fairly.
Ms K didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Ks strength of feeling on this matter. I want to reassure her that I have fully 
considered everything she has told us, but I am not going to respond to every point one of 
the parties has made or to answer every question raised. That isnt because I havent taken 
into account what Ms K has said, but because my role is to focus on what I consider material 
to the outcome of the complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms K, but I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
I will explain the reasons why.
Chargeback
Banks can help settle some disputes between customers and retailers by submitting a 
chargeback request for a transaction. Chargeback is a way for customers to dispute certain 
card payments and is run by the card scheme. A chargeback can only be done for certain 
specific reasons and within certain timescales. Unfortunately, when Ms K contacted Tesco 
about her claim, the 120-day timescale for making a chargeback request had expired.
Tesco didnt attempt a chargeback request because it was outside of the timescales set by 
the card scheme rules. I dont find it made a mistake here or acted unreasonably.
Section 75
In considering whether Tesco treated Ms K fairly, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the time. In this case, 
relevant law includes Section 75, amongst others. Importantly, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather, when I think about 
what a fair way is to resolve Ms Ks complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, but 
that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might 
reach if Ms K pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. This is because, 
our service is an informal alternative to the courts, and it operates under different rules from 
a court.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Ms K has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against the retailer, she can also bring that claim against Tesco provided certain 
conditions are met.
Ms K says the trousers had a fault because the pockets werent correctly aligned. And this 
was not shown, or described, in the online advert.
Tesco didnt find there had been a breach of contract. It considered that the trousers 
supplied matched the description of the advert. And it didnt think there had been any 
misrepresentation because there was nothing in the advert to suggest the back pockets 
should be symmetrical. It also noted Ms K had waited over a year before submitting her 
claim. Based on its investigation, I think it was reasonable for Tesco to conclude that there 
hadnt been a misrepresentation or breach of contract here. It follows that I dont think Tesco 
has treated Ms K unfairly or unreasonably in not upholding her claim.
Ms K supplied our investigator with more evidence, including photos of the back pockets with 
a tape measure. This wasnt available to Tesco when Ms K made her claim. But Ive looked 
at the photos and I agree with our investigator. I dont think the measurement has been 
taken from the true centre. And I think the photo of Ms Ks trousers shows the same 
alignment of the back pockets as that in the photo of the product. So even if this evidence 
had been available to Tesco when Ms K made her claim, I dont think Tesco could have 
reasonably upheld her claim.
Customer service
Ms K complained about the way Tesco handled her claim and in particular the poor service 
she received when a manager called her. She says he didnt listen to her.
Tesco provided us with a recording of the call. Ive listened to this and I dont find the 
manager treated her unfairly or unreasonably. Its clear Ms K was very frustrated, but theres 
nothing to suggest the manager wasnt listening to her.
I find that Tesco carried out a sufficiently detailed investigation into Ms Ks claim and that it 
dealt with this in a reasonably timely manner. There were some delays in providing the final 
outcome, but that was due to it following up on Ms Ks requests for it to approach another 
retailer for information to support her claim.I accept Ms K has found all of this very distressing but, overall, I find Tesco treated Ms K 
fairly and reasonably and I wont be ordering it to pay her any compensation.
Ms K told us she was unhappy that her credit limit had been reduced. But she will need to 
contact Tesco in the first instance to allow it to investigate her concerns and I cant comment 
on that further in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman