DRN-3311270
The complaint
Mr E makes a number of complaints about The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) following a 
transfer of money.
What happened
Mr E says he tried to transfer £39,000 of his money to a building society I will call C on 14 
December 2021. He says he was asked numerous questions despite providing information 
to Co-op and has made a number of transfers to C in the past. Mr E says the payment took 
two days to complete and he didnt know where the money had gone. He also says Co-op 
has disclosed potentially confidential information to us about other complaints and would like 
to know the legality of such actions. Mr E would like £250 compensation for what took place.
Co-op says Mr E was transferring money to a new account and it sent the money to his C 
account on 15 December 2021. It says the amount was more than it had been asked to 
transfer in the past. Co-op accepts it told Mr E that he would receive a text which was not 
sent and has offered £30 compensation for that which it later agreed to increase to £50.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Co-op has correctly followed its security and fraud process by asking Mr E the 
various questions it did. And that the money was transferred the following day. The 
investigator didnt think it unfair that Co-op has shared information about previous matters 
with us.
Mr E doesnt accept that view and says he was subjected to an interrogation when he tried 
to make the transfer. He says the payment took longer than it ought to have and says Co-op 
has adopted an aggressive attitude to him. He also says his question about disclosure hasnt 
been answered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr E will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about this complaint.
I have no doubt that Mr E appreciates that banks and building societies must have security 
and fraud measures in place and that fraud is a major problem for them. Those measures 
are essential to protect customers and businesses money, but I accept that on occasions 
legitimate customers and transactions are affected.
I have listened to the telephone call between Mr E and Co-op on 14 December 2021. I 
accept Mr E was asked a number of security questions by Co-op but equally I also think this 
was a significant transfer amount of £39,000 to a new account. So, I dont think Co-op acted 
unfairly by asking those questions and have not seen any evidence that it treated Mr E any 
differently to any other customer. Im satisfied that part of the delay in the telephone call was 
caused by what I think was a misunderstanding between the parties. I think Co-op asked Mr 
E for details of a different account held by him which he thought was about his C account 
and Co-op meant other accounts with it. I have listened to that part of the call and am 
satisfied Co-op asked Mr E for the sort code and account number of accounts with us. So, I 
dont think Co-op was responsible for the delay that the incorrect information caused.
Im satisfied that during the telephone call of 14 December 2021 Mr E was told the transfer 
would go through at the latest by 15 December 2021. So, whilst I appreciate Mr E then 
called Co-op back on 15 December 2021 to ask where his money was, Im satisfied that he 
was told the previous day up to how long the transaction may take. Im also satisfied that Mr 
E was told on 15 December 2021 that his transfer was in the process of going through. So, I 
dont think Co-op made a mistake about the time scales involved in the transfer and clearly 
advised Mr E about them.
There is no question here that Co-op didnt send Mr E a text message or call him as it said it 
would. I can see that Co-op has apologised for that and offered initially £30 for the mistake 
and has now agreed to pay £50 which is the amount Mr E asked for during the 15 December 
2021 call. Im satisfied that offer is fair and reasonable, and I dont think that mistake had any 
significant impact or delayed the transfer of money to C.
I appreciate Mr E questions the legality of the disclosures made by Co-op about previous 
matters. I make clear to Mr E that it would be for a court to determine such matters of legality 
and not us. And I have reached my decision based on the circumstances of this case.
Overall, Im satisfied that Co-op was reasonably entitled to ask Mr E the security questions it 
did, and I cant fairly hold it responsible for the misunderstanding about the account 
information. Im also satisfied that Co-op has fairly agreed to pay Mr E a further £20 
compensation and I will leave it to him to decide if he wishes to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman