DRN-2414529
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Barclays Bank UK PLC misled them that it would extend the term of their 
mortgage until they received an inheritance.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest only mortgage in 2008. They say Barclays knew they 
intended to repay the mortgage with an expected inheritance, and agreed to extend the term 
if they hadnt received the inheritance by the time it expired. Mr and Mrs S say, despite this, 
Barclays put pressure on them to repay the mortgage when the term expired in late 2019. 
They say they had to sell the property and downsize, which caused them financial loss, 
stress and anxiety. 
Our investigator said it was unlikely Barclays agreed it would extend the mortgage until Mr 
and Mrs S received an inheritance. Given the uncertainty of an inheritance it was fair to 
decline a term extension on this basis. The investigator said Barclays hadnt treated Mr and 
Mrs S unfairly.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Did Barclays agree to extend the term of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage until they received an 
inheritance?
Mr and Mrs S say Barclays knew from the outset that they intended to repay their interest 
only mortgage from an inheritance. They say it agreed to this and even said it would extend 
the term if they hadnt received the inheritance before the term expired. However, the 
available evidence doesnt support this.
Mr and Mrs S say they told Barclays in 2008, 2014 and 2017 they expected to receive an 
inheritance and use it to repay the mortgage. But this doesnt mean Barclays accepted this 
as a suitable repayment vehicle, or that it agreed to extend the mortgage term until they 
received the inheritance. 
The mortgage application says Mr and Mrs S intended to repay the mortgage using a 
personal pension. At that time Barclays wasnt required to check the repayment vehicle, and 
it wouldnt have known if this wasnt correct. Given Barclays most likely believed Mr and 
Mrs Ss repayment vehicle was a personal pension, I think its unlikely it would give 
assurances about extending the term if they didnt receive an inheritance.
Mr S spoke to Barclays in 2014. He told Barclays they intended to repay the mortgage from 
an expected inheritance. When Barclays asked Mr S what his alternative plan was if the 
inheritance wasnt received before the term expired, Mr S said he had no plans. Barclays 
offered Mr S an appointment to discuss options, which Mr S didnt take up. 
Mr S spoke to Barclays again in 2017. He told Barclays they expected to repay the mortgage 
before the expiry date from inheritances from two family members. Mr S says a recording of 
this call would prove he didnt agree to repay the mortgage by the expiry date, as he didnt 
know when hed receive the inheritances. Mr S says Barclays told him not to worry and it 
would contact him about his options in 2019.
This call recording isnt available. But I dont think it makes a difference that Mr S didnt 
agree to repay the mortgage by the term expiry on this call: Mr and Mrs S had already 
agreed to this when they took out the mortgage. 
When Mr and Mrs S took out the mortgage they agreed to repay it when the term expired in 
late 2019. I havent seen any evidence that Barclays agreed to extend the term, or that it 
gave assurances that this would be offered if Mr and Mrs S hadnt received an inheritance by 
the end of the term. 
Should Barclays have agreed to extend the term of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage?
There were significant changes to the rules on mortgage lending in 2014, following the 
mortgage market review. The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in 
its rules that it expects stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only 
mortgages, repayment strategy before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages.
Theres an exception to this which might have allowed Barclays to extend the term of Mr and 
Mrs Ss mortgage, despite any concerns about affordability or the repayment strategy, if it 
would be in their best interests. I should say that this doesnt mean Barclays cant consider 
affordability, and ask for information from Mr and Mrs S to do so. It can fairly take this into 
account when considering whats in their best interests. I should also say that while the 
exception allows Barclays to agree to vary the mortgage despite concerns about affordability 
it isnt required to do so. It could still fairly decline to extend the term for another reason. 
In mid-2019 Mr and Mrs S discussed their options with Barclays. Barclays said a term 
extension wasnt affordable and a possible inheritance from living family members wasnt an 
acceptable repayment vehicle. I dont think Barclays was unfair here. Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances were unlikely to improve, except in that they expected to inherit some money. 
The timing of this was uncertain. And Barclays couldnt be certain about the amount Mr and 
Mrs S might inherit. There was no guarantee theyd be able to repay the mortgage by the 
end of an extension, or at all. I dont think its fair or reasonable to say that Barclays should 
have extended the mortgage term on this basis, especially given that Mr and Mrs S were in a 
position to sell their property and downsize.
Did Barclays pressure Mr and Mrs S about the sale of their property?
Mr and Mrs S decided to repay their mortgage by selling their property. However, their sale 
didnt complete before the mortgage term expired. I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays 
to ask Mr and Mrs S for information about the steps they were taking to repay the mortgage, 
including details of the estate agent that was marketing their property. The first agreed sale fell through and Mr and Mrs S asked for more time to sell. Barclays 
asked for income and expenditure information. I dont think this is unfair. Barclays had to 
check agreed monthly payments were affordable. Barclays agreed a period for Mr and Mrs S 
to sell the property and their sale completed within this time. I think this was fair. I dont think 
Barclays is responsible for the price at which Mr and Mrs S agreed to sell their property. 
I dont think Barclays treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly, and I dont think its fair and reasonable 
to require it to pay compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman