DRN-2735084
The complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a default against his personal loan
and then passed the account to a collection agent.  
What happened
Mr N suffered financial difficulty due to a change in occupation. This resulted in him being
unable to meet the monthly repayments for his loan.
He contacted Barclays and an arrangement was made with them to extend the loan term if
Mr N made the next two repayments. This was confirmed in writing. The letter stated the
importance of making these repayments otherwise they would not extend the loan term.
The first repayment was made but the second repayment was not and so the loan extension
was not granted.
Barclays sent further letters over the next few months to confirm the arrears on the loan and
then sent a notice of default. Mr N contacted the bank about the default  he believed this
was a mistake because he was still making payments. Barclays said they would investigate
and call him back, but they didnt.
The account defaulted and was transferred to a collection agent. Mr N complained that he
hadnt had the call hed been promised to discuss the default. He said he wanted the default
to be removed and he did not want to speak to anyone in a collections agency.
Barclays accepted that they did not ring Mr N and offered £100 to reflect this but maintained
that the information (default) relating to this account was correct and that Mr N was warned
of the impact of not making up arrears on the account. Barclays have since taken back
control of the loan from the collection agent and a new arrangement is in place.
Mr N referred his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Mr N was given detailed
information about the arrears on this account and that Barclays have to record the default
with credit agencies as they have to accurately reflect the payment history. She also said
that Barclays were entitled to pass the loan to a debt collection agency and that the offer of
£100 was fair in reflecting the impact their mistake had had in not contacting Mr N when they
said they would.
Mr N did not agree. He said the opportunity to address the situation had been taken away
from him when he didnt get the call hed been reassured of. He also questioned why
Barclays transferred the loan to a collections agent and then back again.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties accept that Barclays shouldve rang Mr N when they said they would. So, what I
need to consider now is what wouldve happened had Barclays rang Mr N and whether this
wouldve made a difference to the outcome
.
I asked Barclays what wouldve happened if they rang Mr N. Barclays said that their
collections team may have been able to agree a new arrangement to repay the loan arrears
over a period of time (eg 12 months), in addition to him continuing to pay the usual
contractual monthly payment and a full income and expenditure assessment wouldve
needed to have been completed, to ensure the total repayment amount was affordable for
Mr N.
I arranged for Barclays to contact Mr N to determine his income and expenditure. This would
be reflective of his circumstances now as opposed to when they shouldve rang him. But as
an arrangement would be over a specific time period (eg 12 months) then if Barclays had
rang Mr N back then this arrangement would be in force today and so would need to be
affordable throughout the specified timeframe.
After Barclays completed the income and expenditure assessment for Mr N, they confirmed
that Mr N had enough monthly disposable income to have arranged a plan to repay the
arrears in addition to his contractual monthly repayment.
So, in these circumstances I think it would be fair to Mr N to ensure hes put back in the
position that he wouldve been in had Barclays rang him back. As Barclays have confirmed
they wouldve been able to come to an arrangement with him then this wouldve avoided the
default being placed on his credit file.
Barclays have said that Mr N had plenty of time to ring them back after they didnt ring him
as promised. Im not persuaded that the onus should be placed on Mr N for an action
Barclays promised to complete.
Its also of note that Mr N has been making his contractual monthly payments every month in
full and on time after the default. So Im satisfied that its only fair that his credit file is
updated to remove the default for the reasons Ive already given.
Although Barclays were within their rights to pass the outstanding balance to a collections
agency in line with their terms and conditions, this would have been avoidable had the
arrangement been put in place. While Barclays currently do manage the outstanding debt as
this was passed back from the collections agency, this will have been a frustrating
experience for Mr N to endure and I also think its fair if Barclays acknowledge the impact
this wouldve had on him.
Barclays offered Mr N £100 for them not giving him a call back. Im not persuaded that this
covers the impact that the events had on Mr N. I say this as the lack of phone call set in
motion a chain of events which included the outstanding balance being passed to a
collections agency and then Mr N got involved to ask for this to be passed back. This willve
been a distressing time for Mr N so its only fair that Barclays recognise the impact that this
wouldve caused him. I believe £200 would better reflect the impact Barclays actions had on
him.
Barclays have said that as the loan was with their recoveries department that the
outstanding balance would be paid off quicker as interest isnt being charged. But, if we are
to go back to what wouldve happened if the original call was made then an arrangement
would include interest, so its reasonable for Barclays to charge interest retrospectively on
what the outstanding balance/arrears were at the time. Mr N needs to note this.To summarise, its important that Barclays ensure that Mr N is put back in the position that
he wouldve been had Barclays rang Mr N back. A default wouldnt have been placed on his
credit file and the outstanding debt wouldnt have been passed to a collections agent. And so
it follows Ill be asking Barclays to put things right by removing the default on his credit file,
making an arrangement for the outstanding arrears  interest can be charged in line with the
original loan agreement and for Barclays to pay Mr N £200 for the impact the events had on
him after Barclays didnt ring him back.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclays accepted the provisional decision. Mr N also accepted the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision but Barclays have said that due to a 
systems issue, they may need to take some additional steps to follow the recommendations 
in my provisional decision. Barclays has explained that in the circumstances, it will likely be 
necessary to offer Mr N a new loan facility on terms no less favourable than his current loan 
in order to remove the default. So while Barclays may have to take some additional steps 
here, Im satisfied that these are in line with the outcome I recommended in my provisional 
decision.
So as both parties have accepted my provisional decision then my final decision and 
reasoning remain the same. It follows that Ill now be telling Barclays that this is what it 
needs to do to put things right here. But, in doing so, Barclays will need to contact Mr N to 
ensure any new loan is set up and that the default will be removed from his credit file. 
Mr N has said that hes received correspondence that Barclays will be transferring his loan to 
a third party debt agency and this has concerned him. But as Barclays will be contacting him 
to arrange a new loan through them, then the original loan which may be passed to the third 
party will be settled and the default removed from his file. Mr N should continue making any 
contractual payments until this happens.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I suggested Barclays should pay Mr N £200 for the impact the 
events had on him after Barclays didnt ring him back and Im still satisfied this is a fair 
outcome for the reasons given previously.
I also said that Barclays should put things right by removing the default on his credit file and 
making an arrangement for the outstanding arrears (interest can be charged in line with the
original loan agreement). Barclays should contact Mr N to make the arrangement and then 
they can settle the current loan and remove the default from his credit file.
 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr N £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused. Barclays Bank UK PLC should also remove the default on 
his credit file and come to an arrangement with Mr N to deal with his outstanding arrears 
(interest can be charged in line with the original loan agreement as set out above). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021. 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman