DRN-3217604
The complaint
Mr N complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) refused to pay a cheque.
What happened
Mr N sent a cheque, for £8,000, to another of his accounts at a different bank. Barclays 
didnt pay this cheque, and sent Mr N a letter to say the cheque hadnt been signed in 
accordance with the mandate.
Mr N called Barclays five times to find out the reason his cheque hadnt been paid and each 
time he was told the cheque wasnt signed according to the mandate. Mr N visited a branch 
and was told his signature wasnt on record  it had been deleted at some point.
Mr N completed a form to get his signature back on record and his cheque was 
subsequently paid.
Mr N complained to Barclays and it responded to say Mr Ns signature had been removed 
for unknown reasons. Barclays offered Mr N £50 to apologise for the mistake. Barclays later 
increased this offer to £75.
Mr N wasnt happy with this response, and brought his complaint to this service. Mr N said 
hes never had a cheque bounce in 49 years of banking with Barclays. Mr N also said he felt 
Barclays was just showing off its power by bouncing the cheque.
An investigator looked into things and thought Barclays had made mistakes. Barclays had 
removed the record of Mr Ns signature and should have told him this, rather than say the 
cheque wasnt signed in accordance to the mandate.
The investigator thought the £75 Barclays had already offered was a fair amount to 
compensate Mr N for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused by Barclays error.
Mr N disagreed. Mr N feels Barclays has lied to him when it says it lost his signature. Mr N 
says he often issues cheques of this amount, which are paid, and theres no reason this 
cheque should have been stopped.
Mr N feels a payment of £800 would be fairer, and the £800 should be taken from the 
employees wages. Mr N thinks Barclays intentionally bounced the cheque out of pure 
nastiness.
Unable to resolve things, Mr Ns complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see the strength of feeling Mr N has about his complaint. Ive also listened to the clear 
distress this episode has caused Mr N and the distress hes experienced following the 
investigators assessment.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr N, and Im aware of the potential 
further distress this will cause him, but Im reaching the same outcome as the investigator.
Mr N asked that I listen to the call he had with the investigator, and I have. Mr N wanted a 
response to each of the points he raised.
Theres no dispute Barclays made an error. Barclays, at some point, deleted Mr Ns 
signature from its records. Im aware Mr N doesnt think this is true, but I think it is.
Barclays has explained to this service what happened, and Im persuaded this is the truth.
I acknowledge Mr N has written confirmation the issue was the cheque not being signed in 
accordance with the mandate, but I think Barclays made an error here too.
I also think Mr N was told, on all five calls to Barclays, that the cheque was returned because 
it wasnt signed in accordance to the mandate. Its likely the people Mr N spoke to were just 
reading the letter Mr N had already been sent, and repeating the wrong information.
This meant the original error on the letter was compounded several times. Barclays was 
repeating the incorrect information to Mr N. But just because the incorrect information was in 
writing, and repeated several times verbally, doesnt make it correct.
Generally, a message of not signed in accordance with the mandate either means theres 
less signatures than there should be, or the signatures dont match. Neither of these are the 
case for Mr N.
Barclays refused to pay the cheque because it didnt hold a copy of Mr Ns signature at the 
time. Its reasonable for Barclays to check large cheques, so I dont think it did anything 
wrong in checking. And since Barclays had, at that point, no record of Mr Ns signature its 
reasonable it declined to pay the cheque.
Barclays has admitted it had Mr Ns signature before and then removed it, and this removal 
was around two years ago. This is poor service and a clear error on Barclays part.
It was only when Mr N visited a branch a staff member carried out a full investigation. They 
realised there was no signature on record for Mr N. The branch was able to tell Mr N the real 
reason his cheque bounced and updated his signature.
Im glad to see Mr Ns signature has since been updated, and Barclays now has a record 
again.
Mr N says hes issued lots of cheques over the past 24 years, for similar investments. This is 
the first time Barclays has bounced a cheque. I realise how frustrating this is for Mr N, 
previous cheques have been paid and this one wasnt.
But Barclays had a record of Mr Ns signature for 22 of those 24 years, so it was unlikely to 
bounce any cheques whilst it had Mr Ns signature on record.
And not every cheque for a large amount is checked, but this one was. I can see large 
cheque have been paid in the two year period Barclays had no signature, but this doesnt 
mean Barclays was wrong to not pay this particular cheque.As Ive already explained, its reasonable for Barclays to make sure the cheque is valid and 
signed correctly. Barclays couldnt check this, so it returned the cheque. I dont believe 
Barclays intentionally returned the cheque or acted out of spite.
I think Barclays followed the correct process considering the information it had at the time. 
The information was incomplete at the time, there was no signature on record, and this was 
Barclays fault. But I think this is an error with the process rather than something done on 
purpose.
As frustrating as this is for Mr N I dont think Barclays made a mistake in returning this 
cheque even when Ive considered the previous cheques Mr N has written and were paid.
Mr N feels a payment of £800 is fair in the circumstances and should be taken from the staff 
members salary. I cant punish businesses or individual staff, so I wont be asking that any 
award to Mr N is taken from someones salary.
I also think that £800 would be an unfair amount for Barclays to pay in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Ns complaint.
I acknowledge Mr N has found this situation very distressing, but Im not sure Barclays could 
know its error would have this effect on Mr N. Barclays made a mistake, but acted quite 
quickly to fix it by updating the signature and paying the cheque soon after it had bounced.
I also cant see there was any financial loss to Mr N and since the cheque was going to 
another of his accounts, I cant see there was any reputational damage either.
Our awards tend to be quite modest and, considering all the circumstances of Mr Ns 
complaint, I think the offer Barclays previously made of £75 is enough to compensate Mr N 
for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold Mr Ns complaint, and Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr N £75 
in compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman