DRN-1774750
 
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Black Horse Limited (Black Horse), trading as Land Rover Financial Services. He also says 
the car was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the quality of the car
The car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr D. The car here 
was about two and a half years old and had only completed about 20,264 miles when it was 
supplied. So, I think a reasonable person would expect some wear and tear.
Mr D didnt complain to Black Horse until hed had the car for 20 months, so I think, given the 
time that had elapsed, it was for him to demonstrate that the faults he complained of were 
present when the car was supplied to him.
I think its reasonable to suggest tyre pressures will reduce over time and that tyres will need 
to be reflated. Im not persuaded, on the evidence provided, that there was anything wrong 
with the tyres on Mr Ds car when he took receipt of it.
I can see that the dealership identified that the cause of the airbag failure was a loose 
connection. They resolved this for Mr D, but Im not persuaded theres evidence this fault 
was present when he collected the car as I dont think the car would passed its MOT if that 
was the case and because the warning light would have been likely to have shown, and to 
have been reported, earlier.
The business has explained that the oil dilution problem is a result of the failure of the car to 
regenerate the diesel particulate filter (DPF). Theyve explained that occurs when journeys 
are short and engine gasses dont reach the temperature required to regenerate the filter. 
I think thats normal for a diesel car and I dont think the oil dilution is a problem with the 
vehicle or a fault that was present when the car was supplied.
misrepresentation
If Mr D was not told something that, if he had been told, would most likely have changed his 
decision to enter into the deal. Id think the deal had been misrepresented to him and Id ask 
Black Horse to take some additional action.
Mr D says he should have been told about the need for longer journeys to allow regeneration 
of the DPF. But Im not persuaded that if he had been he would not have agreed to finance 
the car. I say that because I think its reasonable to say DPF regeneration is a necessity in 
most diesel vehicles. So, if Mr D wanted a diesel car he would have had to manage that 
problem. Its not a problem that I think would reasonably put someone off buying a car.
So, I dont think there is evidence that this car was mis-sold to Mr D and overall Im not 
asking Black Horse to take any additional action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman