DRN-4063114
The complaint
Miss B has complained that a car she acquired, using finance from Arval UK Limited, was 
not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2020, Miss B entered into a finance agreement for a new car. Unfortunately, the 
car diesel particulate filter (DPF) failed in August 2021. This was replaced at the dealership 
in September 2021. But a year later, in October 2022, the DPF failed again, and the engine 
management light was illuminated on the dashboard. Repairs were carried out in November 
2022.
Since then, the car went back to the garage in March 2023, where a further replacement of 
the DPF was carried out, and historic fault codes were removed.
Miss B has explained that she doesnt want to reject the car, but she would like 
compensation. Arval has offered her £394.74 (the equivalent of a months repayment).    
Miss B feels this is too low, and that around £5,000 would be more appropriate, given what 
shes been through.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought the offer of £394.74 was 
fair. This was because Miss B had been provided with a courtesy car on one occasion, and 
didnt provide details of any expenses incurred on the others. Although our investigator could 
see that it was inconvenient for Miss B, she considered the level of compensation to be fair. 
As Miss B disagreed, her complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the offer is fair in the circumstances. This is because, 
although there were a number of issues, they were repaired in a timely manner, and at no 
cost to Miss B. Although shes clearly been inconvenienced, and Im also sure it was 
stressful, particularly after the first time, Ive though about fair compensation. The actions 
taken to repair the car are what I would have expected, and were done quickly. So, I think 
that £394.74 is fair to reflect the inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision that the £394.74 compensation offered by 
Arval UK Limited is fair. I leave it to Miss B to decide whether shed like to accept it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman