DRN-1724045
The complaint
Miss B complains Studio Retail Ltd refused to change her payment due date on her account, 
didnt respond to her repeated request for this to happen, causing charges to be applied to 
her account and its eventual default.
What happened
Miss B had an account with Studio. She became ill and left her job, with her income then 
being provided through benefits. These were paid to her later in the month than her previous 
wages, meaning she began to struggle to meet the minimum payments on her account on 
the due date. In May 2019, having only been able to make a part payment by the due date, 
Miss B asked for the payment date to be moved to later in the month  after her new pay 
day, so she could always pay on time in the future. Studio said they were unable to change 
the date and advised Miss B she was now in arrears. 
There followed a series of exchanges, the vast majority via email, in which Miss B continued 
to ask them to change the date - Studio saying No to this and asking Miss B to phone their 
financial services department to discuss her payment arrangements. However Miss B didnt 
make any payments after May 2019, her account fell into arrears, charges were added, and 
the account was defaulted in September 2019. 
Miss B complained that Studio refused to change the payment date. Studio replied that they 
werent able to do this  and this was made clear to Miss B on many occasions. Unhappy 
with this, Miss B brought her complaint to us. However, our investigator said Studio had 
acted fairly. He explained Studio had specifically asked Miss B to phone their financial 
services team, and this hadnt happened. And that Studio had repeatedly told Miss B the 
date couldnt be changed, pointing out this was made clear on their website. And whilst 
understanding her unhappiness about the number of times shes emailed Studio, he said 
she was still required to make monthly repayments, but these had stopped in May 2019. He 
said Studio was allowed to take the recovery actions they did, including defaulting the 
account and selling the debt on, because no payments were made. 
Miss B wasnt happy with this, again mentioning the number of times shed tried to contact 
Studio, and how theyd never phoned her when shed asked them to. Although she agreed 
she should have continued making payments. She asked for the case to be looked at by an 
ombudsman, so its been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to begin with the crux of Miss Bs complaint  she wanted to change her payment 
date. This is a simple matter to consider. Studio made it clear to Miss B many times that they 
couldnt change the date. This was effectively part of their standard process  dates couldnt 
be changed. From what I can see from Studios account notes, this was first made clear to 
Miss B in February 2019. I know Miss B was unhappy about this and continued emailing 
Studio many times to ask them to make a change, notwithstanding shed been told many 
times it wasnt possible. Accordingly, I dont think Studio did anything wrong here. They 
clearly and repeatedly told Miss B a payment date change wasnt possible. This was their 
standard operating process, and Im satisfied this was applied to Miss B fairly. 
But I also need to consider whether Studio did enough to help Miss B, once shed raised that 
she was unable to make the full May 2019 payment. In such a situation, wed expect Studio 
to treat Miss B fairly, try and get an understanding of the reasons for the reduced payment, 
and proactively try to find a workable solution to allow her to get back on track. 
Here, Miss B made it clear what the problem was from the outset. She emailed Studio as 
soon as shed made a reduced payment in May 2019 to again ask about moving the date. 
She asked for late charges to be stopped. She didnt say she couldnt afford the payments, 
just that she was now being paid too late in the month to meet her contractual payment date. 
So Studio were aware the problem was, according to Miss B, short term only. 
A few days later, Studio email Miss B to advise how much her June payment will be, which 
includes the £10 arrears. The email repeats her payment date cant change but asks her to 
provide information including why the account fell into arrears, whether Miss B was behind in 
her priority bills, and will she be able to maintain her payments moving forward. Studio also 
inform Miss B theyll allow her 30 days breathing space for her to respond. Whilst the email 
doesnt specifically address the nature of Miss Bs problem, and in some respects ignores 
what shes already told them  that shes paid less in May because of the change in income 
date, it does provide Miss B with an opportunity to enter into discussions with Studio to try 
and get back on track. At this point, I think its reasonable to have expected Miss B to take 
advantage of this opportunity and engage with Studio in the way they were asking. 
Instead, I can see Miss B continued to email Studio to ask them to change the date  which 
theyd already said they couldnt do. I cant see any evidence she did phone Studios 
financial services department during this 30-day period. She also didnt make any further 
payments. Given Miss B was falling further behind with her payments, Studio continued to 
ask Miss B to provide her income and expenditure details. I think this was an appropriate 
thing to do, and something wed expect to see a business do when a consumer is in 
increasing arrears. This information wasnt provided, and Studio continued to pursue the 
increasing debt, which in the circumstances I think it was reasonably entitled to do.
I have sympathy with Miss B that one instance of under-payment, creating a relatively small 
arrears amount, escalated in the way that it did. However, the evidence provided by both 
Studio and Miss B suggests that Miss B repeatedly ignored Studios message that her 
payment date couldnt be moved  she continued asking for this to happen. And Studio gave 
Miss B a month breathing space to discuss and find a way forward, but this opportunity 
wasnt taken up by Miss B. And Studio continued to ask Miss B to phone them to explore a 
solution, which didnt happen. I know Miss B is unhappy because she believes Studio didnt 
phone her back when she asked them to (in her various emails). However, Ive seen Studios 
account notes, and Im satisfied calls were attempted. And regardless, Studio had repeatedly 
asked Miss B to phone them, which I think is fair. So, taken together, I think Studio acted fairly in refusing Miss Bs request to change her 
payment date, and in providing Miss B with space to try and arrange a solution to deal with 
her £10 arrears amount, and get back on track. Because Miss B didnt take advantage of 
that offer, and didnt make any further payments, I think Studio were entitled to continue with 
their collection procedures. And this includes, eventually, defaulting the account. 
Accordingly, I wont be asking Studio to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman