DRN-2894817
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a packaged 
bank account called a Platinum account. 
Lloyds charged Mrs M and Mr M a monthly fee for the Platinum account and provided 
several potential benefits in return. Mrs M and Mr M think that Lloyds should refund them all 
the fees they paid and add interest. 
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M have banked with Lloyds for quite a long time and have had two different 
packaged accounts. The first was called a Gold account. Neither party has been able to tell 
us exactly when Lloyds sold this account to Mrs M and Mr M, but it was either during or 
before 2001. In May 2006, Lloyds then sold them the Platinum account which replaced their 
Gold account. Lloyds charged a higher fee for the Platinum account than for the Gold 
account. I understand that Mrs M and Mr M still have the Platinum account.
When Mrs M and Mr M made their complaint to Lloyds, they said it had mis-sold them both 
the Gold and the Platinum accounts. Lloyds agreed about the Gold account and refunded 
them the fees they had paid for it, plus interest. This refund seems to have been in line with 
what we would have told it to do if we had upheld a mis-sale complaint. Mrs M and Mr M 
have not made any further complaint about the Gold account and I havent considered that 
part of their original complaint to Lloyds any further. 
However, Lloyds thought it had treated Mrs M and Mr M fairly when it sold them the Platinum 
account. It did not give them any refund for this account. Mrs M and Mr M brought this part of 
their complaint to us. One of our adjudicators has already looked into it and didnt 
recommend that Lloyds should give them any money back.
Mrs M and Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint about the Platinum account. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mrs M and Mr Ms 
complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mrs M and Mr M and Lloyds have told us or sent 
us about the case and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Both Lloyds and Mrs M and Mr M have told us that it advised them to buy the Platinum 
account during a meeting or discussion at one if its branches. In an advised sale like this, I 
would have expected Lloyds to check that the account was a reasonable match for Mrs M 
and Mr Ms needs and financial situation, tell them clearly about its benefits and costs, and 
give them a fair choice about buying it. 
Mrs M and Mr M have given us detailed recollections of what they remember happening. 
Theyve said that they were in the branch on other business and Lloyds told them it was 
going to withdraw the Gold account and they had to switch to a Platinum account. They have 
said that they had little time for a proper discussion, but Lloyds said it would deal with it and 
then changed their account without their permission. They now understand that Lloyds 
wasnt withdrawing the Gold account in 2006, so they think it misled them. They have also 
told us that they didnt need any of the benefits that came with the Platinum account. 
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Mrs M and Mr Ms current understanding is correct. Lloyds 
did withdraw the Gold account from sale, but not until 2013 and to date it has allowed 
customers who already held a Gold account to keep it. 
Lloyds has not commented specifically on Mrs M and Mr Ms recollection of the conversation 
but does not think it misled them in the way they have described. It has told us it had their 
permission to switch them to the Platinum account. There is no definitive record of what was 
said at the time, so I cant tell for sure what happened. Instead, I have used the evidence 
that is available to work out what is most likely to have occurred.
In 2006, the benefits of the Platinum account included insurance for mobile phones and 
travel and use of a car breakdown service.
Lloyds provided the car breakdown service through an external organisation and customers 
with Platinum accounts were entitled to use its enhanced services. Lloyds has sent us 
copies of some internal notes it made either during or shortly after the discussion. These 
show that Mrs M and Mr M expressed an interest in these enhanced services. Mrs M and Mr 
M have told us that they already belonged to the same organisation as personal members 
and so didnt need the service from Lloyds. However, Lloyds notes also show that this was 
discussed during the conversation and Mrs M and Mr M said they would consider seeking a 
rebate on their personal membership fees for this organisation. Lloyds records also show 
that shortly after it sold the Platinum account to Mrs M and Mr M, they used the enhanced 
car breakdown service and went on use other aspects of the service many times. 
I do not know if Mrs M and Mr M asked the car breakdown organisation for a rebate on their 
personal membership, but this was a matter for them. They have also mentioned that 
sometime (I dont know when) they called out the organisation using their personal 
membership, but the organisation advised them to use the service associated with the 
Platinum account instead. I accept this, but it doesnt point to any error or mistake by Lloyds. 
Lloyds records also show that Mrs M and Mr M registered several mobile phones for the 
insurance cover and made a claim on it; and that they made several enquiries about the 
travel insurance. 
Taking all this evidence into account, it seems to me that Lloyds must have told Mrs M and 
Mr M about the Platinum accounts benefits during the discussion, that Mrs M and Mr M had 
a potential need for some of these benefits, and that it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
recommend the Platinum account to them. I also think its highly likely that Lloyds told Mrs M 
and Mr M about the fees for the account, as it would not have been credible for it to present 
the benefits as being free. The fees would also appear on Mrs M and Mr Ms bank 
statements and I doubt that Lloyds would have tried to hide them. However, the crux of Mrs 
M and Mr Ms complaint is their belief that Lloyds misled them that it was withdrawing the 
Gold account and switched them to the Platinum account without their permission. 
 I fully accept that Mrs M and Mr M are doing their best to remember what happened during 
the discussion, but it took place around 15 years ago and memories can fade over this 
length time. The have described the conversation as a brief encounter but from Lloyds 
notes it seems to have been longer than that and to have covered relevant topics about the 
Platinum account. As mentioned above, Lloyds did not withdraw the Gold account for 
several years after it sold the Platinum account to Mrs M and Mr M, so I doubt it would have 
misled them about this, particularly as it seems to have had a fairly open discussion with 
them. Similarly, I doubt it would have changed their account without their permission. 
During course of our investigation into this complaint, Mrs M and Mr M have told us that Mr 
M has some health problems and takes regular medicine and so they think he may not be 
eligible for the travel insurance.  
I am sorry to hear about Mr Ms ill health and I hope it is not serious. I do not know many 
details about his medical condition, or when it arose, and its certainly possible that the travel 
insurance may not cover him for claims arising from it. But its also possible that cover may 
be available for an extra premium or may be available anyway, without extra charge. Mrs M 
and Mr M may wish to check this; but the Platinum account came as a package and Mrs M 
and Mr M seem to have a potential need for several benefits, so even if claims arising from 
Mr Ms condition will not now be covered, it doesnt mean that Lloyds mis-sold the account to 
them in 2006. 
So, in summary, I think that it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Platinum 
account to Mrs M and Mr M and Im satisfied that it told them about the costs and benefits of 
the account. I doubt that it misled them it was withdrawing the Gold account or switched 
them to the Platinum account without their permission I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the 
Platinum account to Mrs M and Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint about 
Lloyds Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to them any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman