DRN-1902330
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way in which Clydesdale Bank Plc handled his chargeback and 
section 75 claims.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr C purchased some computer software designed to find seats for concerts. 
The purchase price was £785, and Mr C paid using his Virgin credit card.
Mr C found that the software didnt work as he expected. He contacted the supplier and 
made them aware of the issues he was experiencing. Unable to resolve the issues, Mr C 
asked the supplier for a refund. It refused and said the software was working as it should.
Mr C complained to Virgin. A chargeback was raised but wasnt successful. Virgin also 
reviewed the complaint under section 75 but declined this on the grounds that it couldnt 
identify a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator said that Virgin had acted fairly in the chargeback. He also said that on the 
available evidence, he didnt think there had been a breach of contract.
Mr C didnt agree. He said the software wasnt working as it should and he was unhappy that 
the supplier had taken the software offline in response to his chargeback claim.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Virgin initially attempted a chargeback in response to Mr Cs complaint. 
Chargeback is a proves where the bank or card issuer raises a claim with the merchants 
bank. The merchant can dispute the chargeback and theres no guarantee that the customer 
will get their money back.
When a chargeback is raised, the purchase price is temporarily credited back to the 
customers account. If the chargeback is successful, the money stays with the consumer.  
But if the chargeback is successfully disputed by the merchant, the purchase price will be 
debited again. This is what happened in Mr Cs case.
I dont think that Virgin acted unfairly in its handling of the chargeback. The supplier of the 
software provided evidence to show that it was working as it should.
I can see that Virgin also reviewed the complaint under section 75. In certain circumstances, 
section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against a supplier of goods or services 
or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In order 
to uphold Mr Cs complaint against Virgin, I would need to be satisfied that the software 
wasnt of satisfactory quality or as described, or that it was misrepresented as to what it 
would do, and that Virgins response to the section 75 claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
Mr C says that the software doesnt function as he expected. Hes explained that he wanted 
to use it to find specific seats for concerts he wanted to go to. He says that when he 
searched for tickets, the software couldnt find them.
The software manufacturer has said that the software couldnt find the tickets Mr C was 
looking for because the tickets had already been sold. It says the software isnt designed to 
find re-sale tickets.
Ive looked at the website for the software. Ive also looked at the screen shots and video 
provided by Mr C. The software is described as being able to find presale and on sale 
tickets. Theres nothing on the website to suggest that the software is designed to find re-
sale tickets. 
The screen shots provided by Mr C show that tickets were found. The video shows that the 
software isnt working, possible due to the supplier having taken it offline or possible due to 
some other start up error.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation because the evidence shows that the software is working as described. 
Im satisfied that Virgin handled the claims fairly.
I appreciate that the software isnt working now. Mr C says its been taken offline by the 
supplier. This isnt something I can hold Virgin responsible for  I can only look at whether 
Virgin responded fairly to the chargeback/section 75 claims. If the software has been taken 
offline, Mr C will need to raise this directly with the supplier.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman