DRN-2122425
The complaint
Mr L complains that investment advice he received from Lloyds Bank PLC in 1997 was 
unsuitable.
Mr L is represented in this matter by a third party. 
What happened
In 1997 Lloyds advised Mr L to invest a total of £20,000. The money was split between two 
products, £6,000 into a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) and £14,000 into Lloyds Premier Classic 
Bond (PCB). 
At the time the advice was given Mr L was 45 years old and had a net monthly income of 
£750. He had £21,000 in his savings account. I understand that this money had come from a 
recent inheritance. Mr Ls attitude to investment risk was recorded as low/medium by the 
adviser.
The adviser also noted that Mr L was investing for capital growth over the medium term and 
wanted capital security on some of his investment.
The PCB matured in August 2003 with a value of £14,070. In October 2003 Mr L cashed in 
his PEP for £6,043.97.
In 2019 Mr Ls representative complained to Lloyds about the advice he had been given. It 
said Mr L had been advised to invest too much of his inheritance and he had not been able 
to make an informed decision as he had not been given information about deposit based 
savings products.
Lloyds accepted that the advice Mr L was given in 1997 wasnt suitable. It said that, having 
reviewed the advice, it felt Mr L had been advised to invested too much of his money and as 
a result he hadnt had a sufficient cash emergency fund.
In order to put matters right Lloyds worked out what Mr Ls financial position wouldve been if 
he had invested a total of £10,000 split between the PEP and PCB. It paid Mr L a total of 
£8,202.93 compensation. This amount included interest from the date the investments were 
encashed to 16 November 2019.
Mr Ls representative referred the complaint to this service as it didnt feel the redress 
offered adequately compensated Mr L. In particular, it said Lloyds hadnt addressed its key 
point that Mr L hadnt been given information about deposit based savings accounts.
It said that:
If the adviser had provided Mr L with a comparison of what he could have earned risk free in 
a fixed rate bond available at the time, we do not believe our client would have chosen to 
take the risk of a nil return and invest any money at all.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint. Having done so she said she felt the offer 
Lloyds had made was fair and she didnt think it needed to do any more to resolve this 
matter.
She noted that Lloyds said that it felt Mr L should only have been advised to invest £10,000 
split between the PEP and PCB in 1997. It felt this wouldve left him with sufficient cash 
reserves. 
But Mr Ls representative said it didnt think Mr L should have been advised to invest any of 
his money in equity linked investments. 
Our investigator said she had considered whether Lloyds would still have acted incorrectly if 
it had advised Mr L to invest a total £10,000 into the PEP and PCB instead of £20,000. She 
noted this would have left Mr L with around £11,000 in deposit based savings. 
She said that given Mr Ls stated attitude to investment risk was low/medium she felt he 
had been willing to take some investment risk to achieve his aim of capital growth. And she 
said she wasnt persuaded that just because Mr L was a first time investor, it would 
automatically have been unsuitable for Lloyds to recommend an equity backed investment. 
She also noted that the risk that Mr L might not receive a return on his investment had been 
explained in the point of sale information provided at the time.
Mr Ls representative didnt accept our investigators view and asked for this complaint to be 
determined by an ombudsman. 
It said it accepted that there was no risk to Mr Ls capital with the PCB Lloyds recommended. 
But it noted that the PEP fund recommended only had a 95% guarantee of maintenance 
of capital each year. 
In view of this it said it felt the investments recommended in 1997 were too high risk for Mr L. 
It also reiterated its view that if a comparison with the deposit accounts on offer had been 
provided Mr L would not have taken out any equity backed investments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered all that Mr Ls representative has said and provided. Having done 
so I think the redress Lloyds has already paid to Mr L is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I dont think it needs to do any more to resolve this matter. 
Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether Mr L should have been advised to invest any of his 
money in equity backed investments. Lloyds says that given Mr Ls attitude to investment 
risk and his goal of capital growth over the medium term it would not have been unsuitable if 
Mr L had been advised to invest £10,000 of his £21,000 in equity backed investments with 
some capital protection.
Mr Ls representative says he shouldnt have been advised to invest any of his money in 
equity backed investments. It says if he had been given information about deposit based 
savings accounts, he wouldnt have gone ahead. In reaching my decision I am mindful that if Mr L had wanted information about deposit 
based savings rates this would have been freely available to him. He didnt need a financial 
adviser to provide this information. Likewise, there was no regulatory requirement in place 
for advisers to provide information on the interest rates available on deposit based savings 
before recommending equity backed investments.
Having carefully considered all that has been said and provided I dont think Mr L should 
have been advised to leave all his inheritance in deposit based savings as his representative 
has suggested. 
The information available shows that Mr L wanted to invest for capital growth over the 
medium term. I dont think it is unreasonable for Lloyds to say that it would have been 
suitable for this objective to have been met by investing £10,000 of Mr Ls inheritance in 
equity backed investments. This would have left him with over half his money in deposit 
based savings.
Given Mr Ls low to medium attitude to investment risk I think the funds recommended that 
offered some capital protection were suitable for Mr Ls stated objectives and attitude to risk. 
It is unfortunate that the investments did not perform as Mr L hoped, but I am satisfied that 
the point of sale information explained that there was no guarantee that the investments 
would increase in value.
In summary, I think the redress Lloyds has already paid Mr L on the basis that it should only 
have advised him to invest £10,000 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that the redress Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid to Mr K is fair and 
reasonable. I dont think it needs to do any more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman