DRN-2737880
The complaint
Miss W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse her for the consequential 
losses that shes claimed. Shes being helped with her complaint by a friend.
What happened
Miss W used her Barclays credit card in September 2020 to pay £301.12 for a specialist 
monitor from a supplier through an online marketplace. The wrong product was delivered to 
her so she rejected the delivery and asked the supplier to arrange delivery of the monitor 
that shed ordered. The supplier refunded £295.39 to her credit card two days later  the 
difference being the result of exchange rate movements  and then Barclays credited the 
difference of £5.73 to her account eight days later.
The price of the monitor that Miss W had ordered had increased and she claimed the 
difference from Barclays as a consequential loss under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. It apologised that it hadnt properly logged her complaint which had led to a delay 
in its response but it didnt consider that it was liable for the consequential losses that shed 
claimed. Miss W wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Barclays was only responsible for putting right the initial breach of contract and ensuring that 
Miss W had been refunded for any associated costs that shed incurred as a result of the 
breach. But she said that doesnt mean that, should she choose to buy the item again and its 
price had changed, that Barclays should cover that as Barclays isnt responsible for 
merchants changing their prices. She also said that there didnt appear to be any evidence 
to show that Miss W had bought a replacement monitor. She said that Barclays had 
apologised for some service issues and she agreed that that was the right thing to do.
Miss Ws friend, on her behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He has responded in detail and explained why he considers that Barclays 
should be responsible for the increased cost of the monitor that Miss W originally ordered. 
He says, in summary, that there was a breach of contract by the supplier, Miss W should be 
put back in the position she would have been in had it done what it said it would do, Miss W 
declined a refund but the supplier ignored that and made a refund and that Barclays is jointly 
and severally liable under section 75 for the suppliers breach of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Miss Ws complaint about Barclays, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier and that 
Barclays response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im 
not determining the outcome of Miss Ws claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
the supplier sent the wrong product to Miss W so she rejected the delivery and asked 
to be sent the monitor that shed ordered;
the supplier refunded her payment to her (although there was a difference of £5.73 
due to exchange rate movements which was then credited to her account by 
Barclays);
I consider it was fair and reasonable for the supplier to make a refund to Miss W and 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the supplier was 
required to provide a replacement monitor to her;
Barclays accepts there were some issues with the service that it provided to Miss W 
 it apologised for that and I consider that its apology was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances;
I also consider that Barclays response to Miss Ws claim under section 75 was fair 
and reasonable in these circumstances and Im not persuaded that theres any 
requirement for it to compensate her for the increase in the price of the monitor that 
she initially ordered;
Barclays can be liable under section 75 for consequential losses but Im not 
persuaded that the increase in the price of the monitor is a consequential loss for 
which it would be liable under section 75 - and Ive seen no evidence to show that 
Miss W has bought a replacement monitor or that shes actually incurred the 
consequential loss that shes claimed;
Barclays has said that, if it was sent an order or invoice to show that Miss W had paid 
the additional amount to replace the purchase, it would consider reimbursing her for 
the additional cost incurred on a goodwill basis - I consider that to be a generous 
offer as theres no requirement for it to reimburse her for that amount; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Barclays to reimburse Miss W for the consequential loss that shes claimed, to pay 
her any other compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman