DRN-3136416
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that his request to National Savings and Investments (NS&I) to encash an 
income bond wasnt actioned in a reasonable time, and with difficulties he had when trying to 
log into his NS&I account through the mobile app.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr C attempted to log into his NS&I account via the mobile app as he 
had often done before but found that NS&Is security system no longer recognised one of the 
keys on his mobile phone. Mr C then telephoned NS&I and spoke with an agent who 
attempted to verify Mr Cs identity via the asking of security questions. 
Mr C couldnt answer the security questions correctly and was deemed to have failed the 
security process. Mr C wasnt happy about this and felt that the security questions, which 
were based on historical credit file information provided to NS&I by a credit reference 
agency, werent reasonable. Mr C was also unhappy that the only option available to him 
having failed security was to have a temporary password sent to him in the post.
NS&Is agent then explained to Mr C how he could complete an online form to allow his 
intended request  a withdrawal from his NS&I holding  to be made. However, Mr C didnt 
receive the money from the withdrawal in the timeframe he was expecting, and when he 
called NS&I about this he was told that his withdrawal request was delayed because it had 
been flagged by NS&I for additional security checks. 
Mr C eventually received the withdrawal funds at the end of December 2020, approximately 
five weeks after hed made the withdrawal request. Mr C wasnt happy about this, or with the 
issues hed had trying to log into his account, so he raised a complaint.
NS&I looked at Mr Cs complaint. They felt that the security processes they had in place 
were fair, including the further checks theyd undertaken following Mr Cs withdrawal request, 
and they noted that theyd had reduced staff numbers at the time of Mr Cs withdrawal 
request because of the ongoing impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, which they felt reasonably 
contributed to the delay completing that request. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. They also didnt feel that NS&I had acted 
unfairly towards Mr C by following the security processes that they had. However, they felt 
that NS&I hadnt processed Mr Cs withdrawal request in a reasonable amount of time, and 
so they upheld Mr Cs complaint on that basis and said that NS&I should pay £250 to Mr C.
NS&I didnt agree with view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr C to have been unable to log into 
the NS&I mobile app as hed done previously because the app no longer recognised one of 
the keys on his mobile phone. And I can similarly understand how that frustration might have 
been compounded by the nature of the security questions that NS&I asked Mr C when he 
subsequently contacted them by telephone.
NS&I have stated that there wasnt any fault with their mobile app at the time in question, 
and so while the nature of why Mr C wasnt able to log in to his account using his phone isnt 
clear here, there were other ways for Mr C to contact NS&I and access his account at that 
time, including via telephone. And, while I appreciate that Mr C was inconvenienced by not 
being able to answer the security questions when he telephoned NS&I, I feel that such 
inconvenience is warranted in this instance, given that the purpose of the questions are to 
ensure that NS&I are accepting instructions on the account from an authorised person.
Mr C has stated that he feels that the nature of the questions he was asked in order to verify 
his identity werent reasonable, given that they included information about old credit 
accounts that he doesnt feel anyone should realistically be expected to remember. But its 
for NS&I to decide on the structure of their security protocols and it isnt within the remit of 
this service to instruct NS&I to change those processes here. And it follows from this that I 
dont feel that I can uphold this aspect of Mr Cs complaint as he would like.
However, I do feel that the amount of time that NS&I took to process Mr Cs withdrawal 
request wasnt reasonable in this instance, and I say this even taking into consideration the 
additional security checks that NS&I undertook on the request, which I fell were reasonable, 
and NS&Is comments about the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on their staff levels and 
correspondingly on their ability to reasonably process customer instructions.
NS&I have confirmed that Mr Cs withdrawal request was flagged for additional checking the 
day after he made the request, meaning that it was still approximately five weeks after the 
need for additional checks was recognised that Mr Cs withdrawal request was completed. 
While I accept that such further checks can be warranted, the amount of time it took NS&I to 
complete these checks and process Mr Cs withdrawal instruction doesnt feel fair to me. 
And while it may have been the case that NS&I were experiencing staff shortages at that 
time, it must be noted that these events were in late 2020, several months after the effects of 
the Covid-19 pandemic on businesses such as NS&I were first felt in the early spring of that 
year. And so it would be expected that NS&I, by the time of Mr Cs withdrawal request, 
would have had more effective measures in place to ensure that instructions such as Mr Cs 
werent unreasonably delayed  as I feel was the case in this instance.
All of which means that my final decision here will be that I am upholding this complaint in  
Mr Cs favour on the basis that he didnt receive his requested withdrawal funds in a fair and 
reasonable timeframe. Mr C has stated that his intention was to place the withdrawn funds 
into an interest-bearing account and that the delay in receiving the funds meant that he 
incurred a loss of interest of approximately £250. Mr Cs position here seems reasonable to 
me, and so I will be instructing NS&I to make a payment of £250 to Mr C accordingly.  
Putting things right
NS&I must make a payment of £250 to Mr C.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Savings and Investments on 
the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman