DRN-3576399
The complaint
Mr W complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined his claim 
on his motor insurance policy following the theft of his car. 
What happened
Mr Ws car was stolen, and he made a claim to LV. It declined the claim relying on the keys 
in car exclusion in the policy. Mr W had left his key in the car, but he thought his car would 
have been stolen in any case and he thought this was unfair. He thought LV hadnt 
sufficiently investigated the claim before deciding to decline it.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr W had left the 
key in the car and was nine metres away when it was stolen. So he couldnt say that the car 
was attended at the time of the theft. He thought the car had been stolen more quickly due to 
the key being left inside. And he thought Mr Ws argument that the car could have been 
stolen without it wasnt relevant. And so he thought LV was entitled to decline the claim in 
keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr W replied that LV hadnt reviewed CCTV footage of the theft. He said the police had told 
him he had been targeted in a planned theft by a criminal gang. Mr W asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W feels frustrated by LVs decision to decline his claim for the loss 
of his car. I can see that this has caused him significant financial loss. 
Mr W described the circumstances of the theft. He said he was in a low crime area. He 
stopped his car at a railway station and went to pick up a newspaper from a stand, leaving 
his cars key fob in the central compartment between the two front seats in the unlocked car. 
A button needs to be pressed to start the car. Mr W was nine metres away from the car at 
the time and was away from it for 20 seconds. He said the car was in his sight except when 
he bent down to pick up a paper.
Thieves then stole his car. Mr W said the theft looked to be organised as they had arrived in 
a car with false number plates. And they possibly had already cloned a fob for Mr Ws car. 
Mr W said this was because they wouldnt have known that the fob had been left in his car. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that LV relied on the following policy exclusion to decline the claim. This is on page 
10 of the policy booklet under What is not covered.
loss or damage to your car by theft or attempted theft if the ignition key or other ignition 
device is left in, on or attached to or left in the immediate proximity of your car.
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. But it is significant, and I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording, 
which it is, and in the summary or Key Facts document. And I can see that the exclusion is 
included in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). The policy documents were 
made available to Mr W when he first took out his policy. So Im satisfied that the exclusion 
from cover was sufficiently brought to Mr Ws attention for LV to rely upon it. 
LV said had the key not been left in Mr Ws car or if the car had been locked, then it wouldnt 
have been stolen. So LV assumes that the key was used in the theft and that the car being 
unlocked contributed to the theft.
I can see that the policy also has the following exclusion:
loss or damage to your car by theft or attempted theft if your car has been left unlocked.
We find that insurers often reject claims where the keys had been left in the vehicle  and 
sometimes even if the vehicle had just been left unlocked. However, we will take account of 
all the circumstances of the incident. We pay particular attention to:
Where the vehicle was at the time
Whether the driver was in a position to deter the thief or make a theft unlikely to take 
place
In Mr Ws circumstances, he was in a public place, outside a station. He said this was a low 
crime area. But I think the car had been parked in a public place. And so I think the location 
made the theft more likely. 
Mr W said he was nine metres away at the time the thief took his car. And I think Mr W left 
the car unlocked and wasnt in a position to intervene or deter the thief. So I think the car 
was unattended and  as he left the key in it, and theres an exclusion saying theres no 
cover if this happens, I agree LV is entitled to reject the claim
Mr W thought the theft had been planned. And I can see that this is a matter the police have 
views on. Mr W said that the thieves wouldnt have known the key was in the car. And he 
thought it may not have been used in the theft. And I agree theres no evidence to show 
whether the key was used or not, but the possibility cant be ruled out. The car could be 
started with a push of a button. And so Im satisfied that leaving the key fob in the car made 
it possible or easier for the car to be stolen.
Mr W was also unhappy that LV came to its decision quickly and without requesting the 
CCTV footage. But I cant see that this would have added any further evidence for LV to 
consider as I think the circumstances of the theft werent in dispute. 
So, in summary, I think the policy exclusion was sufficiently brought to Mr Ws attention for 
LV to reasonably rely upon it. I think there wasnt any dispute that the key fob was left in the 
unlocked car and that Mr W wasnt in a position to deter the thief. So I think it was fair and 
reasonable, and in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, for LV to decline Mr Ws 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman