DRN-3121009
The complaint
Mrs T complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) and the service they 
provided after she made a claim on her home insurance policy to replace a damaged laptop.
What happened
On 22 February 2021, Mrs T called RSA to claim on her home insurance policy for a 
damaged laptop. RSA accepted the claim and instructed a third-party company, who Ill refer 
to as B, to arrange for Mrs Ts laptop to be collected. The collection of Mrs Ts laptop was 
arranged for the next day but Mrs T queried whether shed receive the packaging needed for 
this collection to go ahead in time. Mrs T was reassured this would be received, so the 
collection was agreed.
But the next day, the courier arrived to collect Mrs Ts laptop before shed received the 
needed packaging. So, her laptop wasnt collected. Mrs T complained about this, and the 
attitude of the courier. RSA upheld the complaint and offered Mrs T a total of £125 in 
compensation, with £100 being the waiver of her excess.
But at the time RSA offered this compensation, Mrs Ts laptop still hadnt been collected and 
she needed to chase RSA again to ensure this was completed. Mrs Ts laptop was 
eventually collected and a replacement provided. But the replacement laptop arrived 
damaged as well. So, after discussions, it was agreed that Mrs T would order her own new 
laptop with RSA covering the cost. RSA issued Mrs T with a settlement of £1099 to settle the 
claim. But Mrs T was unhappy with the service she received, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs T was unhappy shed been without a personal laptop for almost nine weeks. She 
explained this prevented her from joining family video calls and medical appointments whilst 
also stopping her from accessing exercises she needed to do for treatment. She was also 
unhappy with the way shed been spoken to on the phone on several occasions by different 
members of staff. So, she wanted to be compensated for the inconvenience and upset this 
had caused her.
RSA responded and upheld her complaint again. They agreed theyd caused delays during 
the claim process and accepted the inconvenience this wouldve caused Mrs T. And they 
recognised some of the conversations Mrs T held with members of staff werent as clear as 
they couldve been and shouldve been handled with more empathy to the situation. So, they 
offered to pay Mrs T a further £250 compensation, bringing the total compensation amount 
Mrs T received to £375.
Mrs T didnt think this offer was enough to recognise the upset shed been caused, 
especially as £100 of this compensation was a waiver of the excess she shouldve paid 
when making a claim. So, Mrs T referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He didnt dispute RSA had 
made errors and provided an unreasonable service to Mrs T, as RSA themselves had 
recognised and accepted this. But he thought the £375 RSA had offered was a fair one to 
recognise the impact their service failures had caused. He explained Mrs T had access to a 
work computer and a smart phone with video call capability during the time she was without 
a personal laptop. So, while he understood it wasnt the same experience, he thought this 
couldve been used for family and medical video calls. And he explained Mrs T received a 
financial benefit of £100 by having the excess waived, so felt it was fair to consider this as 
part of the total compensation offer. 
So, he thought the £375 was fair and in line with what he wouldve recommended has the 
offer not already been made. And because of this, he didnt think RSA needed to do 
anything more. Mrs T didnt agree with this view, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs T. I dont doubt it 
wouldve been frustrating for Mrs T to be without her personal laptop for an extended period 
of time. I recognise Mrs T had her insurance policy in place to ensure situations such as this 
one were resolved efficiently with minimal financial impact. So, when her claim took much 
longer than she anticipated to settle, I can understand why Mrs T would be unhappy and 
want to be compensated for the upset she experienced.
In this situation, RSA have already accepted the service they provided fell below a 
reasonable standard. So, I dont intend to discuss whether RSA acted fairly any further as 
its already agreed they didnt. Instead, Ive focused on the offer RSA have made Mrs T to 
resolve the complaint. For me to uphold Mrs Ts complaint and decide RSA should do 
something more, Id need to be satisfied the offer they made was unfair and doesnt fall in 
line with what I wouldve directed had an offer not already been made. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
From what Im able to gather, the main dispute around the compensation relates to the 
impact of not having a laptop had on Mrs T. RSA offered a total of £375 and having read 
through their final response, Im aware part of this offer related to the poor service Mrs T 
received from several members of staff on phone conversations. Having looked at how the 
offer was provided, around £150 was attributed to the service issues on phone calls. I think 
this is a fair offer as it takes into consideration the upset and frustration this wouldve caused 
Mrs T as it happened repetitively. But I think it also factors in RSAs ability to settle Mrs Ts 
claim in a way she was happy with, providing a cash settlement for a brand-new laptop 
rather than replacing it with a refurbished alternative.
Ive then turned to the Mrs Ts main dispute surrounding the delays in receiving a 
replacement laptop and this impact this had.
Mrs T has explained she was unable to join family video calls and medical appointments 
because she was without her laptop for an extended period of time. And I do recognise the 
significance of this, due to the restrictions imposed during the COVID-19 pandemic response 
at the time. Ive got no doubt it wouldve been inconvenient for Mrs T to be without her 
laptop, which shed have grown used to using to communicate with her family and others 
she was unable to see. But, crucially, Mrs T has confirmed she also had a work laptop and a smart phone available 
to her during this time. So, I think she couldve used her work laptop to access any 
information she needed regarding exercises she needed to complete. And she wouldve 
been able to use her smart phone to connect to family calls and attend remote medical 
appointments. Although I recognise Mrs Ts comments regarding the poor signal on her 
phone, I dont think this is the fault of RSA. So, while I do believe it wouldve been 
inconvenient for Mrs T to be without her laptop, I think the availability of these other forms of 
communication mitigates the impact of this.
So, because of the above, I think the additional £225 RSA offered to acknowledge these 
delays, and the impact they had, is a fair one as it falls in line with what I wouldve directed 
had it not already been made. So, I dont think RSA need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
Also, I recognise Mrs Ts disagreement with the £100 excess waiver being considered as 
part of the compensation. But this excess was a requirement for Mrs T to pay when she 
raised a claim. So, shes received a financial benefit by not having to pay it. Because of this, 
I think its fair for RSA to include it as part of the compensation package she offered. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs T was hoping for and I understand Mrs Ts position 
on the compensation amount is unlikely to have changed. But I hope this decision goes 
some way to explaining why I think the offer RSA made was fair and in line with our services 
approach. I hope this in itself brings some form of closure to Mrs T.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman