DRN-2456091
The complaint
Mr. S, a director of  F, a  limited company, complains of unsatisfactory service from The Co-
Operative Bank (TCB). He would like compensation for inconvenience and costs 
What happened
Mr. S says he was unable to order a new security token or to trace a payment reference via 
phone calls or online banking. And even a branch visit didnt resolve this.
He is also unhappy that TCBs phone system only told him that there was a wait in excess of 
30 minutes, and he couldnt arrange a call back.
Finally, he said TCB had resolved the problem when it hadnt. He said he turned down an 
offer of £20 compensation from TCB as he felt it was insulting.
TCB said its day to day operations were significantly impacted by the current pandemic at 
the time Mr. S was trying to contact its Business Customer Services. Unfortunately, this did 
mean it took longer than normal to respond to calls 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt find TCBs reason for increased 
waiting times unreasonable. He felt TCB did try to help Mr. S And he explained that we dont 
have the power to ask businesses to change their systems.
TCB accepted this view but Mr. S didnt.
He said the problem with TCB wasnt a one off event as our investigator seemed to suggest, 
that TCB didnt provide an estimate of waiting times it just said it would be in excess of 30 
minutes, he disputed that TCB didnt have control over the factors that caused an increase in 
phone calls which he felt were due  to a website malfunction  and he disputed TCB tried to 
help him though did accept he did eventually get a new token.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He felt TCB had tried to 
help Mr. S, he reiterated he didnt feel TCB had acted unfairly in advising of a wait time in 
excess of 30 minutes given the pandemic, and he had no evidence of a website malfunction 
He also explained that compensation would be inappropriate as the complaint was no behalf 
of company F, an entity, which cannot suffer distress.
Mr. S didnt accept our investigators second view
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr. S feels strongly about his complaint and I do appreciate that, and the fact he is going to 
be disappointed as Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
I appreciate Mr. S needed to contact TCB to get a new security token and to get details of a 
payment reference. I understand both these issues have now been resolved. But Mr. S isnt 
happy with the time taken on the phone calls he made or that he had to make a branch visit.
Mr. S has told us this wasnt a one off event. But he hasnt given us any details of any other 
issues he has had with TCB. So, I can only consider the complaint he put in which is the 
problem with getting a new token and a payment reference.
As I understand it TCB did indicate on its phone system that there might be a wait in excess 
of 30 minutes so Mr. S had some indication of timescale though not the specific time he 
would need to wait which is what it seems he wanted.
Its unfortunate Mr. S had a lengthy to wait on the phone but given the circumstances of the 
pandemic with increased phone calls and reduced staff I think some delays unfortunately 
had to be expected. 
I have seen no evidence of a malfunction with TCBs website as Mr. S has suggested. TCB 
has told us it moved to a new online banking platform, but it hasnt indicated any problems 
from that move.
So, I dont know why Mr. S couldnt get the payment reference he wanted via online banking.  
It maybe that wasnt information that was available online. TCB has told us that the token 
needed to be ordered by telephone so that would explain why Mr. S couldnt action that 
request that way.
Mr. Ss main point about a possible malfunction of TCBs online system seems to relate to 
the fact that it led to the increase in phone calls. But ,even it that were the case, volumes of 
phone calls can vary for any number of reasons.  And in the circumstances advising 
customers of a lengthy delay doesnt seem unreasonable response from TCB.
Mr. S has told us that TCB didnt give him the reference he needed. That implies he got it 
elsewhere. Its not clear to me from the information I have seen if TCB were unable to 
provide this at all. Or if Mr. S decided to find it elsewhere.
Finally, Mr. S would like more compensation than the £20 TCB offered but subsequently 
retracted when Mr. S turned this offer down. 
As our investigator has explained this complaint is on behalf of a company. I have no 
evidence that the  company itself suffered any loss as a result of TCBs actions. And as a 
company is an entity which cant suffer distress, I dont think that any compensation is 
appropriate..
.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman