DRN-4261338
The complaint
Mr P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wouldnt refund money he lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Mr P says:
Mr P is represented by a third-party claims solicitor, but I will refer to him as the complainant 
here. 
In October 2022, Mr P was messaged on social media by someone allegedly working for an 
investment company. He had been a victim of a previous scam, so was initially sceptical, but 
he was persuaded that investment in bitcoin was a good opportunity to make money and 
supplement his income.  
He was sent a lot of information about the investment, which seemed credible. He saw 
nothing which suggested the company wasnt legitimate. He was sent a link by the scammer 
to register on the investment platform  and he opened an account on it. Beginning on 24 
October 2022, he started to send funds to the platform via a payment service provider (A). 
He was shown (on the scammers website) that his investment was performing well and 
trusted the scammer, so he sent a number of other payments to his account with A over the 
next two months. A total of 14 payments were sent as follows: (continued)
Date Method of payment/beneficiary Amount
24 October 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £910
3 November 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £680
14 November 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £1,043
20 November 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £200
28 November 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £1,200
6 December 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £900
6 December 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £750
7 December 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £985
8 December 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £800
9 December 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £440
13 December 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £500
13 December 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £500
13 December 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £500
13 December 2022 Faster payment/ Payment service provider (A) £500
Total loss £9,908
On 12 December 2022, Mr P was advised his profits were £40,000 and he asked to make a 
withdrawal. For this, he paid a fee  but he heard nothing more. At that stage, he realised he 
had been the victim of a scam.  He contacted Monzo on 25 January 2023 to report it.
Mr P was left in complete shock, hes lost all his savings and feels ashamed and depressed. 
He is now struggling to pay bills.
Mr P said Monzo shouldve done more to protect him. He said the type of payments and 
their frequency indicated that a scam was taking place. He said Monzo should refund the 
money to him.
What Monzo said:
Monzo didnt refund the money. They said:
- They executed the payments in accordance with Mr Ps instructions. The payments 
werent flagged by their systems as suspicious.
- They provided warnings about scams on their website.
- Mr P didnt protect himself as:
oHe didnt take sufficient steps to verify the legitimacy of the scammer.
oHe was contacted initially via social media and this was not a reliable source 
for investment recommendations.oTo make a profit of £40,000 in two months was too good to be true.
oThere were negative reviews about the investment company on Trustpilot.
- Monzo hadnt signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) 
but followed its spirit. But under the Code, Mr P wouldnt be entitled to a refund as 
the payments were made to his own account with the payment service provider A. It 
was the onward payments from A to the scammer which caused Mr Ps losses.
Our investigation so far:
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said Monzo didnt 
need to intervene in the payments  they werent of a high enough value, or regular enough 
to cause Monzo to intervene. Mr P had only recently opened his account with Monzo, so 
there was little account history to compare the payments to. Payment service provider A was 
an established payment firm, so there was even less reason for Monzo to question the 
payments.
Mr P didnt agree. He said the frequency of payments shouldve caused Monzo to be 
suspicious. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr P has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that he 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mr P didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr P when 
he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code  the 
Code): Monzo hasnt signed up to the Code. But they have agreed to follow its principles. 
So  I considered what the impact of the Code would be in this case. But here, the Code 
doesnt apply. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary and in this case, the payments were made to Mr Ps own account with A. So  I 
set that aside.
The important matter here is whether these were payments that Monzo might reasonably 
have considered unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped the 
payments and contacted Mr P about them. 
I looked at Mr Ps account history with Monzo. He only opened the account in September  
2022, so there was little account history to look at before the first payment to A on 24 
October 2022. Of itself, given that this was a new account, this may mean theres an 
argument to say that Monzo shouldve intervened. I also noted that many of the payments 
were initially returned by A, and Mr P then made them again  this is also a reason to have 
expected Monzo to intervene.
Mr P has argued that the frequency of payments shouldve caused Monzo to intervene. Ive 
considered this point  and while on the one hand, this may have meant that Monzo might 
have stopped the payments, on the other hand, the pattern of payments to a known payment 
service provider (and to which firm previous payments had been made by Mr P) would also 
suggest Monzo didnt need to question them. So  it cuts both ways here, and on balance I 
dont consider that the frequency shouldve caused Monzo to intervene.
I must balance these points with the fact that these were very low value payments. And this 
is the overriding consideration here. I say that as theres a balance to be struck: Monzo has 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but 
they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to 
legitimate payments. And therefore in this case, I think Monzo acted reasonably in 
processing the payments.
Also, the payments were to Mr Ps own account with A. They were not payments made 
directly to the scammer - those were presumably made from Mr Ps account with A. And A 
was a known payment service business  so this meant there was less reason for Monzo to 
intervene. And here, as the payments to the scammer were made from Mr Ps account with 
A, he should contact A about them.
Therefore, I do not consider that Monzo needed to intervene, stop the payments, and 
contact Mr P about them, and Monzo dont need to refund the payments to Mr P.
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether Monzo took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover them. I can see Mr P contacted Monzo on 25 
January 2023, and Monzo contacted A on 26 January 2023. They were then advised by A 
that no funds remained, and so nothing could be repaid. 
Im sorry Mr P has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept hes been the victim of 
a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Monzo responsible for his loss.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman