DRN-4141137
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about how Nucleus Financial Services Ltd (Nucleus) dealt with the
payment of benefits following the death of the account holder, Mr Ws mother.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 27 April 2023. Ive recapped here what I said about the 
background to the complaint and my provisional findings. Im sorry that in places I referred, 
in error, to Firm B instead of Firm T. Ive corrected that below. 
Mr W is represented in bringing his complaint by his father who is an independent financial
adviser with a firm Ill call Firm T. Ill refer to Mr Ws representative as Mr W senior.
Mr W and his brother were the nominated beneficiaries for their mothers Wrap Account
(which included a self invested personal pension or SIPP) held with Nucleus. Mr Ws mother
(Mrs W) very sadly died in May 2012. The value of the SIPP fund was then £197,291.50.
The SIPP fund wasnt paid out until July 2016. The value had by then increased to
£220,823.76. But a 45% tax deduction (£97,780) was made so only £123,823.76 was
actually paid out to Mr W and his brother.
Under HMRC regulations the drawdown pension lump sum death benefit isnt taxable if the
member was aged under 75 when they died (which Mrs W was) and provided its paid out
within two years of the earlier of the date the scheme administrator first knew of the
members death or the date they could first reasonably have been expected to know of it. As
the plan value wasnt paid out within two years of when Nucleus says it had been notified of
the death, a tax liability arose.
Mr W senior dealt with matters following Mrs Ws death as both Mr Ws father and a
representative of Firm T. Mr W senior says he telephoned Nucleus in November 2012 to
confirm that Mr W and his brother could delay notifying Mrs Ws death so that the SIPP fund
could remain invested and to ascertain exactly what Nucleus deemed as notification of death
for the purposes of the tax charges. Mr W senior says he was told notification would only be
deemed to have been made by Nucleus upon receipt of the death claim form, letter from the
executors and the death certificate.
Nucleus disagrees. It says its representative was talking about Nucleus internal process for
dealing with a death claim. That isnt the same as notification of death which triggers
HMRCs two year rule and isnt something Nucleus has any discretion about.
Another member of Firm Ts staff made some enquiries of Nucleus in December 2012 via an
electronic messaging system. The communication from Firm T was headed Client
deceased, gave the date of death and referred to Mrs W as deceased. Firm T said it wanted
the pension fund to remain invested and then split between Mr W and his brother with an
internal transfer into two new ISAs (Individual Savings Account) and maintaining the current
investment portfolio.
Nucleus replied on 6 December 2012 saying, under the current terms and conditions, assets
will always be sold down on notification of death. New terms and conditions were coming
into force from 12 December 2012 to allow funds to remain invested but any notifications
received prior to then meant the account would be converted to cash. Nucleus said the
account could be split between Mr W and his brother once the executors had confirmed that
but not re-registered into an ISA  that had to be new money and what Mr W and his brother
would get was over the maximum ISA allowance. Nucleus repeated what documents were
required for any death claim.
Firm T replied the same day, querying how the claim form should be completed. Nucleus
responded that day. A month later the query was closed as Firm T didnt require any further
information.
Firm T raised a further query on 23 January 2013. Firm T said it was in the process of
gathering all the information required to ensure the case was dealt with as smoothly as
possible. Firm T asked what information should be included in the letter from the executors,
explaining that the fund should be divided equally and transferred into Mr Ws and his
brothers pension accounts held with Nucleus.
Nucleus replied the following day querying if Firm T had meant the beneficiaries pension
accounts  previously general investment accounts and ISAs had been discussed. Nucleus
said its compliance department had said it might not be possible to move the fund directly to
another persons account so it might be that the money had to be paid out to the
beneficiaries and then returned to Nucleus as a new contribution to the designated account.
Nucleus confirmed the letter from the executors could contain the exact instructions for
clarity. Firm T confirmed on 7 February 2013 that the query could be resolved.
Nothing further seems to have happened. Statements continued to be issued regularly to
Mrs W at her usual address.
In February 2016 Mr W and his brother wanted to close the account and withdraw the funds.
Nucleus confirmed on 30 March 2016 the documents required. Mr W senior emailed the
death claim declaration and the death certificate to Nucleus on 22 April 2016. Nucleus
acknowledged Mrs Ws death on 26 April 2016. The value of the pension fund was then
£220,823.76.
On 26 May 2016 Nucleus said that Mrs Ws death had been notified in December 2012. That
wasnt what Mr W and his brother and Mr W senior had understood. What had happened
was discussed at two meetings. But Nucleus maintained the death had been notified in
December 2012.
On 8 July 2016 £123,823.76 was paid out to Mr W and his brother after a tax deduction of
£97,779.35.
In July 2018 solicitors instructed by Firm T sent a letter of claim to Nucleus pursuant to the
Pre Action Protocol for Professional Negligence. Breaches by Nucleus of its duty to exercise
reasonable skill and care in administering the Wrap Account were alleged. Including failing
to provide correct advice to Mr W senior when hed sought advice about HMRCs 
requirements and tax charges in respect of lump sum death benefits under a pension
scheme; failing to confirm what Nucleus required for a notification of death to be made in
accordance with HMRCs requirement; not advising that notification of Mrs Ws death had
allegedly been made in December 2012; and not warning that a tax charge would apply if
the funds werent transferred out of the Wrap Account within two years of the alleged
notification. Alleged breaches of contract were also cited.
Solicitors instructed by Nucleus responded in November 2018 saying, amongst other things,that Nucleus didnt provide advice. Mr W senior was authorised to provide financial advice.
He was aware of the two year deadline. If he unsure he shouldve sought guidance from
HMRC or a tax adviser, not Nucleus. He hadnt sought clarification of HMRC procedures
from Nucleus  hed sought guidance from Nucleus on its own process. It seemed Mr W
senior had formulated a tax avoidance strategy by delaying notification of the death. Hed
then called Nucleus with carefully selected questions to elicit particular responses. The other
member of Firm Ts staff didnt ask abstract or hypothetical questions. She expressly
confirmed that Mrs W had died and gave the date of death. The issues of the death claim
and death notification had been conflated.
In May 2019 Mr W and his brother complained to Nucleus. They said Mr W senior had come
to an agreement with Nucleus not to formally notify Mrs Ws death so the funds could remain
invested for longer than two years. Mr W senior understood that Mrs Ws death would only
be deemed to be notified on receipt of the death claim and supporting documents. And, once
theyd been received, the fund would be converted to cash. Instead Nucleus had deemed
the enquiries made in 2012 as notification.
Mr W and his brother also said Nucleus had given incorrect advice three times and Mr W
senior had relied on it in deciding not to draw down in the two year window. Alternatively
Nucleus had failed to inform Mr W senior that notification was received in 2012. And
correspondence continued to be sent to Mrs W as if she was still alive. The fund wasnt
converted into cash. No warning was given that withdrawal needed to be made within two
years to avoid incurring a tax charge.
Nucleus didnt uphold the complaint. It referred to the terms and conditions of the Wrap
Account and the key features document. It said Nucleus acts on the instructions of the
appointed adviser. Nucleus isnt regulated or authorised to provide financial advice. Nucleus
denied any arrangement had been reached not to formally notify Mrs Ws death to allow the
fund to remain invested for longer than two years. Mr W seniors strategy was to avoid tax by
delaying notification of the death. Hed called Nucleus with carefully selected questions.
Nucleus responses were correct in line with the questions asked.
Mr W senior had asked Nucleus if the two year window started at the date of death or the
notification to the scheme administrator. Nucleus had directed him to HMRC guidance 
which said it was the date of notification or the date from which Nucleus could reasonably be
expected to know about the death. That was separate and distinct from the process of
making a death claim. The answers Mr W senior was given were about Nucleus own
process. When Nucleus was contacted by the other member of staff at Firm T she
confirmed, amongst other things, Mrs Ws date of death  so Mrs Ws death had been
notified in accordance with HMRCs rule. The failure to submit the death claim meant the
funds werent converted to cash.
Mr W and his brother remained unhappy and referred their complaint to this service. One of
our investigators looked into what had happened. She upheld the complaint. In summary she
said the complaint was largely based on an informal conversation between Firm T and
Nucleus following Mrs Ws death. No recording of the call was available and it would be very
difficult to verify that Nucleus couldve reasonably have known about Mrs Ws death. But 
about six months after Mrs W had died another employee of Firm T had contacted Nucleus
and it was unambiguous that Mrs W had died. The date of the enquiry wasnt clear but
Nucleus had replied on 6 December 2012. The initial message and notification was likely to
have been no earlier than 5 December 2012. The terms and conditions said, when written
notification of the death is received, Nucleus will sell the non cash assets in each account
and hold the proceeds on deposit. And, on receipt of the death certificate, the grant of
probate or appropriate legal confirmation, the cash balance of the account would be
transferred on the instruction of the personal representatives.Nucleus received notification of the death in early December 2012. That shouldve triggered
the sale of the assets and the proceeds being held on deposit. As the notification triggered
HMRCs two year clock, some form of correspondence would be expected in respect of the
next steps required. But the information requirement had been largely satisfied  Nucleus
had said what documents it needed. Firm T hadnt supplied those until 2016 in the belief that
the two year clock hadnt started. But the notification was clear and Nucleus had no
discretion  it had to follow the relevant legislation and regulations. It seemed to have been
an oversight on Nucleus part in continuing to write to Mrs W at her home address.
But thered been a lack of communication about the two year window. It hadnt been
referenced in the electronic messages. The investigator said shed expect, once notification
sufficient to trigger the two year window had been received, and in the absence of any
further communications, a follow up or reminder would be issued. It wasnt fair and
reasonable for Nucleus to have recorded a notification of death and then taken no further
action during the two year window. The investigator was also concerned that Nucleus had
continued to write to the deceased and hadnt sold the investments in line with its terms and
conditions.
But the investigator didnt think Nucleus was solely responsible. A second regulated firm was
also involved  Firm T. It wouldve been aware of the two year rule and had submitted
information making Nucleus aware of the members death. Firm T then took no action for
some three and a half years. And Firm T had accepted some responsibility. Mr W was
seeking half of his losses on the basis that Firm T had already offered the other half.
Although she hadnt seen evidence of the offer or confirmation of payment by Firm T, the
investigator thought it was fair and reasonable to say Nucleus should meet half of Mr Ws
losses on the basis she set out. Her redress proposal included £200 for distress suffered by
Mr W on receiving an unexpected tax charge.
Nucleus didnt accept the investigators view. It referred to the response from its legal
representatives to the initial complaint. Nucleus said there was no record of any informal
arrangement with Mr W senior to allow the fund to remain invested and not document a date
of death which wouldve triggered the two year period. As a regulated firm, Firm T had to
keep records of calls, emails etc. If there was any record supporting the claim about the
arrangement Nucleus could review the situation.
Nucleus said thered been a misunderstanding as to its role. Nucleus doesnt assist in
managing the Wrap Account. Nucleus doesnt provide financial advice. Nucleus acts on the
instructions of appointed financial advisers. Nucleus wasnt the scheme administrator at the
time.
Firm T had asked (via the electronic messaging system) about the documentation required
for the beneficiaries to inherit the funds from the pension. In response clear guidance was
given as to Nucleus death benefits process and what documents should be submitted.
Nucleus was under no obligation to inform a regulated adviser of the two year timescale. The
adviser wouldve been fully aware of the implications if the inheritance isnt paid within two
years. Nucleus representative answered the specific question as to what documentation was
required for the death claim. Theres a distinction between notifying a death and making a
death claim. Nucleus wasnt under any obligation to provide a reminder but a process is now
in place whereby a reminder is sent six weeks prior to the two year anniversary.
As agreement wasnt reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W and his brother have both made more or less the same complaints. So, although Im
issuing separate provisional decisions, they are identical in most respects.
I agree with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld. But my reasoning differs,
as does the redress Ive proposed. Im issuing a provisional decision to allow both parties the
opportunity to comment on my provisional findings and the redress Ive set out.
Exactly what was said during Mr W seniors initial call with Nucleus isnt agreed. Mr W senior
says, having spoken to the executors of Mrs Ws estate, it had been agreed that there was
no need for Mr W and his brother to inherit immediately. Mr W senior telephoned Nucleus to
see what could be done about leaving the benefits in [Mrs Ws] name for the time being.
And, according to Mr W senior, Ns adviser said they could have an anonymous
conversation. Mr W senior understood that he wasnt notifying Mrs Ws death, whether for
HMRCs purposes or for Nucleuss internal procedure. Whereas Nucleus says the
conversation was all about the procedure with Mr W senior being careful to ensure that what
he said didnt amount to saying Mrs W had died.
Theres no recording of the call and I think its going to be impossible now to reach any firm
conclusions about exactly what was said and in what context. I dont think theres any
suggestion that Nucleus did record at that stage that Mrs Ws death had been notified. That
might have been because Mr W senior didnt actually say that or because the conversation
was off the record. Either way I dont think much turns on the conversation given there was
a later exchange in December 2012.
Although Mr W senior says that he made it clear to his colleague that Firm T wouldnt be
notifying Mrs Ws death, I think its apparent that Firm T did tell Nucleus in December 2012
that Mrs W had died and gave her date of death. Theres no suggestion, from the messages,
that Firm T was acting pursuant to any prior agreement about not notifying the death. So, on
the face of it, Nucleus was given written notification of the death.
I agree that notification of death and the process by which the death claim is made are
separate matters. When the death claim was eventually made in 2016, Nucleus records
showed Nucleus had been notified of Mrs Ws death in December 2012. Its notification that
triggers HMRCs two year window for payment of benefits tax free. By the time the claim was
made, over four years after the death had been notified, the two year period had expired and
so the benefits couldnt be paid out tax free.
On the one hand. Nucleus didnt do anything wrong by paying out the benefits after
deduction of tax. But, like the investigator, I think there are issues around what Nucleus
shouldve done once it had been notified of Mrs Ws death.
The death claim declaration says it should be used to notify Nucleus of the death of a client.
That might imply that a death claim can only be notified by that method. I can understand
why Mr W senior may have thought, if that form hadnt been submitted, then the death hadnt 
been notified. Whereas its the case that simply telling Nucleus that the account holder has
died constitutes notification for HMRCs purposes. And, as referred to below, the account
terms and conditions just refer to written notification of the death  theres no stipulation that
a certain form is required. But, given what Ive said below about the account terms and
conditions, I dont think anything turns on any apparent anomaly with the death claim form.
The terms and conditions which applied where, as here, the death was notified before 12
December 2012, said, under the heading Closure on death:When written notification of the death is received, we will sell the non-cash Assets in each
Account and hold the proceeds on deposit. All pending transactions will cease (including
withdrawals) though trades in progress will be completed and the Charges will continue to be
deducted. Upon receipt of the death certificate, the grant of probate or appropriate legal
confirmation, we will transfer the cash balance of the Account on the instruction of your
personal representatives.
Nucleus position is that it had been notified in writing in December 2012 of Mrs Ws death.
On that basis, Nucleus shouldve sold the non cash assets and held the proceeds on
deposit. I think if that process had been followed, it wouldve probably, and independently of
any death claim having been made by Firm T, triggered some further correspondence, such
as notification of the amount realised by the sale of the assets and placed on deposit.
And, having been notified of Mrs Ws death, Nucleus shouldve stopped sending statements
to her. I think the absence of any statements wouldve led Firm T to make enquiries as to
how the fund was doing. Firm T wouldve then found out it had been converted to cash and
was being held on deposit, which wasnt what Firm T wanted. Or if the statements had been
issued to Firm T instead as the nominated adviser Firm T wouldve seen that the fund had
been disinvested.
I think, in any of those scenarios, Firm T wouldve made the death claim. Once Firm T knew
the fund had been disinvested there was no benefit in delaying making a claim. Id have
thought Firm T wouldve been keen to get the monies released so they could be reinvested,
whether in Mr Ws name (or via some kind of trustee arrangements made if there was to be
a delay in Mr W being able to access the fund). In my view, if Nucleus had followed its own
terms and conditions and procedures, the likely outcome wouldve been that Firm T wouldve
gone ahead with the death claim.
As to the timing, on 23 January 2013 Firm T said it was in the process of gathering all
information to ensure the case was dealt with as smoothly as possible. A detailed question
was asked about how the supporting letter from the executors should be worded and the
instructions for onward investment of the fund, split between Mr W and his brother. It seems
that, towards the end of January 2013, Firm T was giving detailed consideration to
submitting the death claim and supporting documentation. I think by then, had Nucleus acted
on the notification of death given on, say, 5 December 2012, the fund wouldve been held on
deposit. And, had Firm T known that, the death claim wouldve then been submitted
promptly  say by the end of January 2013.
Id also agree with the investigator that, having been notified of Mrs Ws death, and being
aware that would open a two year window for the death claim to be paid without deduction of
tax, Nucleus shouldve reminded or warned Firm T when the two year window was closing
and if no death claim had by then been made. I note what Nucleus has said about not having 
been the SIPP administrator throughout. From 21 December 2006 until 5 August 2012 
another company was the SIPP administrator. But Nucleus then took over. Although Mrs Ws 
death predated Nucleus becoming the SIPP administrator, the key events  Nucleus being 
notified on 5 December 2012 as to Mrs Ws death and what happened thereafter  were 
when Nucleus was the SIPP administrator.
Acting in that capacity Id expect Nucleus to be familiar with the two year window for paying
out benefits without deduction of tax. Regardless of whether Mr W senior knew or ought to
have known about the two year period (and I think he did know, hence his attempts to delay
notification of the death), Nucleus was the SIPP administrator and wouldve known. I think
Nucleus shouldve made some reference to it, if only when it seemed no death claim might
be made before the expiry of the two year period. That wouldve avoided the consequencesof any misunderstanding arising from anything that was had been discussed initially about
not notifying the death. I note that Nucleus now does issue a reminder six weeks before the
two year window closes.
But I think thats probably a secondary consideration given what Ive said about what
wouldve happened if Nucleus had followed its own procedures and converted the fund to
cash. I dont think its fair for Nucleus, if it was notified of Mrs Ws death, not to have done
what Nucleus own terms and conditions say Nucleus will do in those circumstances 
convert the assets to cash and hold on deposit. If Nucleus had done that I think that
wouldve prompted action  a death claim  by Firm T for the reason Ive suggested. And I
think that claim wouldve been made by, say,1 February 2013.
As to when the claim would actually have been paid out, Id suggest it shouldve taken no
more than, say, ten working days. When the claim was actually made in April 2016 it wasnt
actually paid out until July 2016 but that was because there was there was a dispute as to
what had been agreed. Ive assumed, if the death claim was made on 1 February 2013, Mr
W and his brother wouldve received the account proceeds (with no deduction for tax made)
by 15 February 2013.
Mr W has mentioned a further financial loss in connection with a student loan repayment he
had to make. I dont think any award in respect of this aspect of the matter should be made.
Mr W would always have been liable to repay the loan anyway and any payment he made,
albeit one which he might not have expected to have to make when he did, will have
reduced his loan balance and associated interest in the long term. I dont think theres any
financial loss as such.
I went on to set out what Nucleus needed to do to put things right. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Nucleus accepted my provisional findings and the suggested method of redress. Nucleus 
asked for details of the payment made by Firm T  how it was calculated and the amounts 
and dates the payments were made. 
Mr W senior provided details of the sum paid by Firm Ts PI insurers, which we shared with 
Nucleus. Firm Ts PI insurers said theyd agreed to cover 50% of the tax charge paid by the 
clients as, whilst it was felt Nucleus were fully to blame for the situation, the clients were 
wholly innocent and so, as a gesture of goodwill, the PI insurers offered to meet 50% of the 
clients loss. The tax charge was £97,779.35 and 50% of that was £48,889.68. Firm Ts 
excess was £5,000 and so the PI insurers paid £43,889.68. 
Mr W senior said that left a shortfall of £53,890.32. He also said that, as a result of the claim, 
Firm Ts annual PI costs were increased in 2017 and will remain at a higher level for so long 
as Firm T remains in business. Mr W senior said it was the only complaint hed had 
personally in 40 years and the only complaint Firm T had had since it was set up in 2005. He 
suggested the split between Firm T and Nucleus wasnt fair as Firm T hadnt received 50% 
of the claim. Mr W senior also suggested that the excess of £5,000 arose because Nucleus 
had misadvised him.
Mr W senior also said that Mr W incurred further losses and expenses arising from the 
matter  a large tax bill, a higher than expected repayment in connection with Mr Ws student 
loan and accountants fees. 
Mr W senior explained that, at his request and because he thought it would be quicker and 
simpler, Nucleus paid out the full amount to Mr W, rather than splitting the payment between him and his brother. Nucleus then deducted tax at 45%. Mr Ws personal allowance was lost 
 for every £2 of income over £100,000 the then personal allowance of £11,000 was 
reduced by £1. Mr W senior said that, in addition to a large tax bill, Mr W had to pay an 
additional £20,000 towards his student loan. 
Mr W senior also told us that Mr W contacted an accountant for an opinion who offered to 
speak to HMRC to explain that the payment arose out of Mr Ws mothers pension fund and 
wasnt actually additional income. But HMRC said hed still have to pay the student loan 
repayment. The accountants invoice for £800 was provided along with an email from the 
accountant setting out what Mr Ws income tax liability for 2016/2017 wouldve been and a 
calculation showing his actual position for that tax year.  
I considered the further information and evidence that had been provided before letting Mr W 
senior know my further thoughts. Essentially I wasnt persuaded that any award should be 
made in respect of any extra tax incurred, the student loan repayment or the accountants 
fees. 
In summary, Mr W senior accepted some of what Id said but he maintained that Nucleus 
mismanagement of the situation had created a significant tax charge which meant Mr W had 
to seek the accountants advice, which wouldnt otherwise have been needed as Mr Ws 
income without the death claim payment was relatively modest and his tax position easily 
calculated. 
Mr W senior also maintained that the excess of £5,000 had arisen because hed been misled 
by Nucleus  the scheme administrator  whod advised that notification of death had to be 
by their standard process. That meant submitting a claim form and supporting documents, 
such as the death certificate. And Nucleus then current terms and conditions said that 
assets will always be sold down on notification of death. That didnt happen and Nucleus 
continued to write to Mrs W for four years until Nucleus received formal notification of death 
in 2016. Nucleus didnt contact Mr W senior at any point to say the two year deadline was 
coming to an end. Its only now, on reflection and with hindsight, that Nucleus are saying 
they were notified earlier. The actual position adopted by Nucleus confirms they didnt 
believe at the time theyd been notified. Mr W senior said his actions were based on what 
Nucleus had advised at the time and Nucleus behaviour. He also provided a copy of an 
email sent by Nucleus to his colleague on 6 December 2012. We had in fact already seen 
that email. 
After Id considered the further comments made I let both Mr W senior and Nucleus have 
details of the revised redress I proposed, taking into account the further information provided 
as to the payment made by Firm Ts PI insurers. Nucleus didnt comment. Mr W senior 
agreed with the calculations wed set out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, details of how the payment made by Firm Ts PI insurers was 
calculated have been provided. The tax charge was £97,779.35. 50% of that was 
£48,889.68 so the PI insurers paid £43,889.68 which took into account Firm Ts excess of 
£5,000, which Firm T hasnt yet paid over. 
I note all Mr W senior has said about the excess and that the claim has increased Firm Ts 
annual PI costs in 2017 and going forwards. Mr W seniors position is that he acted on what 
Nucleus, as the scheme administrator, said and did and so I think hes suggesting that the excess should be met by Nucleus. Hes set out in some detail why he considers Nucleus 
failed to follow their procedures and misadvised him. But theres some dispute about exactly 
what happened, especially what was said during Mr W seniors initial call with Nucleus and 
what, if anything was agreed. 
And, as I said in my provisional decision, theres a difference between notifying a death and 
making a death claim. The latter requires submission of the relevant form supported by 
documentation such as the death certificate. Whereas simply telling Nucleus that Mrs W had 
died will be notification for HMRCs purposes and will start the two year time limit running. I 
still think, and regardless of anything that might have been discussed earlier, that happened 
in December 2012. 
I understand what Mr W senior says about Nucleus actions not being consistent with 
Nucleus having been notified of the death then  the assets werent sold down and Nucleus 
continued to write to Mrs W as if she was still alive. I can see that it might not have been until 
Nucleus came to deal with the death claim that Nucleus realised it had been notified earlier 
of Mrs Ws death and that the two year window had expired and so tax was payable.   
But, in determining the complaint, I need to consider what shouldve happened and if Mr W 
and his brother have lost out because of the way the matter was actually handled. The 
redress Ive awarded aims to put Mr W and his brother in the position theyd have been in if 
Nucleus had dealt with things as they shouldve done, having been notified of Mrs Ws death 
in December 2012. It takes into account the payments Mr W and his brother actually 
received  what Nucleus paid out and the payment from Firm Ts PI insurers. 
As to Firm Ts excess, I think its fair to take that into account too. Although I note whats 
been said about why the PI insurers agreed to make a payment, I dont see that an 
insurance company wouldve paid out unless some liability was accepted. I think the excess 
should be taken into account as its money that would otherwise (if thered been no excess) 
have been paid by the PI insurers as part of the claim. And any suggestion that Firm T has 
been unfairly penalised and/or suffered a financial loss in terms of the excess isnt within the 
scope of a complaint brought by Mr W and his brother. I consider it fair and reasonable, in 
calculating the sums due, that Nucleus can deduct the full amount of £48,889.68 (the 
amount paid by the PI insurers plus Firm Ts £5,000 excess) from the redress due to Mr W 
and his brother. 
As Ive already indicated to Mr W senior and as I think he accepts, Im not going to make any 
award in respect of additional income tax suffered by Mr W. To explain, Mr W senior has 
said that, at his request and because he thought it would be easier and quicker, Nucleus 
paid out the full amount to Mr W (rather than splitting the payment between him and his 
brother. The payment increased Mr Ws income, wiped out his personal allowance and 
created a large tax bill. Further, Mr W had to pay an additional £20,000 towards his student 
loan. 
Weve also seen an email from the accountant which says, but for the payment from 
Nucleus, Mr Ws tax liability for 2016/2017 wouldve been £2,946.60. No calculation for that 
figure was provided but it would seem to be correct as, excluding the payment from Nucleus, 
Mr Ws total income from employment (£24,087) and rental income (£1,646) wouldve been 
£25,733. His personal allowance was £11,000 which left £14,733 so tax at 20% wouldve 
been £2,946.60. The accountant also provided a tax calculation for 2016/2017. It showed 
that Mr Ws total income was £246,556 (made up of the Nucleus payment of £220,823 plus 
the other income totalling £25,733) which gave a total tax liability of £97,050.20 against total 
tax deducted at source of £100,441. So that would appear to give rise to a tax credit of 
£3,390.80. Its only when the student loan repayments of £19,860 are taken into account that 
a liability in respect of tax and national insurance of £16,469.20 arises. In my provisional decision I said I didnt think any payment in respect of Mr Ws student loan 
could properly be regarded as a financial loss. Even if Mr W had to make a higher payment 
than hed ordinarily have done, it will still go towards paying off the loan  an existing 
obligation  quicker and there could be savings in terms of reduced interest being charged 
going forwards. And the fact that the payment was made just to Mr W, rather than split 
between him and his brother, may have exacerbated the situation, particularly in respect of 
the student loan. I dont think it would be fair to say Nucleus should have to contribute to any 
unexpected higher repayment when the payment to just one son was made at Mr W seniors 
request. But I mention that in passing only as it seems, ignoring the student loan repayment, 
there was no extra tax liability and, as Ive explained, I dont think an award in respect of the 
higher student loan payment is justified. 
Mr W senior maintains that a payment in respect of the accountants fees is justified on the 
basis that Nucleus mismanaged the situation. But it seems the accountant was employed to 
seek to mitigate the position regarding the student loan repayment but was unsuccessful. As 
Ive said, the fact that the payment was made just to Mr W seems to have complicated the 
situation and had unintended consequences, at least as far as the student loan was 
concerned. To the extent that situation arose because Nucleus agreed to Mr W seniors 
request to pay it all to one son, I dont think it would be fair for Nucleus to have to meet any 
costs incurred in unsuccessful negotiations with HMRC about where the payment left Mr W 
in terms of his student loan repayments. 
And, although Mr W senior says the accountant wouldnt have been involved otherwise, it 
seems that the accountant submitted self assessment tax returns for Mr W for the two 
subsequent tax years. I note that in addition to his income from employment, Mr W had 
rental income too. Its not unreasonable to conclude its likely the accountant wouldve 
completed Mr Ws self assessment tax return for 2016/2017 anyway and wasnt instructed 
just because of the payment made by Nucleus. But, even if that was the case, as Ive said, 
the accountants focus seems to have been on the higher student loan repayment which I 
think arose in part at least because the payment was just made to Mr W. 
All in all my views remain as set out in my provisional decision. Ive recapped those in full 
above and those findings form part of this decision.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to try to put Mr W, as far as possible, back in the position hed
be in if Nucleus Financial Services Ltd had dealt with things as I consider they shouldve 
done. 
Ive said that the death claim wouldve been made by 1 February 2013 and paid by 15 
February 2013. So Nucleus Financial Services Ltd needs to work out what the value of the 
account wouldve been on that date (15 February 2013). Interest at 8% pa simple should be 
added to that sum from that date to the date of settlement. Ill call that total amount (A).
For the avoidance of doubt the date of settlement is the date the redress calculations are
undertaken (by Nucleus Financial Services Ltd) following the issue of my final decision and 
once Nucleus Financial Services Ltd has been notified (by us) that the final decision has 
been accepted by Mr W. 
What Mr W (and his brother) actually got has to be taken into account. The sum paid out in
July 2016 was £123,823.76. Interest at 8% pa simple should be added to that sum to the
date of settlement. Ill call that total amount (B). The difference (A) minus (B) is the loss to
Mr W and his brother. In my provisional decision I said that 50% of the loss had been met by Firm T but I didnt 
have any details as to how that had been calculated or the sum actually paid. We now have 
details as to the sum actually paid (£43,889.68) and how it was calculated. And, as Ive set 
out above, theres also a £5,000 excess for which Firm T is responsible. Even if the excess 
hasnt been paid I think, for the reasons Ive explained, that its still fair and reasonable for it 
to be taken into account. 
So Nucleus can deduct the full amount (£48,889.68) plus interest at 8% pa simple on that 
sum from the date payment (of £43,889.68) was made  which we understand was on 24 
July 2019  to the date of settlement. 
Mr T and his brother will have had the use and benefit of the money (which in theory 
shouldve included the £5,000 excess payment) from that date so its fair and reasonable for 
interest at 8% pa simple to be added from then and included in the total amount to be 
deducted. Ill call that amount (£48,889.68 plus interest) (C). 
So Nucleus is responsible for (A) less (B) less (C). Ill call the result (D). As the redress is to 
be split between Mr W and his brother, Nucleus Financial Services Ltd will need to pay 50% 
of (D) to each.   
Theres also a payment of £200 each to Mr W and his brother for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Nucleus Financial Services Ltd must redress Mr W as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman