DRN-2315034
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the exchange rate HSBC Bank Plc used when he deposited a foreign 
currency cheque into his current account.
What happened
Mr T says he went into branch in May 2020 to ask about depositing a foreign currency 
cheque for close to 86,000 USD into his account. When he asked about the exchange rate 
that would be used, he says HSBC told him it would use the rate recognised by most banks 
on the day the cheque credited his account.
Mr T went back into the branch a week later to deposit his cheque. Around three weeks after 
this, he received a letter confirming the cheque had cleared and his account had been 
credited. The letter also outlined the exchange rate that had been used. Mr T was unhappy 
with this, as it was less favourable than what hed expected. He also noticed that the letter 
referred to terms and conditions, but Mr T says these werent included with the letter. 
Unhappy about this, Mr T contacted HSBC later that month. HSBC looked into matters and 
explained that the rate used was HSBCs own rate  determined by the mid-market rate with 
a margin applied. So, HSBC thought Mr Ts cheque was processed in line with its policy. It 
did, however, apologise for not sending terms and conditions with the letter and arranged for 
these to be sent. It also offered Mr T £100 for the overall inconvenience caused.
Mr T remained unhappy with HSBCs response, and the fact that the rate it used was less 
favourable than the globally accepted rate. He also thought the way the branch staff handled 
the deposit was unprofessional, as he was only given a hand-written slip when he deposited 
the cheque, and no terms and conditions. So, Mr T brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators reviewed things and didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly. She 
explained that it wasnt for our service to comment on the procedures a bank has in place 
and that we can only review whether it had followed its procedures correctly, and she 
thought it had. So, she thought the £100 HSBC had already offered was fair. Mr T disagreed 
and repeated his earlier points.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain my reasons why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts account says the following about depositing foreign 
currency cheques:
If [the cheque is] in a different currency to the account, well convert this to pounds 
sterling first. Well use our standard exchange rate.
The terms make it clear that the rate applied will be HSBCs own rate. And, when asked, 
HSBC told Mr T that this rate was made up of the mid-market rate plus the banks own 
margin.
Its not unusual for banks to apply margins to its rates. Its also not the role of this service to 
tell a bank how to calculate the rates it uses. I know Mr T would like to know exactly how 
HSBC determined its rate, and the margin it applied. But as HSBC has already explained, 
this would require it to disclose commercially sensitive information. And, I dont think HSBC 
was under any duty to give him this information. 
Mr T says he was given misleading information about the rate that would be used when he 
went into branch initially. He says he was told HSBC would use the rate recognised by most 
banks on the day the cheque credited his account. I dont think Mr T was necessarily given 
wrong information here. I say this because the rate HSBC uses is based on the interbank 
mid-market rate, which is essentially the same as the rate recognised by most banks. It then 
adds its own margins, which is likely to be what all banks would do. So, I dont think that    
Mr T was given wrong information about this.
In any case, even if HSBC had provided a more detailed explanation, which included 
information about the interbank mid-market rate plus a margin, this still wouldnt have told  
Mr T what rate would apply and how that compared to other rates. This is because the rate 
wouldnt be known until the exchange was due to take place  which couldve been 
anywhere up to eight weeks in the future. So, Im not persuaded things wouldve been 
significantly different for him, or that he wouldve cashed it in any other way. Mr T refers to a 
globally accepted rate, but this wouldnt be a rate he wouldve had access to. 
Ive considered that Mr T says he wasnt given terms and conditions at the point he went to 
pay the cheque in, and only given a hand-written slip, which he thought was unprofessional. 
But as this was a cheque deposited into his HSBC account, the relevant terms here are the 
personal banking terms of his HSBC account. I dont think HSBC needed to give him 
additional terms and conditions at the point he paid the cheque in. 
As I understand it, Mr T was given hand-written slip to acknowledge receipt of his cheque. 
He wouldve preferred a more formal acknowledgement. Mr T is entitled to preferences. But 
an acknowledgement is what was needed, and an acknowledgement is what he received.
I recognise Mr T wouldve been disappointed with the fact that he was given less money 
than he expected and frustrated that the letter he received didnt have the content it should 
have. I think the £100 HSBC has offered is enough to recognise this disappointment and 
frustration.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont require HSBC Bank plc 
to make any further award to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman