DRN-1601720
 
The complaint
Miss M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss M bought the PPI policy in 2000 when taking out a credit card. The PPI provided cover 
for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case. Having done so, Im not upholding it 
for reasons that Ill explain.
I think RBS made Miss M aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Miss Ms signed credit card 
application form from the time of sale. On the form, in a separate section for the PPI headed 
Card Payment Protection, I can see Miss M ticked a box to show she wanted PPI. So, I 
think RBS made it clear to Miss M that the PPI was optional and that she actively decided to 
take it. But this sale was a very long time ago, so I can understand why she may not 
remember this now.
RBS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M and I think this is likely to have been the 
case. This is because I havent seen anything to suggest that RBS assessed Miss Ms 
circumstances and made a formal recommendation that she take out the PPI. This means 
RBS didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss M 
got the information she needed to decide this for herself. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I dont think better 
information would have changed her mind about taking it. I say this because:
 
Miss M appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations.
 Miss M says she was entitled to generous sick pay and redundancy compensation 
from her employer. But this policy would have paid out in addition to this and for 
longer than she would have been paid full sick pay. It would have protected her card 
repayments for up to twelve months if she was unable to work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. And she chose to take out the policy so it looks 
like she was interested in this type of cover and would have valued the extra security 
it gave her.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Miss M. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her 
needs.
 
So I dont think Miss M has lost out by anything that RBS may have done wrong when it sold 
her this PPI policy.
This means RBS doesnt have to compensate Miss M for all of the cost of the PPI. But RBS 
does have to compensate Miss M for some of the cost of the PPI because:
 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because RBS didnt tell Miss M, 
that was unfair.
 
To put that right, RBS has compensated Miss M for the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to 
compensate Miss M for all of the cost she paid for the PPI. But 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to compensate Miss M for any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28July2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman