DRN-2495050
The complaint
Mr M had a motor insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He thinks 
Admiral and its agent provided poor service and caused him financial loss.  
What happened
Mr M told Admiral on 18 August 2019 that the rear window of his car had been damaged 
when someone broke into it. Admiral arranged for firm A to deal with the issue. Mr M says 
firm As technician couldnt replace the glass - but that he damaged the window mechanism 
and the door panel. Mr M says one of firm As inspectors told him the door panel had been 
removed incorrectly, that the technician sent to do the work wasnt trained to carry out the 
repair and that he was subject to disciplinary proceedings for previous poor work. Mr M said 
he wanted Admiral or its agent to pay the £754.01 a specialist garage had charged him to 
repair the damage, plus £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
 
Admiral had already paid Mr M £150 compensation for poor service, including not returning a 
call to him to understand his situation better and to give him more information. In addition, 
firm A had paid Mr  M £100 compensation for the time it took to conduct its investigation into 
his concerns. But firm A said its technician had advised Mr M straight away that he was 
unable to replace the glass, due to damage caused to the window regulator during the break 
in. The technician said when that damage was repaired, firm A would replace the glass. Firm 
A said Mr M reported damage to the interior trim well after the specialist garage had done 
the repairs, so it couldnt be shown when that damage occurred.
 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He said there was no evidence that 
the technician had damaged the window mechanism, as hed recorded on the job sheet 
dated 22 August 2019 that it wasnt working prior to his (the technicians) visit. The 
investigator thought if the technician had damaged the mechanism or the door panel, Mr M 
would have complained about that promptly to firm A or Admiral. He said as Mr M hadnt 
reported the damage to the trim until long after the specialist garage had repaired the initial 
damage, it could have happened there (or elsewhere). 
Mr M asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my opinion, Mr M hasnt provided anything to show that the technician damaged the cars 
door. The job sheet (signed by Mr M) just records that Mr M was advised to get the regulator 
repaired, so firm A could then fit the glass. I think if there had been any obvious damage to 
the car  or Mr M thought the technician had done something wrong  its very likely he 
would have mentioned it to Admirals advisor during the initial call he made after firm A was 
unable to carry out the work. 
It looks as though Mr M believes the technician is to blame because firm As inspector 
apparently said that was the case, some two months after the event. I think its surprising 
that one of firm As inspectors accepted blame for a colleagues errors and discussed a 
colleagues personal work record with a customer. But theres no evidence that these 
comments were made. The inspector didnt record anything to that effect on the job sheet 
when he inspected the car. He said ...customer says we broke window mechanism. Nor is 
there any reference to the technicians alleged errors in firm As notes or Admirals notes. So 
I dont think Mr M can rely on these comments to support his case. 
Firm A says its technicians arent employed to do anything other than fit the glass. It says if it 
was clear that there was a problem (such as the mechanism not moving) the technician 
wouldnt necessarily have needed to remove a door panel to note it and to advise the 
customer to get the problem repaired at a garage. And the technician didnt say he had to 
remove a door panel. He only recorded on the job sheet mech not working not going up or 
down come off runners leather damaged from glass advised customer to go to body shop to 
fix regulator and call us to fit glass. 
As Mr M is complaining about Admiral and the actions of its agent in damaging his car, he 
has to be able to show that its more likely than not that the technician caused the damage. I 
dont think Mr M has been able to do that. In my opinion, theres nothing to show that the 
damage wasnt caused by whoever broke into the car. In the absence of evidence to the 
contrary, I think thats more likely than not to be what happened. 
In the call Mr M made to Admiral informing it that firm A wasnt able to replace the glass, he 
told the advisor hed already booked the car into a specialist garage the next morning for an 
assessment. Presumably that was due to the technician having told him the regulator had to 
be repaired. The advisor told him there were benefits to using one of Admirals approved 
garages, but Mr M said if any bodywork needed to be done, he would only allow it to be 
carried out at a specialist garage. The advisor then said she could look at specialist garages 
for Mr M. So I think Mr M was made aware that he could make a claim and that Admiral 
wouldnt object to the work being done at a specialist garage.
What Mr M seemed to be unhappy about during the call was that firm A couldnt replace the 
glass (for a £98 excess) as expected. So the advisor said shed contact firm A to check why 
not. Firm A then told her that the technician had said the regulator was broken, which had 
prevented him  from carrying out the glass replacement. Unfortunately, Admirals advisor 
didnt call Mr M back with an update as promised, which I think was a significant omission. 
Whilst I think Admiral was at fault due to its poor contact, it seems Mr M didnt contact 
Admiral or firm A again before authorising all the repair work with the specialist garage. I 
dont think that was reasonable, especially as liability hadnt been accepted. The door was 
repaired (and the glass replaced) at the specialist garage on 16 September 2019. Mr M 
presented the bill for the work soon after that, but he didnt report the damage to the cars 
interior trim until 14 October 2019.
In my opinion, it was reasonable for Admirals agent not to accept that the initial damage  or 
the damage to the internal trim  were caused by its technician, as there was no evidence of 
it. Admiral would have paid for the necessary work had Mr M made a claim on the policy, but 
I think hed have had to make a second claim had he required cover for the damage that was 
found later on. As Admiral wouldnt have been able to recoup its outlay, I think its likely that 
there would then have been two fault claims within a very short time on Mr Ms driving 
record, which would have led to a rise in his future premiums. 
It seems Mr M decided not to make a claim on his policy because he firmly believed that 
Admiral or firm A should and would pay for the repairs. So he went ahead with them despite firm A not accepting blame for the damage. Ultimately, I think Admiral is responsible for firm 
A, as in this case it was acting as Admirals agent. But I dont think theres evidence of fault 
on firm As part - and Mr M chose not to make a claim on the policy. In these circumstances I 
dont think Admiral or its agent should have to pay for the work done to Mr Ms car. 
I think the £150 compensation Admiral paid Mr M for distress and inconvenience was in line 
with the sum wed have awarded him otherwise, largely for its poor contact. And firm A paid 
Mr M £100 for delay, which I think seems fair. Taking everything into account, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to require more compensation to be paid to Mr M. 
As I dont think Admiral and its agent acted unreasonably - except in relation to the issues for 
which adequate compensation has been paid - I cant uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman