DRN-4051980
The complaint
Mr C complained about The Co-operative Bank plcs actions when he reported a fraudulent 
transaction on his account. 
What happened
Late at night on 30 June 2021, Mr C received a call from a convincing scammer who said he 
was from the Co-ops security team. Mr C said the caller started trying to use his address 
and card details during the call to buy things, the first being a £95 pair of shoes, from a 
company which Ill call A. Mr C was suspicious, and rang the 24-hour Co-op fraud line. The 
Co-op confirmed that it was a scam, blocked Mr Cs debit card, and said it had stopped the 
£95 payment.
On 2 July, Mr C received a pair of shoes. He rang the seller, company A, and explained. The 
company told him that a completely different email address from Mr Cs had been used to 
make the order. It confirmed that payment hadnt yet been received. It changed the email 
address to Mr Cs email address, and used this to send him a return label for the shoes. Mr 
C returned the shoes the same day, and had a tracking receipt showing they were delivered 
to the seller two days later. Mr C also rang the Co-ops fraud team on 2 July to update them. 
Mr C told the Co-ops fraud team that he had given the scam caller his address, because 
that had seemed a normal thing to be asked for. He thought the fraudster had used his 
address to send the goods to as the next step in the scam, and that the scammer would then 
have gone on to order other goods to be delivered to the scammers own address. 
The Co-op adviser said that it was too late to stop the £95 payment having gone through, but 
Mr C would be refunded within 48 hours. She also advised Mr C to contact Action Fraud, to 
check his credit file in case any new credit applications had been taken out in his name, and 
to be wary about social media. Mr C told her hed also had an approach for £2 which had 
been said to be going to the NHS, which had also seemed genuine. No debit appeared on 
Mr Cs account.
About two and a half months later, on 15 September, the Co-op emailed Mr C saying that 
the merchant had told the Co-op that the order included Mr Cs name, address, and email. 
The Co-op said it now believed the transaction had been authorised. It said it would debit 
£95 from Mr Cs account. 
Mr C replied straightaway. He said the supposed evidence was wrong, and the seller had 
confirmed to him that the fraudster had used a different email. He also said that hed 
returned the shoes the same day hed received them. He also emailed proof that company A 
had confirmed his real email hadnt been used, and also sent the Co-op proof that hed 
returned the shoes.
Mr C didnt get a reply, and chased the Co-op on 6 October.
The Co-op replied on 12 October. The email said it was odd that a different email had been 
used, but said that the goods had been delivered to Mr Cs address, which wouldnt benefit a 
fraudster, so it was still going to debit Mr Cs account.
Mr C couldnt get through to anyone by phone, so he emailed. He said that was completely 
unacceptable, and hed provided convincing evidence from the seller that his genuine email 
hadnt been used for the original order. He said it was entirely plausible that company A now 
had his email address, because hed contacted them about the fraud. Hed also returned the 
shoes immediately, and said that the Co-op didnt have any authority to go ahead and debit 
his account. Mr C said that if the Co-op did debit his account, hed take it further, and would 
also close his very long-standing Co-op account.
The Co-op went ahead with debiting Mr Cs account with £95. 
Mr C managed to get through to the Co-op by phone on 13 October. The adviser said it 
would have been a genuine transaction in June. Mr C asked to speak to the fraud team. The 
adviser said he couldnt, but didnt give a reason.  The adviser registered a complaint for Mr 
C, but at the end of the call, told Mr C that the complaint wouldnt be upheld.
The Co-op issued its final response to Mr Cs complaint the same day. This said that 
following the phone conversation it had believed his complaint had been resolved.
Mr C didnt agree. He transferred his banking to another provider in early November 2021, 
and contacted this service.
Meanwhile Mr C had also contacted the merchant after the Co-op had debited his account 
on 12 October. The merchant refunded him on 15 October. 
Mr C told this service that the Co-op had treated him badly, incompetently and 
unprofessionally by taking the £95 from his account contrary to the banking code; had put 
him to unnecessary stress, wasted time and inconvenience; and had impugned his integrity 
and reputation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said that when Mr C had first 
complained, the Co-op had put the £95 payment into a suspense account and had raised a 
chargeback with the seller. And the seller had refused the chargeback as it had delivered the 
goods, and his name, address and email had been used. The investigator said that a 
chargeback would only have a slim prospect of success because goods had been sent out, 
so she thought the Co-ops decision not to pursue the chargeback was fair and reasonable. 
Also, by this point Mr C had received a refund from the seller.
Mr C didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He sent a very long and detailed 
disagreement with each point of the investigators view, and each point of her subsequent 
reply to his response. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision.  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.In my provisional decision, I explained that Mr C had raised multiple points in his 
submissions to the service. I said that Id understood all of those and considered all hes said 
and sent us, but in reaching my decision Id focused on what I thought was vital to my 
conclusions.
The starting point here was that when Mr C raised his concerns about the transaction with 
Co-op  it should have looked into the dispute and helped him with his concerns. Because of 
the nature of the transaction and Mr Cs reasons for disputing it, there were a few different 
ways that Co-op could have done this. Co-op elected to deal with the dispute by raising a 
chargeback. So I first considered whether it was fair it did that.
A chargeback is a process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers 
(here, the Co-op) and merchants (here, company A) under the relevant card scheme (the 
business that runs the payment network and chargeback scheme). Mr C had queried the 
organisation which replied to the Co-ops chargeback, and believed the use of that 
organisation undermines the outcome. However, the organisation is a large international 
financial services company which the merchant chose to use to send its reply. Its use didnt 
jeopardise the validity of the response it provided, or mean that the correct process wasnt 
followed here.
But while I appreciated that a payment service provider could use a chargeback as one way 
of dealing with a dispute of this nature, that wont always give enough information or 
consider the overall circumstances. Here, all that the evidence which came back as a result 
of the chargeback was Mr Cs name, address and the disputed email address, which Mr C 
had already provided.
In certain circumstances, a chargeback can be a helpful and valid way of helping a customer 
raise a dispute. I said that I could see why Co-op raised the dispute as one here - where 
goods were delivered to the paying persons address and many details matched up with Mr 
Cs genuine details. It initially looked very much like a legitimate transaction, so a 
chargeback as a way of understanding the merchants version of events might have helped. 
But the fairness or otherwise of using a chargeback as a way of fulfilling its obligations still 
comes down to individual circumstances. 
As Co-op raised a chargeback, Mr C was given the money he was disputing as a temporary 
credit while it investigated the dispute in more detail. On 12 October Co-op debited his 
account and considered the dispute resolved. So I went on to consider whether Co-op 
should have done any more here.
Regulations
Mr C said he didnt actually make the payment. In these circumstances there are regulations 
which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
The Payment Services Regulations also set out rules relating to Distance contracts. A 
distance contract is one which uses distance communication, and is carried out without the 
physical presence of the trader or consumer, eg buying clothes online or tickets by phone. 
Except where the payer (Mr C) has acted fraudulently  which isnt alleged here  the payer 
isnt liable for distance transactions if they didnt authorise the transaction.
Given what these regulations say, I thought that Co-op should always have considered how 
these applied to the dispute Mr C raised.If Co-op had done this then there are several things I think it would have seen, for example:
- I saw several months of Mr Cs Co-op bank statements. There were no similar 
transactions, either debit card distance contracts, or to buy shoes in this price range. 
- I also noted that the merchants website appears to show that it was a company 
based abroad and conducted its UK business solely online. That too was out of 
character for Mr Cs transaction history.
- The IP address (unique computer identifier) for the disputed transaction was located 
in a large city more than 200 miles from where Mr C lived.
- From the type of transactions on Mr Cs statement, I also thought that the late-night 
timing of the transaction would have been out of character too. 
- I also bore in mind that Mr C reported the scam call to the Co-op overnight on 30 
June, as soon as it had happened, and asked for the payment to be stopped as a 
fraud. I didnt think it was likely that Mr C would have done this, or immediately 
returned the shoes to the seller, if hed authorised the transaction. If hed ordered the 
shoes then changed his mind, he could just have got a refund by returning them to 
company A. 
I accepted that it was unusual the goods in dispute here were ordered to Mr Cs name and 
address and received by him. But he also acted genuinely when he became aware of the 
transaction and received the goods. So I thought Co-op should always have considered his 
dispute in the context of the regulations here.
Its not clear what outcome it would have reached here and, fortunately, Mr C received a 
refund just three days after Co-op debited his account. But it wasnt helpful when Co-op said 
that it couldnt do any more to help him. So I thought about the service it provided around 
this dispute.
Having done so, I thought Mr C did suffer some frustration, shock, and inconvenience. In his 
call on 2 July, the Co-op reassured him, gave him useful advice about scams, and told him 
the money would be refunded within 48 hours. In fact no debit was made to his account at 
that point, but it would have been reasonable for Mr C to assume this was because a 
corresponding credit had been sorted out. So it would have been a nasty shock to receive an 
email on 15 September saying that the Co-op had decided that the transaction had been 
authorised, and it would debit the money. 
It was also very difficult for Mr C to get his complaint looked at seriously by the Co-op after it 
had relied solely on the chargeback. The fact that it didnt do so is evidenced by the fact that 
in his complaint call of 13 October, his dispute was rejected immediately by the call handler, 
and a final response letter was sent the same day. 
Co-ops responsibility under the Payment Services Regulations was to decide whether or not 
it believed Mr C had authorised the payment. In view of the wider circumstances here, I 
consider that obligation wasnt satisfied by the chargeback alone here. In relying solely on 
the chargeback, the Co-op didnt take into account the other evidence it had, which Ive set 
out in the section above about whether or not Mr C authorised the payment. 
Compensation
When considering compensation, we generally do so in two ways: financial loss, and 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Looking first at financial loss, Mr Cs account was debited with the £95 on 12 October 2021 
and he received a refund from the merchant on 15 October 2021. This was shortly before he switched his account away from the Co-op, so the money was in a low-interest account. So I 
find there was no significant financial loss.
I then looked at compensation for distress and inconvenience. Id set out in my provisional 
decision that I thought the Co-ops decision to rely solely on a chargeback mechanism did 
disadvantage Mr C, because it led to distress and inconvenience. That was through the 
shock of the 15 September notice that the payment was considered authorised and would be 
debited, and in the way the complaint was turned down immediately when it was raised on 
13 October with no real consideration.
I also considered the Co-ops customer service towards Mr C.  In the call on 2 July, I 
considered the Co-ops adviser handled the call well. She was empathetic about the 
cleverness of the scammer, helpful with fraud advice and pointed Mr C in the direction of 
needing to check his credit file too. She was also reassuring about the outcome, saying it 
would be credited within 48 hours. Where the Co-ops customer service went wrong was 
after this.
As far as Mr C knew after that call, the Co-op had accepted what hed said about having 
been scammed, and there wasnt going to be any more trouble. The Co-op didnt tell Mr C 
that it was going to decide the outcome by sending a chargeback to company A. So the first 
Mr C knew about the Co-op possibly rejecting his report of fraud was in the 15 September 
email which said the Co-op now believed the transaction had been authorised and would be 
debited. After Mr C responded by emailing evidence from company A about the email 
address, and proof that hed returned the shoes, it was nearly another month before the Co-
op replied, and when it did, it was just to say that it was going ahead with debiting Mr Cs 
account anyway.
Ive listened to the call recording from that call, and although the adviser took details from Mr 
C, the complaint was turned down at the end of the call and the final response letter was 
sent the next day. So Im not persuaded that the Co-op looked in any significant detail at 
what Mr C was saying. That might have been reasonable if it had been very clear that Mr C 
had fraudulently carried out the transaction himself with a clear purpose of fraudulently 
claiming back the money. But that wasnt the situation here. 
Finally, Mr C had argued strongly that he believed the Co-op was impugning his reputation 
by not believing his version of events. He said he was a very long-term customer. But banks 
do have to exercise caution, and look at the individual transaction rather than just the long-
term nature of the banking relationship. 
This service doesnt fine or punish financial businesses, as thats the role of the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But we do award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience which is caused by a banks actions. Being the victim of a scam does result in 
distress and inconvenience, and I couldnt attribute that to the Co-op. But as set out above, I 
found that the Co-op added to Mr Cs distress, inconvenience and frustration by the way it 
dealt with this. Taking all the issues into account, I considered that a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for the Co-op to pay Mr C would be £150.
Responses to my provisional decision
The Co-op said that it had reviewed the provisional decision, and it had no additional points 
it would like to make.
Mr C said he was pleased to see that I was inclined to support his complaint. But he said he 
was uncomfortable with the factual accuracy of some things in my decision, and puzzled by 
others. He sent a detailed, word-by-word, commentary on every line of the provisional decision. Mr C also said that he although hed asked us for copies of all the evidence from 
the Co-op, he hadnt received any call recordings.
We sent Mr C a copy of the call recordings and gave him extra time to consider these.
Mr C then responded with further word-by-word commentary on the provisional decision, 
adding to his previous comments. Mr C also said that in addition to the £150 compensation, 
hed like a written apology from the Co-op.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent quoted, or responded here in writing, to every one of Mr Cs many comments in his 
response to the provisional decision. This is for the sake of conciseness. Where I feel its 
appropriate, however, Ive made minor changes to my wording above about what happened 
in relation to Mr Cs complaint. As before, Ive understood his points and have considered all 
hes said and sent us, but in reaching my decision I have focused on what I think is vital to 
my conclusions.
The comments which Mr C raised havent changed my view of the merits of his case, nor my 
view of how it should be resolved. Ive considered Mr Cs request for a written apology from 
the Co-op in addition to the £150 compensation. But apologies which result from an order 
are rarely sincere, so I dont think that would add anything here.
I find that my original conclusion was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I order The Co-operative Bank plc to pay 
Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman