DRN-3905271
The complaint
Mr F complains that car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA) with Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) No 2  PLC (TFS) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to reject the 
car and be compensated for loss of earnings as well as distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr F took out his HPA for a three-year-old car with approximately 13000 miles on the 
clock  in April 2022. Although used cars might reasonably have more wear and tear 
issues than new ones we do expect them to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. Its 
clear from the information I have seen that Mr F had problems with noise when using 
the car within weeks of  getting it. When issues arise within six months of purchase 
we usually say its the business responsibility to see if there is a point of sale issue 
for which it is responsible.  
I have seen the job card completed by the dealership in May 2022  which confirmed 
a noise with the brakes. It carried out some deglazing work but  couldnt find other 
issues. Mr F had the car looked at by another garage on 10 June 2022 who were 
able to replicate the noise but couldnt pinpoint the exact problem. Finally, Mr F 
supplied video evidence of a mechanic inspecting the car. This mechanic replicated 
the noise which he felt indicated too much movement in the engine and gear box. He 
did say this could be down to wear and tear but also noted that as Mr F hadnt had 
the car that long he felt it was unlikely and recommended further inspection. From all 
this information I am persuaded there was an issue from within weeks of Mr F getting 
the car that wasnt resolved by the deglazing work the dealership carried out.
I am surprised, given how early in Mr Fs HP agreement the issues arouse that TFS 
didnt commission an independent report. And given the comments by the mechanic 
on the video about further investigation I have considered if it would be reasonable to 
ask for this. However as the car has been looked at by at least three individuals all of 
whom found an issue but werent able to definitively identify what the problem was or 
to resolve it an independent report may be similarly inconclusive and would further 
delay resolving Mr Fs complaint. So, I have concluded it is fair to go with the 
evidence that I have.
I have considered TFSs points that Mr F uses the car for business and as such uses 
more mileage than he would if the car were just for personal use. That is a fair point 
but  the issues arose so soon after Mr F got the car that I dont think its reasonable 
to conclude that his use of the car solely  caused the issue. Also, although the car is 
a used one given the age and mileage I think Mr F could have reasonably expected 
to have use of it for some time before issues arose.
I think its fair to allow Mr F to reject the car and I agree with the redress our 
investigator suggested as detailed below. I dont think I can reasonably ask TFS to 
compensate Mr F for lost earnings as he has requested  he hasnt evidenced this. 
Nor  do I think its reasonable to refund any further investigative work Mr F has 
sought since we didnt ask him to do this during the investigation
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Toyota Financial Services (UK) No 2  PLC should :-
Collect the car from Mr F at no cost to him.
End Mr Fs agreement with nothing further to pay and refund Mr Fs deposit with 8% 
simple yearly interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 10% of the monthly payments Mr F made from the date of the agreement to 
the date of settlement  to cover loss or impaired use of the car with 8% simple yearly 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of the diagnostic report Mr F commissioned (£45)
Pay Mr F £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Remove any adverse data relating to this agreement from Mr Fs credit file in relation 
to this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman