DRN-2336234
The complaint
Mr A complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited has accepted liability for an 
accident that he says wasnt his fault. 
What happened
Mr A had a car insurance policy that was underwritten by Calpe. In May 2019 he was 
involved in an incident with another vehicle. The other driver made a claim which Calpe were 
notified of a few days later. They said that Mr A had driven into the back of their car.
Calpe contacted Mr A about the claim. He disputed the other drivers account and said he 
had been stationary in traffic and the other drivers car had reversed back and into the front 
of his vehicle. 
As there were two versions of events Calpe instructed an investigator to look into it further. 
He interviewed Mr A and a witness. He concluded that there were inconstancies in Mr As 
accounts. Based on this Calpe accepted liability for the incident.
Mr A didnt think this was fair. He said his version of events was supported by an 
independent witness, so this should prove he wasnt at fault. He brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said she thought Calpe had made its decision based on recommendations from its 
investigator and she thought based on the evidence this was a fair decision.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A isnt happy with Calpes decision to hold him at fault for the incident thats been 
reported. It isnt this services role to say whos at fault for causing an accident, as that is the 
responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Calpe has carried out a fair 
investigation, collected and reviewed all relevant evidence and come to a fair and 
reasonable decision.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy states as follows:
The Company shall have full power to conduct the defence, admit negligence for any 
accident or claim on Your behalf
This is a common term that is present in most car insurance policies and put simply it means 
the insurer has the final say about whether a claim is defended or settled. So by agreeing to 
settle the other drivers claim, Calpe are acting within the terms of policy. 
However I still need to be satisfied that Calpe has acted fairly when reaching this decision. 
After Calpe received notification of the claim, it contacted Mr A for his version of events. This 
was provided and as the events were disputed, it instructed a full investigation. I can see that 
the investigator visited Mr A to conduct an interview. They also contacted the impartial 
witness. The investigator also looked at photos of the road where the accident took place 
and drew a diagram of the event as described by Mr A. Based on this I am satisfied that 
Calpe collected all the relevant evidence in order to make its decision.
After collecting the evidence the investigator put together a report containing his findings. He 
provided the statement given by Mr A during the face to face interview and pointed out that 
this differed from the original statement submitted to the insurer. In the first statement Mr A 
said that the car had reversed into his own when trying to pull into a bus lane. However 
when asked by the investigator he said it had rolled back and hit him while they were both 
queuing in traffic.
Mr A has said that his choice of words doesnt mean he was inconsistent. He says that the 
car went into his own vehicle and he wasnt sure how this happened. While I appreciate that 
the two versions are similar, I can also understand why the inconsistencies in Mr As version 
of events gave Calpe cause for concern. 
Further the investigator provided photos of the road where the incident took place. From the 
photos there is no incline on the road, so it seems unlikely that the car would have rolled 
back and hit Mr As. 
Mr A has provided the details of an impartial witness. He says that his statement proves his 
own version of events. I have considered the statement from the witness. Although it does 
match Mr As initial statement about the car reversing into his own, it doesnt match 
everything Mr A said about what happened next. Further, Calpes investigator said he didnt 
consider the witness to be reliable due the fact he approached Mr A a number of hours after 
the incident occurred rather than at the scene which is unusual. 
Considering all the evidence together I think Calpe has acted fairly and reasonably by 
accepting liability for the claim. Mr A has provided inconsistent reports of the event and the 
report from the witness doesnt entirely match the account he has given. As Calpe has had 
to consider the other drivers version of events against Mr As, it has had to decide what is 
most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities and I think, based on the 
evidence considered, it had come to a fair decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman