DRN-4516556
The complaint
Mr P complains that AJ Bell Management Limited failed to carry out appropriate due 
diligence on an investment he intended to make before accepting it into his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr P applied for a SIPP with AJ Bell in February 2010 through his independent financial 
adviser, a business Ill call Firm A.
Firm A was an appointed representative (AR) of TenetConnect Limited between 
21 July 2008 and 30 September 2014. 
The SIPP application form had an Investment Options section, where Mr P was asked to 
specify his chosen investment option out of the following:
Advisory
Investment Partner
Execution Only
None of these options were marked but beside them, someone had written, OFF PANEL 
INVESTMENT EXECUTION ONLY.
In the Adviser Details section, a stamp was placed with the details of Firm A. And the 
application stated that Firm A should receive 3% of the pension transfer value.
Mr P signed the SIPP application form declaration on 26 February 2010, which included a 
declaration where off panel investments were to be made. By signing the declaration, Mr P 
agreed that AJ Bell could accept instructions from his adviser in relation to off panel 
investments. 
The SIPP application was accepted by AJ Bell and it was opened in March 2010. On 
24 March 2010, around £14,000 was transferred to the SIPP from Mr Ps existing personal 
pension.
In May 2010 AJ Bell received an Off Panel Investment Instruction from Firm A on Mr Ps 
behalf to invest in a company  Ill refer to this as the investment. It also received an 
application form for the investment, and a declaration confirmed the client had read and 
understood the terms and conditions relating to the investment. 
AJ Bell was also sent a Collective Investment Schemes  Declaration for non-UK regulated 
and/or illiquid investments form completed for Mr P, which set out some of the risks 
associated with investments of this nature. The form included a Declaration by Financial 
Adviser which stated the following:
I confirm that I have made the client aware of the risk factors and terms and conditions for 
the investment named above, set out in the key features and/or prospectus and other 
documentation provided, and the issues set out above.
I confirm that the client has been made aware of the above issues and notwithstanding, still 
wishes to proceed with the investment.
I confirm neither AJ Bell Management Limited nor Sippdeal Trustees Limited has provided 
any advice to the client on the suitability of this investment for their pension arrangement. I 
understand that neither AJ Bell Management Limited nor Sippdeal Trustees Limited accept 
any liability for any issues that may arise in respect of the investment.
Firm A signed this declaration on 24 May 2010.
The investment Mr P made took the form of shares in an unlisted company and the business 
of the company was property development. It intended to purchase land adjacent to a golf 
course in Spain with a view to acquiring planning permission and then building a number of 
luxury villas on in it. The life span of the investment was forecast to be five to ten years.
Mr P was part of a group of investors (family and friends) who had all decided to make the 
investment together.
AJ Bell was sent an Off Panel Investment Declaration, which Mr P signed on 5 July 2010. 
By signing this, Mr P agreed that he authorised AJ Bell to accept investment instructions 
from Firm A.
AJ Bell received additional instruction forms, application forms and Collective Investment 
Schemes Declarations between June and September 2010. Mr P invested a total of around 
£26,000 in the investment.
Mr P complained to AJ Bell in April 2019; he said AJ Bell had failed to carry out full and 
detailed due diligence of the investment before allowing it into his SIPP.
AJ Bell didnt agree it had done anything wrong by accepting the application from Mr P to 
make the investment. It said Mr P had appointed Firm A to be his financial adviser and 
Firm A had submitted the SIPP application to it, as well as the investment instruction. AJ Bell 
said it did not provide Mr P with any financial advice; that Mr P had agreed with its SIPP 
terms and conditions outlining this and that Mr P agreed AJ Bell could accept investment 
instructions from Firm A.
AJ Bell said that the investment was permitted to be held in the SIPP under HMRC rules and 
it had carried out a reasonable amount of due diligence checks on the investment before 
accepting it. It said this was in line with good industry practice for a SIPP operator, in order 
to establish:
the nature and legal structure of the investment;
that it was a genuine investment and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent activity, 
money laundering or pensions liberation;
that appropriate custody arrangements were in place in order to ensure that the 
investment was safe and secure, and
that the investment could be independently valued at the point of purchase and 
subsequently.Ultimately AJ Bell said it was fair for it to have accepted the investment into Mr Ps SIPP and 
that it understood Firm A had advised him to make the investment. Any concerns he had 
about the suitability of the investment for him was the responsibility of Firm A.
Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in December 2019. He 
said hed made his complaint alongside a group of other investors whod lost money by 
making the investment. Mr P alleged that AJ Bell was in breach of the Principles for 
Businesses and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook. He also cited Berkeley Burke Sipp 
Administration Ltd v Financial Ombudsman Service Ltd (2018) EWHC 2878 (Admin.) which 
he said established that SIPP providers, such as AJ Bell, were required to carry out due 
diligence on any investment proposition before accepting it into the SIPP.
Mr P said the investment was plainly inappropriate as a vehicle to be offered by AJ Bell to 
the public. This was because the investment opportunity was purely speculative, there were 
conflicts of interest and no independent valuations or assessments of the land had been 
carried out, as per the Investment Memorandum. 
The investment company was dissolved in March 2021. In June 2021, AJ Bell wrote to Mr P, 
saying that because the company had been dissolved, his investment was likely to have no 
discernible value and so it had removed the investment from his SIPP. It added that because 
the investment had now been finalised, it had arranged for the SIPP to be closed and the 
cash balance to be deducted as a final administration/closure charge.
The Investigator asked Mr P to explain how he had come to make the investment. Mr P said:
For some years I had already been investing in land and property abroad along with a group 
of friends. The person who the group used to arrange the purchases of these properties in 
Spain and other Countries was a person called [Mr S] who was an acting agent for the 
developer company...
At some stage, the idea came about that some members of our group would use their 
pensions to make a further investment in a piece of undeveloped land in Spain
a family friend mentioned that he was transferring his pension and for the monies
to be used to purchase shares in a Spanish company called [the investment].
[The investment company] was the owner of a piece of land [in Spain]. The plan was for the 
land to be developed over a 10-year time scale into villas and apartments, and eventually 
sold for a profit. Because [the family friend] who I trusted decided to go ahead with these 
pension transfers, I decided I would do also.
After I decided I wanted to transfer my pension, [Mr S] our existing contact introduced me to 
a financial advisor, I understood I would need a financial advisor to assist me in transferring 
the pension to AJ Bell. After speaking with the financial advisor, he informed me that he 
could not give me any advice or recommendations either for the transferring the pension and 
investing the money into [the investment]. I understood that the level of service he provided 
me with was on an execution-only basis.
Mr P said that in effect, because other members of the group had already decided to move 
their pensions to make the investment, he decided to do so as well. And Mr S, who hed 
known for a number of years, had already assisted him in making direct investments into 
another property investment in Spain. Mr P said he understood the land being developed 
was being purchased at 50% of its actual value and he could possibly see a return of 150%. 
Mr P said he thought the investment was relatively low risk as he was investing in a piece of 
land at 50% of its actual value.When asked about what he understood AJ Bells role to be, Mr P said he thought it was 
simply to facilitate the investment. However, he said he now knew that they were the 
pension trustees, and that this required them to carry out detailed due diligence into the 
investment before accepting it into the SIPP. He also felt AJ Bell had failed to stop an 
individual Ill refer to as Mr D, who he believed to be a Director of the investment company, 
from selling the land and pocketing the proceeds, particularly as AJ Bell had, by this time, 
already reported him to Action Fraud.
Mr P later reiterated that he received no advice from Firm A and Firm A had nothing to do 
with his decision to move his pension. He said he recalled signing a document confirming 
that he hadnt received any advice from Firm A, but could not locate a copy of it. Mr P said 
he had no intention of making a complaint about Firm A; it was his decision to make the 
investment.
Our Investigator asked AJ Bell to provide its file and asked questions about the due diligence 
checks it had carried out on Firm A and the investment so that they could consider the 
complaint.
AJ Bell provided additional information about Firm A and other investors whod complained 
about Firm As involvement. It said that it was aware of four complaints having been made 
about Firm A by customers whod made the same investment via an AJ Bell SIPP. AJ Bell 
said the Financial Ombudsman Service had issued decisions on those cases, none of which 
were upheld. It provided a copy of published decision and gave the references of the other 
three cases. It said in each case the Ombudsman had found that Firm A should not have 
acted for the complainant on an execution only basis. But that he thought it more likely than 
not that the complainant would have found an alternative adviser to provide advice, or found 
a SIPP operator willing to accept the investment without the involvement of a regulated 
adviser. So, he thought the pension switch and the investment wouldve gone ahead 
regardless.
AJ Bell said:
From reviewing those determinations we identified that [Firm A] had entered into an 
agreement with an unregulated introducer, who they knew would be introducing clients to 
them on the basis that [Firm A] would then arrange to open SIPPs for those clients, transfer 
their existing pension arrangements to those SIPPs and then invest in a single high risk 
unregulated investment via those SIPPs, on an execution only basis. In addition, [Firm A] 
knew that AJ Bell, as the SIPP provider, would only provide a non-advised service to those 
customers. The introducer and [Firm A] also knew that AJ Bell would not accept business 
from an unauthorised introducer, only from an adviser firm which was authorised and 
regulated by the [Financial Services Authority - FSA].
Those particular clients of Firm A were part of a group of nine friends and family who had 
each made a number of property investments, some of whom had provided witness 
statements to the FOS via TenetConnect. We do not have details of the nine individuals who 
were part of the group, nor have we had sight of those witness statements, but ask that you 
please identify whether or not [Mr P] was part of that group, or connected with that group, as 
part of your investigation.
From reviewing those determinations we also identified that [Firm A] had contacted a 
member of our telephone Adviser Support Team on 3 March 2010 and it appears there may 
have been a breakdown in our systems and controls, as a consequence of human error by 
the individual involved, who is no longer with the business, so we are not able to obtain input 
from him directly. This may have resulted in him agreeing to accept business from Firm A in relation to clients who had not been made aware of the related risks and the terms and 
conditions for the investment directly by [Firm A] or advised on the investments by [Firm A], 
because that business had been undertaken by [Firm A] on an execution only basis. 
However, the reason I refer to may is because, although we have been able to locate the 
recording of the telephone call of 3 March 2010 which is referred to in the email of that date, 
a recording of which is attached as Appendix C, we have not been able to find the recording 
of the call which preceded it and which is referred to during the call. From the content of that 
call it would appear that it was on the earlier call that [Firm A] may have indicated that he 
was not advising the clients, although he is hesitant when it comes to explaining the basis on 
which he is acting on the recording. It would appear from the content that the member of AJ 
Bells staff, who was relatively junior, did not appreciate the significance of what had been 
discussed from AJ Bells perspective and was under the impression that [Firm A] was trying 
to protect himself against a subsequent claim by the customer, as he referred to [Firm A] 
doing what he needed to do to cover himself
 We believe it clear from the circumstances of this particular case, that [Firm A] took 
advantage of the above human error by a relatively junior member of staff in order to 
introduce business to us on execution only basis, which he knew that we would not 
otherwise accept. In this regard, given the significance of the point and the extent of the risk, 
we find it difficult to believe that [Firm A] honestly believed that as a business we would be 
prepared to accept introductions on that basis, and that is why he did not formally write to us 
to confirm or otherwise endeavour to clearly document what had been agreed, which is 
what we would expect a regulated financial adviser to have done in such circumstances. 
However, notwithstanding that human error, we still believe that it was reasonable in the 
particular circumstances for us to accept the introduction and permit the investments. That is 
because this was not a situation where the management of the business had approved entry 
into an agreement or arrangement under which the business had agreed to accept the 
introduction of business on an execution-only basis to invest in a specific high-risk 
investment.
AJ Bell added that Firm A had charged the client 3% of the pension transfer value, which is 
the maximum amount it allowed as an initial advice fee, suggesting advice had been given.
AJ Bell responded as follows regarding the due diligence checks it had carried out:
Introducer due diligence
Firm A completed its adviser registration process in September 2009, during which it 
accepted AJ Bells Adviser Handshake agreement.
Following registration, AJ Bell checked that Firm A was regulated and authorised by 
the FSA (the then regulator). This confirmed Firm A had been authorised since 
21 July 2008 as an AR of TenetConnect, which had been regulated since 
1 December 2001.
It understood Firm As business model would involve the provision of a range of 
advisory services to their clients, which would include advice on opening SIPPs, the 
transfer in of existing pensions and subsequent investments. Firm A would be 
remunerated for the services they provided to their clients by the payment of adviser 
remuneration, as agreed with the client, the payment of which we would facilitate out 
of the clients SIPP.
There was no expectation as to the number of introductions AJ Bell would receive 
from Firm A, nor did it have any discussions with Firm A about its business model or 
the number of introductions that it would make.There were no further discussions with Firm A about their client process or the 
business they were referring, as the number of introductions was not material in the 
context of AJ Bells overall business.
It didnt carry out ongoing checks on Firm A specifically following the introduction, but 
it received a weekly report from the regulator notifying it of changes to the status of 
authorised firms so it could update its systems accordingly.
AJ Bell didnt pay any commission, introduction or other fees to Firm A in respect of 
introductions or otherwise.
As a matter of policy, AJ Bell does not request copies of suitability or pension transfer 
reports from authorised advisers. This is because, as a SIPP operator, providing 
pension administration services on a non-advised basis, it does not have the 
expertise or access to the required information about the customer to form a view on 
the content of the advisers suitability or pension transfer reports.
AJ Bell is not required to do so under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Rules 
or Principles, as it is not responsible for assessing the suitability or appropriateness 
of investments or products recommended by authorised advisers.
AJ Bell does not believe it is good industry practice for, nor is it reasonable to expect, 
a SIPP operator to request copies of suitability reports from FCA authorised and 
regulated advisers because by doing so they would appear to be accepting some 
degree of responsibility for the advice, and/or giving tacit approval (or rejection) of the 
regulated advice, when it is generally accepted, including by the FCA and the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in previous decisions, that is not their responsibility.
Firm A has been associated with at least 41 customers of AJ Bell since 2009, either 
as a result of them having been introduced by Firm A or the transfer in of an existing 
customer to their agency. Mr P was the 11th customer introduced by Firm A.
The number of introductions Firm A made in 2010 (when the customers who made 
the investment were introduced) accounted for 0.371% of the total business 
introduced during that period.
30 of the 41 customers introduced or associated with Firm A invested in more high-
risk and complex type of investments of the nature which Mr P selected. However, as 
the overall volume of business received from Firm A was not material in the context 
of the AJ Bell business, this was not something which caused, or should reasonably 
have caused, it to have concerns about Firm As business model.
The SIPP application and investment processes are separate, so AJ Bell would not 
know in advance of opening a SIPP account what the intended investments were.
Investment due diligence
It considered the investment to be acceptable for a SIPP under HMRCs rules at the 
time Mr P made his investment. It was not considered to be an anomalous 
investment as it was essentially a commercial property investment.
It said, Our normal custom and practice at the time in relation to the approval of 
unregulated collective investment schemes, such as [the investment], was to review 
the related product literature, in this case the Investment Memorandum, and to have 
an information request completed by the manager of the investment. However, in this 
particular case, as we had already had an information request completed by the 
same manager, [Firm W  the project manager], in relation to two other schemes with 
the same structure, we did not require a further questionnaire to be completed. That 
was because we were satisfied that the structure involved, i.e. a genuinely diverse 
commercial vehicle, was an acceptable structure for a SIPP. In particular, as the use 
of a genuinely diverse commercial vehicle was not restricted by any HMRC rules nor 
would it result in the imposition of any additional tax charges.As the investment involved raising funds to finance the future acquisition of building 
plots via a Spanish company, as opposed to an investment in an existing 
development, the extent to which we could reasonably undertake due diligence in 
relation to the underlying investment was limited by the very nature of that 
investment. There was, however, nothing to indicate that it was not a genuine 
investment, or that it was a scam or linked to any fraudulent activity, money 
laundering or pensions liberation.
We were satisfied with the custody arrangements for the investment, as it would be 
held via a shareholding in an unlisted limited company which was registered in 
England and Wales. Although illiquid in nature, we were satisfied that the investment 
would be capable of transfer to a third-party buyer introduced by a customer or his 
advisers under the constitution of the issuer if it was not purchased by other existing 
investors under their pre-emption rights. We were also satisfied that the investment 
could be transferred in specie to another pension scheme or, on death, to the 
beneficiaries under a customers SIPP.
We were also satisfied that the investment was capable of being independently 
valued on the basis set out in the Investment Memorandum.
In light of the above, [the investment] was an investment which we considered to be 
acceptable for a SIPP at the time [Mr Ps] SIPP investment was made and, as a 
consequence, we do not believe that there was any breach of our due diligence 
duties in relation to the investment.
It was Mr Ps advisers responsibility to assess its suitability and appropriateness for 
his particular circumstances and satisfy themselves that he had been made aware of 
commercial terms and related investment risks. There was nothing anomalous in the 
surrounding circumstances which was such that it could reasonably have caused 
AJ Bell to have considered it necessary to undertake any additional due diligence, as 
the underlying investment was essentially a property related investment.
It did not commission an external report, and given that this was on the face of it an 
advised investment, there was nothing in the background circumstances which was 
such that it should reasonably have prompted it to do so. Although the nature of the 
investment was such that it would not be suitable for all retail customers, it wasnt the 
case that it wouldnt be suitable for any retail customers whatsoever, and as such, 
not be an acceptable investment for a SIPP.
The investment involved raising funds to finance a speculative property purchase, the 
success of which was dependent upon planning permission for residential 
development being obtained, as opposed to an investment in an existing property 
development. So the extent of the duty imposed on AJ Bell in respect of valuation 
was not such that it needed to take any specific action in order to satisfy itself that the 
amount being subscribed by Mr Ps SIPP for his investment was fair and reasonable.
It was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case, for AJ Bell to rely on 
Mr Ps financial advisers to ensure that he was satisfied with the valuation and 
understood the other commercial terms of the investment and the related risks. It 
was, however, indicated in the Investment Memorandum that independent valuations 
had been obtained, with details being provided, which were consistent with the terms 
of the investment proposals set out in the literature.
AJ Bell didnt carry out any checks into the individuals connected with the investment.
AJ Bell didnt ask Mr P to sign any risk warnings or disclaimers, but Firm A, as his 
financial adviser, signed declarations on his behalf, confirming that the risks had 
been explained but Mr P wished to proceed.The partially completed investment application form which it received from Firm A in 
relation to the final investment made by Mr P on behalf of his SIPP in 
September 2010, had been signed by Mr P on 8 September 2010. In that form Mr P 
confirmed that he had read and understood the Information Memorandum and 
related terms and conditions for the investment and had taken appropriate 
professional advice.
AJ Bell added that it started to have concerns about Mr D in connection with another 
company he was Director of, in 2016. And this led to it referring this business to Action 
Fraud. It said it did not have any concerns about this individual when Mr P made his 
investment.
After considering all of the information provided, our Investigator ultimately didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought that Firm A was providing conflicting information to each side; AJ Bell 
believed Firm A was engaged to provide Mr P with advice on his pension transfer and 
investment, whereas Mr P understood Firm A was acting in an execution only capacity, and 
that it was not advising him on the transaction. Based on what hed seen, which included the 
AR agreement Firm A had with TenetConnect, the Investigator thought AJ Bell wouldve 
reasonably considered Firm A was providing Mr P with advice on the pension and 
investment. And the volume of introductions AJ Bell had received from Firm A at the time of 
Mr Ps application wouldnt have given it any cause for concern. So, the Investigator didnt 
think it was unreasonable for AJ Bell to have accepted the introduction from Firm A.
The Investigator believed that AJ Bell had undertaken sufficient due diligence checks on the 
investment, insofar as was possible at the time, given the speculative nature of it. There was 
nothing to suggest the investment wasnt genuine, even though it was relatively high-risk. 
The Investigator also noted Mr P had already undertaken other property and land 
investments in Spain, so likely understood and accepted the risks of making the investment. 
But even if AJ Bell had refused to permit the investment, he thought it was likely Mr P and 
Firm A would have found an alternative SIPP provider to accept it.
The Investigator explained that based on information provided by AJ Bell, it had no reason to 
have concerns about Mr D until 2016, and only in respect of his connection to another 
company. However, this then led to concerns about the investment in late 2016. And AJ Bell 
then wrote to investors in December 2016 to make them aware of the concerns it had about 
the valuation of the investment, which it had reduced to £1 until it received further 
information. The Investigator didnt think AJ Bell couldve reasonably contacted investors 
earlier than this.
Mr P didnt accept the Investigators view. His reasons were as follows:
As per its own terms and conditions, AJ Bell did not permit execution only 
transactions for non-standard investments. AJ Bell said it believed Firm A had given 
Mr P advice but that this was a mistake and it ought to have discovered this. As such, 
the investment should not have been permitted.
The Investigator had no evidence to suggest that Mr P wouldve gone on to make the 
investment regardless, even if AJ Bell hadnt permitted it.
The Investigator had failed to take account of the approach established in Berkeley 
Burke Sipp Administration Ltd v Financial Ombudsman Service Ltd (2018)  AJ Bell 
should have looked carefully at the proposed investment and independently verified 
the viability of it.
With this in mind, AJ Bell ought to have engaged a specialist in Spain to 
independently value the land, both at the time of the investment and after, when it 
was struggling to obtain valuations from the investment company.Whether the investment was fraudulent or not, there were many red flags. The 
Investment Memorandum highlighted these, for example that the investment 
proposition was purely speculative and that there were conflicts of interest between 
the parties involved.
The Investigator didnt change his view on the matter so the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 2023, explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P responded, saying hed been labelled as an experienced 
investor in the decision and asked why that was the case. He added that given the facts of 
the case and the purpose of the Financial Ombudsman Service, he couldnt understand why 
he wasnt being compensated for his loss. AJ Bell didnt provide any comments. So, Im now 
providing my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ive considered Mr Ps response 
but ultimately I see no reason to depart from the findings I made previously. So, Ive largely 
repeated my findings as per my provisional decision below.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook, are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And I consider that Principles 2, 3 and 6 are relevant to my consideration of this 
complaint. They say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirements they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach 
a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to 
the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an Ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
Ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The Ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were 
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all 
possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of the FSMA and the approach an 
Ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman in that complaint, which 
Ive described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a decision on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Ps case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an Ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be 
clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive 
taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Ps case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one has to 
identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the submissions of each of 
the parties that the context has an impact on the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The 
key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties 
entered, which defined their roles and functions in the transaction. 
In my view there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged 
by Mr Adams (summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment) and the 
issues in Mr Ps complaint. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to consider 
the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. 
The facts of Mr Adams and Mr Ps cases are also different. I make that point to highlight that 
there are factual differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mr Ps case. And I need to 
construe the duties AJ Bell owed to Mr P under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of 
Mr Ps case. 
So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Ps case, including AJ Bells role in the transaction.  
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that AJ Bell was under any obligation to advise 
Mr P on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments.So, Im satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Ps case.   
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) issued a number of publications which reminded 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
Ive considered them in their entirety but only made reference to the parts that I consider 
most relevant to my consideration of this complaint. 
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be 
underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure its treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and 
Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
Im also satisfied that AJ Bell, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought the 
2009 Thematic Review Report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples of good 
industry practice. AJ Bell says it did carry out checks on Firm A when it registered to transact 
business with it and that it undertook some due diligence checks on the investment. So, it 
clearly thought it was good practice to do so, at the very least. 
Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Ps 
complaint, means that the examples of good practice they provide werent good practice at 
the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did 
the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the standards 
themselves hadnt changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider AJ Bells 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions given were the 
limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what 
should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether AJ Bell complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr P), to treat them fairly, and to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above to provide an indication of what AJ Bell could have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Mr Ps relationship with AJ Bell and other connected parties
AJ Bell says it is an execution only SIPP administrator, which means that it only acts on the 
instruction of the investor or any third party professional who has authority to make an 
instruction on their behalf. AJ Bell said it does not provide financial advice so it was not 
involved in the advice given to Mr P as a member of the SIPP, or assessing whether the 
investment was suitable for him. It said these were matters for the financial adviser acting on 
Mr Ps behalf, Firm A.
Mr P has explained that he was introduced to Firm A by an unregulated introducer, Mr S, 
who had previously been regulated but was not regulated in any capacity when Mr P and the 
other investors in the group used their pension monies to make the investment.
Mr P has said that Firm A did not give him any advice and that he understood Firm A was 
facilitating the transaction on an execution only basis. Mr P says he signed a letter to this 
effect, but he was unable to provide a copy of it.
I accept that AJ Bell didnt provide any advice here, and so it didnt have an obligation to 
consider the suitability of the investment for Mr P. Nevertheless, I think AJ Bell was required 
(in its role as an execution only SIPP provider) to consider whether it was appropriate to 
accept business from Firm A and to consider whether the investment was an appropriate 
investment to make within its SIPP. And overall, I think AJ Bells duty as a SIPP operator 
was to treat Mr P fairly and to act in his best interests. So, taking account of the regulators 
guidance and what I consider to have been good practice at the time, I think it ought to have 
carried out due diligence to check points such as:
whether Firm A was regulated to provide pensions and investment advice and had a 
clear disciplinary history;
that it understood Firm As business model and what services it provided its clients; 
that it understood how the investment would operate;
that the investment was a genuine asset and was not part of a fraud or a scam or 
pensions liberation;
that the persons with significant control over the investment had a clear disciplinary 
history;
that the investment was safe/secure;
that the investment could be independently valued and that it wasnt impaired.What checks did AJ Bell carry out on Firm A
AJ Bell has said that it only allows FCA (then the FSA) regulated and authorised businesses 
to transact with it. It said that although it now understands an unregulated introducer, Mr S, 
was involved, it had no knowledge of this at the time. Mr Ps SIPP application form and other 
related documents were all submitted to it by Firm A.
It doesnt appear that AJ Bell had a specific introducer agreement with Firm A before 
accepting business from it. However, it has explained that when Firm A completed its 
adviser registration process in September 2009, Firm A accepted AJ Bells Adviser 
Handshake agreement. Ive seen a copy of this and it sets out a summary of the terms upon 
which AJ Bell accepts business from an adviser registered with it. This included a section 
called Your Responsibilities, which said, amongst other things that the adviser would 
comply with the principles and rules as laid down by the FSA at all times and that all matters 
pertaining to advice to clients in accordance with FSA rules were the advisers responsibility. 
Following registration, AJ Bell says that it checked that Firm A was regulated and authorised 
by the FSA. This confirmed Firm A had been authorised since 21 July 2008 as an AR of 
TenetConnect, which had been regulated since 1 December 2001. And Firm A had the 
relevant permissions to advise on pensions and investments. So, AJ Bell was happy to 
accept business from it.
AJ Bell was asked what additional checks it undertook on Firm A, but it said this was the 
extent of it. Nevertheless, it understood Firm As business model would involve the provision 
of a range of advisory services to their clients, which would include advice on opening 
SIPPs, the transfer in of existing pensions and subsequent investments. Firm A would be 
remunerated for the services they provided to their clients by the payment of adviser 
remuneration, as agreed with the client, the payment of which it would facilitate out of the 
clients SIPP.
AJ Bell has told us that it did not accept SIPP applications on an execution only basis, it 
required customers to have received advice on their pension transfers and investments. And 
it says that Firm A misled it about this. But having reviewed the documents Firm A and/or 
Mr P were asked to complete for AJ Bell to open the SIPP, make the pension transfer and 
the subsequent investment, I cannot see any documents that set out this requirement. It may 
have been implied that as an adviser-led SIPP, AJ Bell expected clients to have received 
pensions and investment advice, but that was not explicitly stated anywhere. The Adviser 
Handshake agreement didnt set out this requirement, and there were no sections on any of 
the AJ Bell application forms or investment instructions where Mr P or Firm A could say 
whether or not advice had been given. If this was a requirement, as AJ Bell says it was, 
I wouldve expected that to be clear in the documentation.
In the absence of any documents confirming this, particularly in view of the lack of this 
requirement being detailed in the Adviser Handshake agreement, I wouldve expected AJ 
Bell to ask further questions of Firm A when it registered to transact business with it. I think it 
ought to have asked questions to understand Firm As business model, including the type of 
business it intended to introduce and whether or not it gave clients advice. I think that this 
wouldve been a reasonable step to take in order to meet the requirements of Principles 2 
and 3. And as AJ Bell didnt, as a rule, accept execution only business, I think it was even 
more important for it to establish this at the outset.
It also appears that by 3 March 2010, AJ Bell was aware that Firm A was processing 
pension transfers and facilitating non-standard investments for a group of investors who 
were all making the investment on an execution only basis. A call took place between Firm A and an agent of AJ Bell on 3 March 2010 where this was discussed. AJ Bell provided a copy 
of this call recording with its file on this complaint and Ive listened to it.
In the call, Firm A discussed the documents its clients needed to submit in order to process 
the investment. It doesnt appear that this conversation was specific to any particular 
consumer, instead it related to a number of clients Firm A was arranging the investments for, 
which included Mr P. Firm A mentioned that it had written on some forms that the 
investments to be made through the SIPP were off panel investments on an execution only 
basis  as it had written on Mr Ps application form. Firm A was informed that it needed to 
provide an off panel investment declaration for each client, and then off panel investment 
instruction forms that it could sign on behalf of clients. Firm A also needed to sign an adviser 
declaration for off panel investments, which AJ Bell would email to it. Firm A said it was 
doing this without giving advice and asked whether there was somewhere it could state this 
on the forms. Firm A said it would write a note to this effect and the AJ Bell agent agreed 
Firm A should do what it thought it needed to do to cover itself. AJ Bell said that from the 
call, its agent appears to have accepted this arrangement, but points out that this was not 
the position of AJ Bell.
I think its evident from the call that Firm A wasnt aware of AJ Bells policy to only accept 
advised business. Had Firm A understood it, I think its unlikely it would have been so 
forthcoming with AJ Bells agent that it wasnt providing its clients with any advice.
With this in mind, I think that if AJ Bell had been acting in line with the Principles and good 
industry practice it would have made appropriate enquiries with Firm A about the business it 
intended to introduce, when Firm A registered with it in September 2009. I think Firm A 
wouldve been up front with it and explained that it was not providing the group of investors 
with any pension or investment advice. I say this because of how forthcoming Firm A was 
with the AJ Bell agent on the phone. And the fact Firm A had made it plainly clear to Mr P, 
and other investors like him, that it wasnt providing them with advice and Mr P understood 
that. So, Ive no reason to doubt that Firm A wouldve been honest with AJ Bell about its 
intention not to provide those clients with advice.
This all means that I think that AJ Bell ought to have refused to accept Mr Ps SIPP 
application form in February 2010. By this time, I think AJ Bell ought to have established that 
Firm A was not providing Mr P with any pension or investment advice and intended to simply 
arrange the pension transfer and subsequent investments on an execution only basis. As 
this was contrary to AJ Bells own policy, I think AJ Bell ought reasonably to have refused 
the introduction of Mr Ps business.
However, that doesnt automatically mean that it is fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint and hold AJ Bell liable for Mr Ps loss to his pension. I have to consider what 
would have happened if AJ Bell had refused Mr Ps application to open a SIPP with it for the 
purpose of using his pension monies to make the investment.
And on balance, having considered the evidence in this complaint, and evidence that Ive 
seen on other similar complaints brought by investors in the group, I think Mr P would have 
sought out another SIPP operator which was prepared to accept execution only instructions. 
And Im satisfied that such SIPP operators existed at the time; there was no general 
requirement for customers to take advice before transferring a personal pension and/or 
making an investment. So, I think Mr P wouldve most likely found an alternative SIPP 
operator through which he could make the investment and proceeded regardless.
Mr P says there is no evidence to substantiate this. Of course, I cannot be certain that this 
would have definitely happened. But I am required to make my determination based on what 
I think is most likely to have happened, i.e. on the balance of probabilities. And I think its more likely than not that Mr P would have proceeded to find an alternative SIPP operator to 
accept his investment. Based on the evidence Ive seen, and Mr Ps own testimony, he had 
already decided to make the investment before he was introduced to Firm A  most likely 
because hed been persuaded to do so by the introducer, Mr S, and the other members of 
the investment group. Firm A was clear with Mr P that it would not be advising him on the 
pension transfer or investment and that didnt deter Mr P from proceeding. So, I dont think 
the fact AJ Bell wouldve refused to permit the SIPP application, on the basis that advice 
hadnt been given to him, wouldve deterred him either. I think Mr P had already decided to 
make the investment without him having received advice.
Although I think that Mr P wouldve likely submitted his application to another SIPP operator 
who was happy to accept it on an execution only basis, I still have to consider whether it 
wouldve been reasonable for another SIPP operator, acting in accordance with the 
Principles and good industry practice, to accept the investment into the SIPP. If no other 
SIPP operator should have accepted the investment into the SIPP, then I think it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold AJ Bell liable for Mr Ps loss in any event.
So, Ive considered the due diligence checks that I think a reasonable SIPP operator ought 
to have carried out on the investment before it shouldve accepted it. And whether the 
information it ought to have gathered should have led a reasonable SIPP operator acting in 
line with the Principles to decline to accept the investment into a SIPP.
What due diligence checks should a reasonable SIPP operator have carried out on the 
investment?
As the regulator has made plain, SIPP operators have a responsibility for the quality of the 
SIPP business that they administer. So, SIPP operators should undertake appropriate 
independent enquiries about the nature or quality of an investment proposed before 
determining whether to accept or decline it into its SIPP, which would mean making checks 
that go beyond simply reviewing the investment literature. Mr P argues here that this is 
where AJ Bell failed in its duties. For example, Mr P says that AJ Bell failed to obtain an 
independent valuation of the land by a suitably qualified surveyor in Spain. And that this was 
a breach of AJ Bells duty to interrogate the viability of the investment.
But as Ive said above, Im not considering what AJ Bell did or didnt do here. Instead, Im 
considering what a reasonable SIPP operator should have done before accepting the 
investment into a SIPP. And I think that wouldve included being satisfied in respect of the 
following points: 
that the investment was a genuine asset and was not part of a fraud or a scam or 
pensions liberation;
that the persons with significant control over the investment had a clear disciplinary 
history;
that the investment was safe/secure;
that the investment could be independently valued and that it wasnt impaired.
Having considered the evidence provided and Mr P and AJ Bells comments, Im satisfied 
that it wouldve been appropriate for a reasonable SIPP operator acting in line with the 
Principles to accept Mr Ps investment into a SIPP.
I think that as an initial starting point, a reasonable SIPP operator ought to have checked 
whether the nature of the investment was such that it was permitted to be held in the SIPP 
under HMRC rules. And I think this couldve been ascertained by requesting and reviewing 
the Investment Memorandum (IM). The IM provided significant detail about how the investment was valued, the arrangements for buying and selling shares, the custody 
arrangements and the restrictions on the type of client who could invest in the scheme.
The IM confirmed the structure of the investment was a genuinely diverse commercial 
vehicle (GDCV). So, I think a reasonable SIPP operator wouldve fairly considered the 
investment to be a GDCV, which could be permitted to be held in a SIPP. 
I think there were limited investigations a SIPP operator could carry into the investment to 
understand the nature and operation of it given the stage the investment was at. But from 
reviewing the IM, a SIPP operator wouldve understood the investment offering was shares 
and bonds in a GDCV, the purpose of which was to raise funds in order to invest in shares in 
a Spanish Holding Company, which would then use the funds to acquire land to be 
developed in Spain. The executive summary of the IM stated:
Current market conditions provide an opportunity to purchase land in this particular region 
of Spain and to acquire planning permission to develop/build properties at a significant 
discount to the land values prevailing in November 2008. A report was prepared by [Firm B - 
a chartered surveyor registered in Gibraltar] in November 2008, where the report valued 
each plot at approximately €261,000. Due to a fall in the market for such development 
properties as a result of lower demand due to the economic recession, the opportunity exists 
today to acquire these plots for approximately €110,000. Negotiations have taken place 
regarding the purchase of the plots and therefore the proposed pricing is not purely 
speculative, although remains subject to contract and there is no binding contract for the 
acquisition of the Land at this price or at any price.
The intention is initially for the Spanish Holding Company to acquire 4 land plots with an 
estimated purchase price of €440,000 (excluding the costs of acquisition) with the option to 
acquire additional plots if further monies are raised at a later date.
The Spanish Holding Company will hold the land for the foreseeable future with the intention 
to either:
a) sell on the land at a later date for profit;
b) to develop out the project when market conditions improve and sell on the completed 
properties, or retain the properties and rent the properties out to third parties. If this 
route is followed, it is anticipated that no building will take place within the first four 
years of the holding
[The investment company] aims to raise a minimum of £600,000 with the intention of 
investing that cash in the Spanish Holding Company which in turn will acquire 4 plots of land 
described above. Due to current market conditions, [Firm W] believe the land can be 
acquired for approximately 50% less than valuations as of November 2008. Planning 
permission will be sought to develop out the 4 plots with the intention of building 3 to 4, four 
bedroom luxury villas. The development will benefit from an extremely high quality finish, 
with luxury features throughout It is believed that, dependent on market conditions, but 
based on valuations for properties previously constructed of this nature and in a similar 
location, sales values could exceed €800,000 each
So, I think it was clear from the IM that the investment, at the stage at which Mr P was 
proposing to invest, was highly speculative. It was essentially at the point where the 
investment was seeking seed money. So, the company had no assets into which a SIPP 
operator could reasonably be expected to investigate further. And as the Spanish Holding 
company did not yet exist or own the land, it wasnt unreasonable that no property developer 
or architect was attached to the project, particularly as developing the land was only one of the routes set out in the IM. It was possible the land, once acquired, would simply be sold on 
for profit. 
Although the IM referred to a valuation of the land which had been carried out by Firm B in 
November 2008, this was not part of the IM. So I think requesting sight of this valuation 
wouldve been good practice, but ultimately by the time Mr P sought to invest, this valuation 
was over a year old. And in any event, the aim of the investment scheme was to purchase 
the land at a price below the valuation. And that there was no guarantee the price quoted in 
the IM would be the price at which the land would be acquired. So, I dont think that the 
absence of the earlier valuation or an additional current independent valuation wouldve 
been a barrier to a SIPP operator accepting the investment into the SIPP. Ultimately, the 
price of the land to be purchased was to be negotiated once the investment company had 
raised the necessary starting capital. And although there was no current valuation, Im 
satisfied that the investment could be independently valued in future because it was tied to 
the value of land for development.
I also note that the IM contained numerous warnings about the risks involved in investing in 
the scheme. For example, in the general section at the beginning of the IM, it stated that an 
investment in the company was speculative and involved a high degree of risk. And that 
investing in the company might expose the investor to a significant risk of losing all of the 
amount invested. A further section entitled Risks/Taxation set out the numerous risks 
attached to the scheme in detail. Mr P seems to suggest that because the investment was 
so high-risk, it should not have been permitted. But the fact that the scheme was speculative 
and carried a high degree of risk does not mean that AJ Bell or any other SIPP operator 
acting in line with the Principles and guidance should not have permitted the investment to 
be held in the SIPP, particularly as the IM was very up front about the risks involved. And the 
structure of the investment was not an unusual one in view of its aim. The risks, too, were 
generally akin to those that should reasonably be expected with an investment of this nature.
Mr P appointed Firm A to act on his behalf in setting up the SIPP and making the 
investment. And when Firm A applied to make the investment through Mr Ps SIPP, AJ Bell 
required it to complete a Collective Investment Schemes  Declaration for non-UK regulated 
and/or illiquid investments form. This form set out the various risks involved with an 
investment of this nature and included an adviser declaration which said:
I confirm that I have made the client aware of the risk factors and terms and conditions for 
the investment named above, set out in the key features and/or prospectus and other 
documentation provided, and the issues set out above.
I confirm that the client has been made aware of the above issues and notwithstanding, still 
wishes to proceed with the investment.
I confirm neither AJ Bell Management Limited nor Sippdeal Trustees Limited has provided 
any advice to the client on the suitability of this investment for their pension arrangement. I 
understand that neither AJ Bell Management Limited nor Sippdeal Trustees Limited accept 
any liability for any issues that may arise in respect of the investment.
I think its likely that another SIPP operator in the position of AJ Bell wouldve had a similar 
requirement where non-standard investments were being made through the SIPP, 
particularly where accepting business on an execution only basis.
Im also aware that Mr P signed the investment application form declaration submitted in 
September 2010, which confirmed he had read and understood the terms and conditions 
relating to the investment.So, even though the investment scheme was in its very early phases and clearly carried a 
high degree of risk, I think it wouldve been fair for a reasonable SIPP operator to believe 
that Mr P had seen the IM and understood and accepted the risks involved. That is 
regardless of whether it believed Mr P had been advised to invest in the scheme or not. 
I dont think the investment contained any other concerning features that shouldve led a 
reasonable SIPP operator to question it further. While it was an illiquid investment, and was 
highly speculative, I dont think the specific investment proposed any additional risks such 
that a reasonable SIPP operator ought to have refused to permit it to be held in the SIPP. 
And, overall, I think that reasonable checks into the investment wouldve established the 
investment was genuine and could be independently valued. 
Mr P has raised concerns about Mr D, who Mr P believed to be the Director of the 
investment company, and his conflict of interest. Mr P also believes that the investment 
scheme was fraudulent from the start.
I think that carrying out checks into the persons of significant control within the investment 
scheme before accepting the investment into a SIPP wouldve been good practice at the 
time. So, Ive thought about what such checks wouldve revealed.
The IM explained that a Ms A was Director of the investment company and Mr D was in fact 
the Secretary of it. The IM didnt say who the Director of the project manager, Firm W, was, 
but according to Companies House it was the same arrangement as with the investment 
company; Ms A was Director and Mr D was Secretary. The IM also set out that the Directors 
of the Spanish Holding Company were to be Ms A and Mr D.
Mr P says that this was an inherent conflict of interest. The IM acknowledged that certain 
inherent conflict of interest arose from the relationship between the investment company and 
the project manager. But the IM said:
No transaction is permitted to take place in relation to the sale or other disposal of any of 
the Plots or the developed land between the Company, the Spanish Company or the Project 
Manager or any member of the Project Managers Group or with any director or shareholder 
of the Project Manager unless that transaction is approved by a Special Resolution of the 
shareholders so as to ensure that such transaction proceeds only on arms length terms and 
a fair valuation save to the extent that investors may by such resolution otherwise approve.
So, I think protections were in place to manage the conflict of interest between those parties. 
And I dont think there were any more concerning conflicts of interest, such as a connection 
between Firm A or the introducer, Mr S, and the investment company or the project 
manager.
I think a reasonable SIPP operator should have been expected to carry out checks into Ms A 
and Mr D. But I dont think any checks on those individuals wouldve given them any cause 
for concern. Ms A and Mr D were involved with several companies together but none of 
those companies had any adverse notices attached to them which should otherwise have 
given a reasonable SIPP operator cause for concern. So, I dont think carrying out checks 
into the persons of significant control wouldve led a reasonable SIPP operator refusing to 
permit the investment in the SIPP.
Im also not persuaded that there were any signs or indications that the investment scheme 
was fraudulent. The land existed and I understand that members of the investment group 
(though Im not sure whether this included Mr P), had been out to visit the land before 
making the investment.It appears that Mr Ps concerns that the investment scheme is/was fraudulent, stems from 
the failure of it to realise any profit  Mr P says the funds invested have been appropriated 
by the project manager. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the scheme was 
fraudulent from the outset, or that AJ Bell or any other reasonable SIPP operator ought to 
have considered that to be the case.
I appreciate Mr P has legitimate concerns about what has happened to the invested funds, 
but based on the company accounts for the year ending September 2012, it appears that the 
investment company did use the invested funds to acquire shares in the Spanish Holding 
Company. And according to Mr P, I understand the land was acquired as planned. So, 
I dont think that this demonstrates the investment scheme was fraudulent from the outset, 
as the investment initially proceeded as explained in the IM.
Lastly, I note that the IM set out that the investment could only be promoted to certain 
individuals. The IM said that the shares and bonds were not units in an unregulated 
collective investment schemes for the purposes of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA). It said their lawful promotion is governed by the FSMA (Financial Promotion) 
Order 2005 (FPO). It further stated that the categories of persons to whom promotion of 
shares and bonds could be made included investment professionals; certified high net worth 
individuals, certain high net worth companies, trusts and partnerships, certified sophisticated 
investors and self-certified sophisticated investors.
I dont think that a reasonable SIPP operator wouldve needed to satisfy itself that Mr P fell 
within one of these categories, as it appears the unregulated introducer promoted the 
investment to Mr P. But Im mindful that the regulator set out, in the guidance Ive referred to 
above, that SIPP operators were expected to be able to identify possible instances of 
financial crime and consumer detriment under the Principles. The application form that Mr P 
completed for AJ Bell stated that he was a self-employed shop owner. And its reasonable to 
assume that information wouldve been disclosed in an application form for any other SIPP. 
As such, I think that couldve alerted another SIPP operator to the possibility that Mr P may 
not have been eligible for promotion of the investment. Its evident that Mr P went on to 
invest all of the money he transferred to the SIPP in this particular investment, which wasnt 
a standard investment and as such carried a higher degree of risk. So, I think a reasonable 
SIPP operator considering whether to accept Mr Ps investment instructions ought to have 
been alive to the potential for consumer detriment here.
As such, I think it wouldve been reasonable for the SIPP operator to have asked Firm A to 
provide confirmation that Mr P was eligible to invest in the scheme. And indeed, Ive seen 
instances where SIPP operators have asked customers in a similar position to sign, for 
example, high net-worth or sophisticated investor declarations, to confirm their eligibility 
despite the SIPP operator not having promoted the investment. So, I think it is fair to say this 
would constitute good practice and would be acting in customers best interests.
While I think a reasonable SIPP operator ought to have taken this extra step before 
accepting Mr Ps investment, ultimately Im not persuaded it would have made a difference 
to the investment proceeding.
I say this because I think Mr P would most likely have met the criteria for at least one of the 
categories of investor, that being a self-certified sophisticated investor. Mr P questions why 
he has been described as an experienced investor. But in bringing the complaint, Mr P told 
us that hed invested in overseas property and land developments for a number of years 
before being introduced to this investment. So, I dont think its unreasonable to say Mr P 
was already experienced in the type of investment he was going on to make here. And 
I think, if asked by AJ Bell or any other reasonable SIPP operator, Mr P wouldve most likely 
signed the self-certified sophisticated investor statement. And I think this wouldve satisfied a reasonable SIPP operator acting in line with the Principles that it was accepting an 
investment that had been promoted to Mr P because he was eligible to invest in it.
Summary
Overall, although Mr P was seeking to invest in a speculative land development opportunity, 
which the IM highlighted was very high risk, Im not persuaded that AJ Bell, or any other 
reasonable SIPP operator, shouldve declined to accept the investment into Mr Ps SIPP. 
The investment was not overly complex and Mr P had been made aware of the risks 
involved. So even though I dont think AJ Bell ought to have accepted the introduction from 
Firm A  for the reasons given above  I think that it is fair to say that Mr P wouldve most 
likely found an alternative SIPP operator to accept the execution only pension transfer and 
investment instruction. And I think that it is fair to say that any SIPP operator acting in line 
with the Principles and regulatory guidance would have permitted the investment to be held 
in the SIPP. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to hold AJ Bell responsible for Mr Ps 
loss to his pension as a result of him making the investment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman