DRN-2281435
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down a claim under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H experienced delays when flying from London to the Isle of Man. He made a claim with 
Aviva but this was turned down. Aviva said the Travel delay after check in part of his policy 
didnt cover trips taken solely in the UK, and the policy defined the Isle of Man as part of the 
UK.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. Having considered all of the evidence 
he thought Aviva should pay the claim. Aviva disagreed so the complaint came to me for a 
decision.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt agree with our investigator. So I issued a provisional 
decision on 22 September 2020. In this I said:
To start I think its important to say that its not my role to agree or disagree about whether
the Isle of Man is considered to be part of the UK. Its my role to see whether I think Aviva
treated Mr H fairly when applying the policy terms and assessing his claim; and, having
looked at what happened I think they did.
When insurers set policy terms they decide what eventualities they want to cover, and those
that they dont. As part of this they define different words in the policy. In Mr Hs policy Aviva
defines the UK as England, Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland and the Isle of Man. The
policy also says that Travel delay after check in does not apply for trips taken solely in the
UK. So Im persuaded Aviva have acted fairly when applying the policy terms and turning
down Mr Hs claim.
Our investigator thought that the definition of the UK to include the Isle of Man was a
significant or unusual term. I know Mr H agrees with this as he provided both Aviva and this
service with information confirming that the Isle of Man is not part of the UK. However in
travel insurance policies this definition of the UK isnt unusual. That doesnt mean that Mr H
is wrong with the information he has provided, and as an aside I dont think he is, but its the
policy wording thats important here. Aviva have decided upon the definition in the policy,
and that is what was used to assess Mr Hs claim.
Defining the term UK in the policy isnt a limitation or restriction on cover. Its a definition of a
destination. If other terms in the policy are restrictions or limitations on cover then Id expect
them to sufficiently brought to a consumers attention. But with the definition of destination its
sufficient that the policy makes that definition clear. Here the definition is in Section 2 of the
policy alongside other defined words.
I agree when Aviva says that its the responsibility of a consumer to check that a policy
meets their travel needs and provides the cover they require. This is especially so with the
type of policy such as the one Mr H has. In these types of policies theres generally no
requirement for a consumer to tell the insurer where they are travelling. So its only the
consumer who knows their travel destination. Therefore its up to the consumer to decide
whether a policy provides cover for their needs.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Aviva treated Mr H fairly and reasonably when
applying the policy terms and turning down his claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further submissions they had before I issued my 
final decision.
Mr H didnt agree with my provisional decision. He thought it was ridiculous the small print in 
the policy could over-ride the independent status of the Isle of Man to the advantage of the 
insurer.
Aviva agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons.
Ive read what Mr H has said about the provisional decision and the Isle of Man. As I said in 
my provisional decision, its not for me to agree or disagree about the status of the Isle of 
Man. Its my role to see whether I think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably when applying the 
policy terms. This is an important difference.
Aviva are allowed to set their own definitions in the policy. Here theyve included the Isle of 
Man in the definition of the UK - this is in the policy booklet under Definitions on page 10. 
Having considered all of the information provided by both parties Im satisfied Aviva acted 
fairly and reasonably when applying the policy terms and turning down the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman