DRN-1486595
The complaint
Miss H complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited (Erudio) were wrong to apply a 
County Court Judgement to her credit file in relation to her student loan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion for the following reasons. Ive read 
and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If 
I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think 
about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
The student loan deferment ended in February 2016. Ive been provided with copies 
of the communication sent by Erudio to Miss H on 24 May 2016. This confirmed that 
unless she got in touch before the 21 June 2016 the loan would be terminated, and 
her deferment rights would cease. Ive not seen evidence that Miss H did contact 
Erudio in that period. So, I think it was reasonable to terminate the contract as the 
deferment period had lapsed; Miss H hadnt been in touch to make a new application 
and the account was in significant arrears. 
Miss H says she didnt receive any correspondence, but I can see they wrote to her 
at the same address they had been given in Miss Hs 2013 and 2015 deferral 
applications. That address is also listed on her credit file and its clear that bank 
accounts have been registered in Miss Hs name to that address. So, I think its likely 
Erudio wrote to her at the last address they were informed of and I think its 
reasonable to suggest Miss H was responsible for telling Erudio of her new address 
as she would reasonably have been aware the deferment period had ended. I say 
that because its clear Miss H had made previous deferment applications and would 
therefore have known how long the deferment was applied for.
The business wrote to Miss H in December 2017 and in that communication they 
again explained that the account had been terminated and that the full balance was 
due. I think Miss H was allowed a reasonable time to avoid the CCJ being applied for 
as proceedings werent taken until 2019.
I can see that Erudio made mistakes when they wrote to Miss H. For instance, they 
provided details of an erroneous account and they sent a letter to Miss H that was 
only meant as an internal communication. But Ive seen that Erudio compensated 
Miss H for the mistakes they made, and I think, in the circumstances, that £100 was 
enough.
So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Erudio to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman