DRN-3728978
The complaint
Mr G complains Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined his buildings insurance claim.
All references to Ageas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered three questions relating to the damage reported by Mr G:
Has it been proven, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the prevailing storm conditions the main or dominant case of the damage?
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and Im upholding 
Mr Gs complaint for these reasons:
The first quote from Mr Gs contractor, dated a day before the second storm incident, 
reports missing ridge tiles and others severely loosened, caused by storms.
The policy defines a storm as winds speeds exceeding 55 mph.
Weather records show on the day in question peak gusts of up to 48mph were 
reported at the nearest weather station  14 miles from Mr Gs property. So, Ageas 
feel the answer to question one is no.  
While this doesnt meet the definition set out in the policy, our service considers this 
to be strong enough to cause slight structural damage. I also note both incidents took 
place during Storm Eunice and Mr Gs property is situated less than a mile from the 
coast. So, considering this, I think its reasonable to conclude storm conditions were 
most likely present.
The second incident occurred around two days later. Weather reports show wind 
speeds of up to 76 mph, far exceeding the policy definition.
Im persuaded that the force of the winds reported were strong enough to cause 
damage to ridge tiles. Mr Gs contractor reported these to have been loosened or in 
places ripped off. I find this consistent with storm damage.
The information we do have available, from Mr Gs contractor, shows there was 
some damage to ridge tiles following the first incident.
Further damage has occurred following storm conditions with winds up to 78 mph. I 
havent seen anything to persuade me damage was present before the storms. So, 
considering the information available, I think the storm was the predominant cause of 
the damage. 
In any event, when I consider the damage caused by the second incident, I also think 
it more likely than not, the damage reported wouldve occurred had the first not taken 
place, given the wind speeds recorded. So, I think its fair and reasonable the ridge 
tiles and any related costs are covered under the claim.
I understand Mr G has submitted an invoice for work carried out to Ageas. Ageas has 
asked for further clarification regarding this, which isnt unreasonable for them do to 
validate a claim. But should Mr G be unhappy with any further proposed settlement, 
he is entitled to raise a further complaint with Ageas and may consider bringing a 
new complaint to our service should he be unhappy with its response.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Mr G has had repairs to the damage completed. So, I think it reasonable Ageas should cover 
the costs to Mr G to repair the ridge tiles. Ageas should reimburse Mr G on production of 
sufficient evidence such as VAT receipts.
Simple interest of 8% should be calculated from the date Mr G paid for the repairs to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
To put things right, I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman