DRN-3459792
The complaint
Mr Z says Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity International (FI)) 
failed to notify him of a corporate action that affected his holding, within his FI Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP), in the Vanguard Global Minimum Volatility UCITS Exchange 
Traded Fund (the fund). He says this deprived him the time/opportunity to consider his 
position before the corporate action deadline. 
FI says details of the corporate action were issued to it late and it passed those details to   
Mr Z shortly thereafter; that this went beyond its obligations to Mr Z; that it was a mandatory 
corporate action and the terms agreed by Mr Z for the SIPP say notice of such action could 
be given after the event; that, in the present case, he was given the notice three working 
days after it received the details from Vanguard and over a fortnight before the trading 
deadline associated with the action; and that, incidentally, the funds market price reached its 
highest point (since the announcement) 12 days after notice was given to Mr Z so he cannot 
claim to have missed the optimum time to trade his holding if he wished to.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. He broadly agreed with the points made by FI and noted as follows:
Vanguard released a Stock Exchange announcement about the corporate action on 
27 November 2020, it was closing four of its Exchange Traded Funds and the fund 
was one of them; the effective closure date was 25 February 2021 and, if  Mr Z had 
not acted upon his holding by this date, the expectation was that he would receive 
liquidated proceeds for his holding by 11 March 2021; FI did not receive the formal 
notice and corporate action details from Vanguard so it chased for this information 
and eventually received it on 29 January 2021; then it passed the notice to Mr Z on 3 
February 2021.
FI took the business decision not to issue notice to its clients without relevant details 
in order to avoid causing confusion (by referring to a corporate action without details 
for it); as it has said, the terms for the SIPP meant it was not required to give notice 
of such a mandatory corporate action prior to its deadline; it was allowed to do that 
thereafter, but instead it did so on 3 February, three wording days after receiving the 
details from Vanguard and ahead of the 25 February deadline; and FI had no 
advisory or management responsibility in the SIPP.
Overall, FI did nothing wrong in the matter.
Mr Z disagreed with this outcome and responded with evidence he had obtained from 
Vanguard in which Vanguard said  
On the 27th November I can confirm that the website was updated and we were directing 
investors to the fund announcements page. The fund announcement page was updated on 
the 27th November: 
You can also see the announcement itself here which confirms all of the dates: 
I can also confirm that we sent this Shareholder Notice in a direct email to Fidelity on the 2nd 
December 2020 after an enquiry from them that day asking for the announcement as they 
had not seen a copy yet. This was re sent to them on the 29th January at their request for 
another copy.
He mainly says this disproves FIs account of events and its claim about details being 
unavailable; that FI failed to treat its clients fairly, as regulation requires it to, by depriving 
them (including him) of information about a corporate action that others in the market already 
had; that it would be unfair for FI to successfully hide behind the SIPPs terms in this respect; 
that, in contrast, there are terms for comparator firms which oblige them to give clients notice 
of corporate actions; and that FIs conduct suggests insider dealing. 
The investigator confirmed that FIs position remains the same despite Mr Zs comments, 
and that the same applies to his view on the complaint; that FI was not obliged to search 
online for the corporate action details; that it asked Vanguard for those details and it has 
evidence it received them on 29 January 2021; and that ultimately FI committed no 
contractual or regulatory wrongdoing in the matter. Mr Z questioned why FIs account of 
events was being preferred to Vanguards. The complaint was then referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I begin with Mr Zs concluding query. I agree that what Vanguard has said, directly, should 
be given the weight it deserves. This does not mean it is as relevant to the issue in his case 
as he might consider it to be. As I explain below, I am not persuaded that it holds such 
relevance. Nevertheless, it stands as a first-hand account of how Vanguard conducted the 
corporate action notification at its end. 
Vanguard essentially says that further to the stock market announcement on 27 November 
its website was updated with the same notification on the same date; that it responded to 
FIs enquiry of 2 December by sending it the Shareholder notice on the same date; and that 
this was re-sent to FI on 29 January upon its request for another copy.
In its complaint response to Mr Z FI said no further details (such as firm timeframes and 
specific details) were available on the website after the announcement, that it  began 
chasing Vanguard in January for further detail and terms of the closures and that on 29 
January it received full details of the winddown.
On balance, I am not convinced there is a need to prefer one account over the other. It 
appears to be FIs position that it could not find the details it wanted on the website on 27 
November, if Vanguard says such details were in the update it applied to the website on this 
date it would appear that they were not enough for FI. In other words, on the one hand FI 
says it checked the website but did not find the details it wanted, but on the other hand 
Vanguard says the website was updated with the corporate action at the time, so it is either 
the case that the update lacked details or that the details it had were not enough for FI, but 
this does not depict a conflict between both firms accounts. 
Vanguard then says FI asked for, and received, the action notice on 2 December but had to 
request another copy on 29 January. FI confirms its request of 29 January, so there is 
common ground on this and the implication is that it needed to make this request. Reference to an enquiry from FI to Vanguard on 2 December seems to support FIs position more than 
otherwise. It suggests that FI promptly engaged  after the notification  in seeking further 
details for its clients. Again, this does not quite show a conflict between the firms accounts. 
Overall and on balance, I consider that both firms accounts of events appear to be parts, 
and/or perspectives, of the same explanation.
The case turns on what FI was obliged to do in response to the November notice and 
whether (or not) it did that. The terms of a contracted service exist for a purpose. Once 
agreed, they help to establish the basis upon which the service is delivered  and the basis 
on which it is agreed to be delivered. Mr Z has suggested that a firm should also be 
expected to apply common sense to its actions where required, irrespective of terms  such 
as informing clients about a corporate action, that they need to know about, before its 
deadline. The terms in his case clearly confirm that notice of a mandatory corporate action 
like the closure of the fund could be given to him after the event  so FI was not obliged to 
give him prior notice. 
With regards to common sense, it appears that FI exercised its discretion to apply something 
of this nature in the actions that it took. It promptly sought details about the action with a 
view to sharing notice of it, and of its details, with its clients before the event (that is, before 
the effective fund closure date). It acted beyond the SIPPs terms and appears to have done 
precisely what Mr Z says it should have done. 
Mr Zs criticism is that it did not act quickly enough (in terms of issuing the notice to him), but 
I do not find merit in this because FI had no obligation to give prior notice and Mr Z had no 
expectation  or, ought not to have had any expectation  of that because prior notice for 
mandatory corporate actions was not part of the contracted service for his SIPP. He has 
cited terms from a comparator firm which say news about corporate actions will be shared 
with clients. It is noteworthy that FIs terms treat notification of ordinary corporate actions 
differently, depending on the circumstances, and prior notice to clients appears to be 
included in that treatment. The point is that for mandatory corporate actions no prior notice 
was required. Furthermore, as Mr Z concedes, another firms terms are not binding on FI so 
the comparison he cites must be viewed in this context.
I have not seen evidence that FI treated Mr Z unfairly and, for the above reasons, I consider 
that it did the opposite. Where he could have been left without notice, from FI, of the funds 
closure until after it happened, he was notified of it 22 days before it happened  and I note 
FIs argument that, if he wanted to sell his holding before the closure, on 15 February 2021 
(12 days after he received the notice) the associated market price was at its highest since 
the corporate action announcement, so he received the notice in ample time (and with 
opportunity) to sell at that price. 
Mr Z has suggested, based on what appears to be a hypothesis, potential insider dealing in 
the matter. I consider this beyond the scope of this decision and my remit, especially as I 
have found no wrongdoing by FI in the case.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Roy KukuOmbudsman