DRN-1708198
 
The complaint
Mrs N says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her two regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies in 1996 when she took out two credit cards. 
What happened
This complaint is about two credit card PPI policies taken out in August 1996. The policies 
were added to Mrs Ns credit card accounts when she applied for the cards in branch. The 
policies cost no more than 69p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a 
successful claim, both would repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for 
up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ns complaint.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold because:
 
I think Barclays made Mrs N aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it  although I can understand why she can no longer remember this given the 
meeting in branch took place nearly 25 years ago. I say this because Ive seen a 
copy of the application form, and can see that she selected PPI before signing the 
application form in 1996. And as the PPI wouldve appeared on her monthly credit 
card statements, then had it been added to her accounts without either her 
knowledge or her consent, I wouldve expected her to query or challenge this in the 
first few months after the accounts were opened in August 1996.
 
Barclays recommended the policies Mrs N, but it doesnt look as if the PPI was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time of the 
sale. Her representative confirmed that she had very limited sick pay from her 
employer in the event that she was off work through illness or injury; she had no 
other insurance policies that would provide protection and had no savings either. In 
addition, she doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the serious limitations 
and exclusions of the policies  she told us she was employed and in good health. 
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs N chose to take out the policies and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations, 
such as those relating to some who is self-employed or has a pre-existing medical 
condition. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I 
think it unlikely Mrs N would have made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. On balance, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
 
The policy was also competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it 
unlikely Mrs N would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance, I think she would still have taken out the policies.
 
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ns comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman