DRN-2364836
The complaint
Mrs M complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
gave her unsuitable investment advice because she was advised to invest too much of her 
money and the investment was too risky.
What happened
In 2006 Mrs M was advised to invest £7,000 in HSBCs Capital Protected ISA and a further 
£23,000 in the HSBC Income Fund of Funds. The ISA had a six-year term and she kept it 
until maturity when she got back the capital she had invested. The investment in the Income 
Fund of Funds was also kept for six years.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint saying I thought it should be upheld. In 
short, I made the following findings:
Mrs Ms circumstances were a little unusual in that she had a low income and was 
dependent on one of her daughters for payment of household bills, but I think she 
was in position to invest just over half of her available capital.
Her attitude to risk was identified as lower risk.
The Capital Protected ISA was linked to the FTSE 100.
The Income Fund of Funds was split roughly equally between bonds and equities 
with around 49% of the investment in equities.
Overall £18,000 of the total amount invested of £30,000 (60%) was based on the 
performance of equities and this was too much for a low risk investor.
HSBC should pay redress based on comparison between the investments and our 
usual benchmark for a low risk investor.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. The CMC didnt provide a response, but 
HSBC said it didnt agree with my provisional decision. It agreed that the investment in the 
Income Fund of Funds wasnt suitable but thought the ISA investment was.
It said that when considering Mrs Ms overall circumstances, the £28,000 she didnt invest 
should be considered. It said this would mean she invested around 31% of her available 
capital in stock market related investments which wouldnt be unsuitable for a cautious/lower 
risk investor.
HSBC also said that the ISA was capital protected which it said offset the risk of the 
stockmarket underperforming and that Mrs M said she wanted capital protection for part of 
her investment.
HSBC said the product also wasnt complicated, as it was linked to only one index and it 
thought Mrs M wouldve understood how it worked. It also pointed out that the ISA had the 
benefit of an early release point that was triggered if the FTSE 100 was 30% higher on the 
third anniversary which Mrs M indicated she wanted to take advantage of if it arose.
HSBC also pointed to another decision of our service which had found that a capital 
protected ISA wasnt an unsuitably risky investment.
I thought some of the points raised by HSBC about the suitability of the ISA had merit and I 
was minded to change my finding that the investment into the ISA was unsuitable. I asked 
the investigator to speak to the CMC about this so that it had the opportunity of providing its 
thoughts on this proposed change. The CMC confirmed it was agreeable to redress being 
limited to the Income Fund of Funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IHSBC has agreed that the advice to invest in the Income Fund of Funds was unsuitable and 
the CMC has indicated that it doesnt disagree that redress should be limited to investment 
in that fund and not the ISA, so it is not continuing to argue that the ISA was unsuitable. 
Having considered what the parties have said and having reviewed the complaint again I 
think it is reasonable to change my finding that the ISA was unsuitable for Mrs M. I think it is 
appropriate to make some limited findings why I now think it is suitable. 
In my provisional decision I looked at the overall investment Mrs M was advised to make. In 
doing so I found that both the investment in the ISA and the investment in the Income Fund 
of Funds were unsuitable because too much of the overall amount invested was dependent 
on the performance of the stockmarket.
But if Mrs M hadnt been advised to invest in the Income Fund of Funds and had instead 
been advised to invest in a low risk investment that wasnt so heavily invested in equities 
then this wouldnt have been the case. So, I think Mrs M was in a position to invest some of 
her money in the ISA as long as she didnt also invest in the Income Fund of Funds. 
HSBC has also pointed to Mrs M wanting capital protection, which the ISA provided, and I 
dont think I attached enough weight to this. I also note the point made by HSBC that it 
wasnt a complicated investment as it was linked to only one stockmarket index - unlike 
some index tracker funds which are linked to multiple indexes.
I think it is worth commenting on a couple of other points raised by HSBC. Firstly, HSBC is 
aware that each complaint is considered on its own merits, so the fact that in another 
complaint it was found that the Capital Protected ISA was a suitable recommendation isnt a 
basis for arguing that it is suitable in this complaint. I have taken no account of the other 
decision it has referred to in deciding that the ISA was a suitable recommendation in this 
complaint. 
Secondly, I dont agree with HSBC that the money Mrs M didnt invest is relevant when 
considering whether the investments were too risky. So, this doesnt have any bearing on my 
now finding that the ISA was a suitable recommendation either.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
M as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I think Mrs M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should HSBC do? 
To compensate Mrs M fairly, HSBC must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. HSBC should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
HSBC 
Income 
Fund of 
Funds  
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
For the investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, HSBC should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
HSBC totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mrs M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs M into that position. It does not mean that Mrs 
M would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mrs M could have obtained from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude. 
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons I have explained. HSBC UK Bank PLC must pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman