DRN-1201008
 
complaint
Ms J complains that Darlington Building Society (Darlington) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) when they sold her a regular premium PPI in 2000. 
background
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint on the basis that the information 
provided by Darlington was insufficient to allow Ms J to make an informed choice about the 
PPI. And the adjudicator thought that would have mattered to Ms J as she would not have 
been able to make a claim on the policy for an existing medical condition. Our adjudicator 
felt it was unlikely that Ms J wouldve taken out the policy if the exclusion for a pre-existing 
medical condition had been drawn to her attention.
Darlington disagrees. It has raised a number of points in response to the adjudicators 
assessment and asked for a review. So this complaint comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when I cannot see all the documents from the time 
of the sale that would shed clear light on this matter. The sale happened over 19 years ago, 
so its maybe not surprising that such evidence isnt available. Where there isnt evidence for 
me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to 
say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision 
based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Darlington says it sold the policy on a non-advised basis. Ms J thought she had been 
advised to take the PPI out. But the business told us its records suggest the PPI was bought 
following a mailshot. So, without any direct contact between Ms J and a representative of 
Darlington, it seems most likely that Darlington didnt recommend that Ms J take the PPI. So, 
it didnt have to check if it was right for her. Instead, Darlington had to provide information 
that was clear and not misleading, so that Ms J could decide about the policy for herself. 
Having had regard for all the submissions made to me in this case, I do not think that 
Darlington ensured Ms J was in a position to make a properly informed choice. I explain why 
below. 
Maybe it is not surprising that both Darlington and Ms J have not been able to provide the 
mailing letter Darlington would have sent Ms J in 2000, these events occurred a long time 
ago. Darlington has been able to provide me with a copy of the policy summary leaflet and application form that would have accompanied the mailing letter. However, without seeing 
the marketing letter, I cant know how the policy summary was introduced or how the 
importance of reading it was put to Ms J. 
The policy summary explained the circumstances in which claims that resulted from an 
existing health condition could be made and/or excluded such claims altogether. But without 
knowing how the policy summary was positioned with Ms J in the mailing letter, its not clear 
whether she would have read it at all, or if she did, how closely she was encouraged to do 
so. Had Ms J read the policy summary, she may have found the terms that applied to 
anyone with a pre-existing medical condition. But the term that applies is mid way down 
page three of an eight page booklet and the type is quite small and densely packed. 
The terms affecting people with pre-existing conditions are significant ones and needed to 
be sufficiently highlighted to Ms J before she made her decision to buy the policy. In this 
case, having considered all the submissions made to me in this case, on balance I think 
that   I cannot safely find that Darlington sufficiently highlighted this important term to Ms J at 
that time. 
I have been shown no evidence that protection against the risk of accident and sickness was 
not important to Ms J, indeed having spent three months off work through ill health, and 
working for a government department for many years, it may have been more important to 
her than protection against the risk of unemployment. Looked at overall, even though Ms J 
wouldve been able to claim other benefits the policy offered, I think this policy limitation 
wouldve been enough to put Ms J off taking out this PPI. I dont think Ms J would have 
bought the PPI if she knew that her circumstances made it more difficult to claim on the 
policy because of her condition.
As a result, I think the complaint should be upheld. So it follows that I think Darlington should 
refund the PPI premiums she paid.   
what the business should do to put things right
Darlington should put Ms J in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Darlington should:
Pay Ms J the amount she paid each month for the PPI that covered her.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Ms J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Darlington can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. If that means that no loss has 
been experienced by Ms J, then Darlington would not need to make any payment. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Darlington to take off tax from this interest. Darlington 
must give Ms J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Darlington Building Society 
to pay Ms J as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman