DRN-3308564
The complaint
Mr Q and Mrs Q had complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) avoided 
their home insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay their claim.
For ease, I will only refer to Mr Q.
What happened
Mr Q took out a home insurance policy with RSA online. He later made a claim for a flood at 
his home. RSA investigated the claim and said hed answered the question it asked about 
previous claims incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and decline the claim because of this. 
As it was a careless misrepresentation, RSA also returned the premium paid.
Mr Q brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said there had been 
a qualifying misrepresentation and that it was reasonable for RSA to deal with it as a 
careless misrepresentation.
As Mr Q didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
RSA thinks Mr Q failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out the policy because when it asked about previous claims, Mr Q gave an incorrect 
claim value.
Ive looked at what RSA asked during the sales process about previous claims. Mr Q was 
asked How many home claims have you made in the last 3 years, not including flood 
claims?. For which, Mr Q needed to provide a number. He then had to list each of those 
previous claims, including the claim amount. In my view, RSA asked a clear question. 
Mr Q listed a claim he had made and gave the claim value as £1,500. However, when RSA 
investigated the claim Mr Q later made for a flood, it found that the claim value was £14,318. 
Im aware Mr Q said he didnt know the claim value because he had used his previous 
insurers contractors, so he gave his own estimation of the previous claim value when he 
filled out the sales application. Thinking about this, I think Mr Q failed to take reasonable 
care when he took out the policy in order not to make a misrepresentation.
RSA has said it wouldnt have offered Mr Q cover had it known the true value of the claim. I 
looked at RSAs underwriting information, which confirmed this was the case. This means 
Im satisfied that Mr Qs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. RSA has said it thought the 
misrepresentation was careless because although it thought Mr Q hadnt deliberately mis-
represented it, he could have contacted his previous insurer to confirm the claim value. I 
think that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, Im satisfied that RSA was entitled to avoid Mr Qs policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, RSA doesnt have to deal with 
his flood claim. RSA also refunded the premiums, which was in line with what the law 
required it to do where it was a careless misrepresentation. 
Having thought about all of the above, I think RSA acted fairly and reasonably. I dont uphold 
the complaint or require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman