DRN-3542554
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited settled his claim on his holiday 
home insurance following a flood.
What happened
Mr H had home insurance for a property he owned and rented out as a holiday let, that was 
underwritten by Fairmead. In February 2021 there was a flood at the property and he made 
a claim on the insurance which was accepted.
Mr H had to cancel a number of the bookings while drying and repair work took place. He 
claimed for the lost hire costs during this time. Fairmead accepted most of these claims and 
reimbursed Mr H for the lost costs. However it declined one booking made for the month of 
April 2021. It said it didnt agree the booking had been confirmed as the dates were just 
blocked out on his online calendar rather than showing as confirmed. And it said the guest 
due to visit lived in America so would have been unable to travel due to covid-19 restrictions 
in place at that time. So it said even if the house hadnt suffered a flood the booking wouldnt 
have gone ahead. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair. He said that the guest travelled to the property for work so 
would be able to travel under covid-19 rules. And he said hed done enough to prove there 
was a confirmed booking, and thats what the policy terms covered for. So he thought he 
should be reimbursed for it. He made a complaint but Fairmead maintained its position. So 
he brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
thought Fairmead should re-consider Mr Hs claim for hire charge costs for the booking April 
2021.
Mr H didnt think this went far enough, as he said hed done enough to show a valid claim, so 
Fairmead should be directed to pay the claim.
Fairmead also didnt agree. It said it didnt agree Mr H had shown there was a confirmed 
booking and that there was any financial loss as the guest wouldnt have been able to fulfil 
the booking anyway, due to the restrictions in place. 
As agreement wasnt reached, the matter came to me to decide. 
After reviewing the complaint, I came to a slightly different outcome to our investigator. While 
I agreed the complaint should be upheld, I thought Mr H had done enough to prove he had a 
valid claim. So I thought Fairmead should reimburse Mr H the £3,600 cost of the booking, 
rather than just re-considering the claim. I wrote to both sides to explain my outcome.
Mr H accepted my proposed outcome. However Fairmead didnt. In summary, its objections 
were as follows:
An insurance claim should put the insured in the position they would have been in, had it 
not been for the claim. It didnt think the booking would have gone ahead even if the 
flood hadnt happened due to Covid restrictions. So it considered paying the claim to be 
putting Mr H in a better position. 
It didnt agree there had been a confirmed booking. It said the copy of the online booking 
system provided for this booking differed from others it had paid, as the dates were just 
blocked out, rather than confirmed. 
The booking was made over email, and Mr H responded to the request by saying I have 
reserved [Holiday let] for you for the month of April and can only hope that things have 
calmed down by then. It said this shows that neither party expected the booking to go 
ahead. 
Ive considered these comments, along with all other available evidence, when making my 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead has said that Mr Hs claim shouldnt be covered for two reasons  because the 
booking in question didnt amount to a confirmed booking and because it wouldnt have gone 
ahead even if the flood hadnt happened. Ive addressed each of these in turn. 
Confirmed booking
The policy terms and conditions state cover is provided for:
Loss of hiring charges for bookings actually made and confirmed with You prior to and in the 
event of the Holiday home being so damaged as to render it uninhabitable by any cause for 
which reimbursement is provided under Section lA of this Policy
There is no dispute that the holiday home was uninhabitable, whats in dispute here is 
whether the booking for April 2021 would meet the definition of actually made and 
confirmed.
Mr H has provided emails between him and the guest that he says shows the booking was 
confirmed. Hes explained that the guest stayed regularly at the property, usually in April and 
September each year. And she had previously made a booking for April 2020, paying a 
deposit of £1,800. The email chain shows that she had to cancel that one due to covid 
restrictions at the time. And she initially transferred this to September 2020 and then later to 
April 2021, rolling the deposit over each time. 
When the guest said she wanted to move the booking to April 2021 Mr H responded: I have 
reserved [Holiday let] for you for the month of April and can only hope that things have 
calmed down by then. And he has provided a screenshot of his online booking system 
showing that the whole of the month has been blocked off. 
I think this is enough to show there was a confirmed booking. The guest has already paid a 
substantial deposit which she moved to reserve the month of April. And Mr H confirmed the 
booking in writing, and blocked the dates off, so no other bookings could be made during this 
time. 
Fairmead has referenced other bookings it has paid out for and said that the online booking calendar shows these as green and confirmed bookings. Which it says differentiates them 
from the April 2021 one. But I dont think thats enough to say this isnt a confirmed booking. 
Ive looked at the confirmations for those bookings and they were largely made online. In 
order to make a booking online, payment of the deposit needs to be made to secure it. 
However in the case of the April 2021 booking, the deposit had been paid against a different 
one and needed to be transferred. So I can understand why a different process would need 
to be followed. So I dont agree this means the booking wasnt confirmed, just because a 
different process was followed.
Fairmead has also said that as both Mr H and the guest expressed that they hoped the 
booking would go ahead, this shows that it was more pencilled in than it was confirmed. But 
I dont agree this is a fair approach. As the guest had needed to cancel two previous 
bookings due to the Covid pandemic, it isnt unreasonable that she has concerns about 
travel in the future. But the fact remains that she has paid a deposit to confirm the booking 
and it has been blocked out on the booking system for her stay. So I dont agree this is 
enough to say the booking wasnt confirmed. 
And it is also of consideration that by blocking out the whole of April for this guest, this 
means Mr H is unable to take other bookings. As someone who is running a business, it 
would seem illogical to do that if it wasnt a confirmed booking, as he would be missing out 
on other business. 
For these reasons Im satisfied that Mr H has done enough to show that he had a confirmed 
booking for the month of April 2021. 
Whether the booking would have gone ahead
Fairmead has said that due to Covid-19 restrictions at the time the booking wouldnt have 
been able to go ahead as the guest was based in America and wouldnt have been able to 
travel. Ive asked Fairmead for proof of the rules and legislation at the time to show this and 
its not been able to provide this, or confirm exactly what the rules were. In America the rules 
differed from state to state, and were changing constantly between 2020 and 2021. Some 
allowed international travel for work, and Mr H has said that his guest stayed for work 
purposes. So Im not persuaded that Fairmead has shown the guest wouldnt have been 
able to make the trip. 
But regardless of what the restrictions were at the time, the policy terms only require a 
booking to be actually made and confirmed and there are no exclusions listed for this term. 
There are many reasons why a confirmed booking may not end up going ahead, but the 
policy doesnt take these into account in the cover provided for lost hire costs. Therefore, 
under the policy terms, there is no need for Mr H to prove that the booking would have gone 
ahead. Just to prove that there was a confirmed booking. And, as Ive explained above, Im 
satisfied he has done this. 
For these reasons I maintain my position that Fairmead has acted unfairly by declining Mr 
Hs claim for the lost hire costs for the April 2021 booking. I therefore direct it to pay Mr H 
£3,600 to settle this claim. As Fairmead should have paid the settlement at the same time 
the rest of the claim was paid, it should pay 8% interest from the date it settled Mr Hs other 
claims for loss of hiring charges until the settlement is made to make up for the time he has 
been without the payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance Limited 
to:Pay Mr H £3,600 to settle his claim for hiring costs for April 2021.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date it paid Mr Hs other claim for loss of 
hiring costs until the settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman