DRN-4269519
The complaint
Miss Z and Mr Z complain that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly closed their joint 
account and didnt allow them access to money in the account.
What happened
Miss Z and Mr Z had a joint account with NatWest. Miss Z used the account to receive her 
salary payments. 
In March 2022,  NatWest reviewed Miss Zs and Mr Zs account. Whilst it conducted its 
review the bank blocked Miss Zs and Mr Zs access to the account, this meant Miss Z 
couldnt access the funds in the account and no payments could be made from the account. 
Miss Z was also blocked from accessing the account online. 
Miss Z and Mr Zs account was blocked from 16 March until 29 March 2022. Following this 
NatWest decided to close their account and wrote to them in July 2022 giving them 60 days 
notice that they needed to make alternative banking arrangements. NatWest closed the 
account in September 2022.
Miss Z says she only discovered the account was blocked when she tried to access her 
account online. Shes also said that at the time she was due to go on holiday overseas and 
needed to access money in her account to fund her trip. But when she asked the bank to 
allow her access to some funds in the account, it refused. So not having access to a working 
bank account and funds was very stressful. Shes explained that she went into a branch to 
find out what was happening with the account and also sent emails and made phone calls, 
but NatWest wouldnt give her much information.  
Miss Z complained to the bank about the block and closure of her account. She explained 
that shed had to miss out on doing certain things on holiday due to not having access to her 
account, which was upsetting as it was the first holiday shed taken since the COVID 
lockdown. She also said she had to ask friends and relatives to lend her money which she 
found awkward. In response, NatWest said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in 
line with the terms of the account and relevant regulations when it had blocked and then 
closed the account.
Unhappy with this response, Miss Z and Mr Z brought their complaint to our service. Miss Z 
said that Mr Z was living oversea, and she believes that NatWest discriminated against them 
on the basis of their nationality. She said she was also worried about direct debits not being 
paid due to the block. Overall, she said that the whole experience had been upsetting and 
stressful for her and Mr Z.
 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Z and Mr Zs complaint. She said NatWest hadnt 
done anything wrong when it decided to close the account. However, she said that NatWest 
should have allowed Miss Z access to her salary whilst the account was blocked. She 
recommended NatWest pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused.
NatWest agreed. Miss Z didnt. She said £100 compensation doesnt adequately reflect the 
amount of trouble and upset she was caused. She argued that she spent a number of hours 
trying to sort things out with NatWest and based on her hourly rate she should be 
compensated for her time, which she says amounts to around £700.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with a customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment 
for deciding whether to continue providing accounts and providing an account to a customer 
is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has 
the commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt decline to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Miss Z and Mr Z decided to stop banking with NatWest, 
they wouldnt have to explain why. Based on what NatWest has shared with me, Im satisfied 
their actions were reasonable in the circumstances. And the banks decision to stop 
providing Miss Z and Mr Z with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly. 
NatWest can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. NatWest have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Miss Z and Mr Zs account. The terms explain that the bank can close the account with 
notice. Ive considered the full circumstances of this complaint and I agree NatWest were 
entitled to close the account and Im pleased to see they gave Miss Z  and Mr Z the full 60 
day notice period to allow them to arrange other banking facilities. 
Miss Z says that she believes her, and Mr Z are victims of discrimination by NatWest. And 
that the bank closed their account on the grounds of their nationality and where, 
Mr Z resides. While I can appreciate this is her perspective, it is not my role to decide 
whether discrimination has taken place  only the courts have the power to decide this. I 
have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Miss Z has said when 
deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering 
the provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The Act). And after looking at all the evidence, Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that this was the case. So, I havent found that NatWest 
decided to close the account for an improper reason. 
The crux of Miss Z and Mr Zs complaint is the block NatWest placed on the account. This 
meant Miss Z couldnt access money in the account. Miss Z is upset that when she asked 
the bank it refused to allow her to access her salary, which at the time was very stressful as 
she needed funds to go on holiday. 
NatWest have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply to when an 
account is opened. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons 
from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Its common industry practice for firms to restrict access to an account to conduct a review on a customer and/or the 
activity on an account. The terms of the account also permit NatWest to block an account.  
So, I cant say NatWest treated Miss Z and Mr Z unfairly when it decided to block their 
account.
While I appreciate NatWest are entitled to block accounts while carrying out a review, its 
usually reasonable that a customer still has access to their salary or benefit money. Miss Z 
made NatWest aware of her difficulties and that she was due to go on holiday and needed 
access to her funds. I note too that theres nothing to suggest that NatWest had any 
concerns about the salary payments paid into the account.
NatWest agreed to pay £100 as recommended by the investigator. Miss Z says this isnt 
enough. And says she should be compensated based on her hourly rate. I should explain 
that when we award compensation we consider the impact of the mistake  here NatWest 
didnt allow Miss Z access to her salary for around two weeks. We dont usually award 
compensation on the basis of a complainants business or professional hourly rate. Miss Z 
also hasnt provided any evidence that contacting NatWest meant she lost out on income. 
So, I dont think based on the evidence Miss Z suffered a financial loss. 
Having considered what Miss Z has told us about how NatWests actions impacted her, Ive 
no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for her. She was going on holiday and 
needed funds. She also had to go to the trouble of asking others to lend her money, which I 
appreciate might have been awkward and embarrassing for Miss Z. I can see that she spent 
time contacting NatWest trying to persuade the bank to allow her access to her salary. 
NatWest has accepted it should have allowed Miss Z access to her wages. Im satisfied that 
£100 compensation is fair and reasonable and proportionate to the trouble and upset Miss Z 
was caused. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint. To put things right National 
Westminster Bank Plc should: 
Pay Miss Z and Mr Z £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not 
allowing Miss Z access to her salary
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z and Miss Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman