DRN-4302882
Complaint
Mr A says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly gave him an overdraft 
limit of £2,000.00 which it was evident he was unable to repay.
Background
In February 2020, Mr A successfully applied for six overdraft limit increases in the space of 
four days taking his overdraft limit from £150 to £2,000.00. 
Mr A complained about his overdraft in December 2022. Nationwide accepted that it 
shouldnt have increased Mr As overdraft in February 2020 and it went on to refund all the 
interest Mr A paid from March 2018 onwards in order to put things right. Mr A remained 
dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She thought that what Nationwide had 
already done to put things right was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr A disagreed. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im satisfied that what Nationwide has 
already done to put things right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr As 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Nationwide has accepted that it shouldnt have agreed to increase Mr As overdraft limit in 
February 2020 and it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards Mr A by allowing him to 
continue using his overdraft from this point onwards.   
Where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the business 
to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in 
an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the position theyd now be in if they 
hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt have. However, thats not possible in cases 
where funds that shouldnt have been advanced because typically those funds will have 
already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Nationwide has 
actually gone further here and refunded all the interest Mr A paid on his overdraft from 
March 2018 onwards.  
Mr A has been left with an outstanding balance even though the credits hes made to his 
account have been factored in and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
applied from March 2018. But while Mr A is likely to be left with an outstanding balance to 
repay and he might be unhappy with this, Nationwide has already done more than what Id 
normally expect a firm to do in this position.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr A believes that Nationwide should do even more. As I understand it, hes unhappy at 
being left with a balance and the adverse information registered on his credit file. Ive 
carefully thought about what Mr A has said. 
But all the interest, fees and charges Nationwide shouldnt have added have already been 
removed from the overdraft balance. So all Mr A will be left with to repay are the funds which 
he used. And while I appreciate that Mr A has experienced difficulty, I think its fair and 
reasonable to expect him to continue repaying this in the way that he has been. 
I now turn to Mr As credit file. Mr A is unhappy at the adverse information Nationwide has 
recorded on his credit file. However, hes also said that he has bad judgement when it 
comes to money management. But by asking Nationwide to remove any adverse 
information, Id effectively be asking Nationwide to record that Mr As overdraft has been 
repaid in circumstances where Mr A still has a balance to repay. 
I think that it would be unfair to Nationwide and Mr A, unreasonable its logic and inaccurate if 
I asked Nationwide to amend Mr As credit file in this way  as that doesnt reflect what 
would more likely that not have, or did actually, happen here. 
In my view, requiring Nationwide to amend Mr As credit file in the way hes suggested would 
be counterproductive and arguably not in Mr As best interests, or those of any potential 
lender. This is especially the case as Mr A acknowledges he has bad judgement when it 
comes to money management and making his credit history looking better than it actually 
was, has the potential to exacerbate this. 
Having carefully thought about everything, including everything Mr A has told us, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide reflecting the outstanding balance on Mr As credit file is fair and 
reasonable. So while I can understand why Mr A is disappointed to be left with a balance to 
repay and adverse information on his credit file, Im not satisfied that these are compelling 
reasons for me to depart from our usual approach here. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied unsustainable that what Nationwide 
has already done to put things right for Mr A is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of this complaint. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Nationwide hasnt treated Mr A 
unfairly and Im not upholding his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman