DRN-1905429
The complaint
Mr L complains that IGO4 Limited unfairly cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
On 20 May 2019, Mr L took out a car insurance policy with IGO4. So IGO4 sent Mr L 
several emails asking him for proof of his No Claims Discount (NCD) and confirmation of 
the information hed entered on his insurance application form.
When they didnt receive a response to the emails, IGO4 sent Mr L a letter on 7 June 
2019 asking him to contact them as soon as possible as they held an incorrect email 
address. On the 11 June 2019, IGO4 sent Mr L cancellation notice by email and post asking 
him to provide a copy of his NCD within seven days or his policy would be cancelled.
On 13 June 2019, Mr L called IGO4 and explained that he hadnt received any of 
their previous emails, and hed send the proof of NCD to them. He also updated his contact 
email address with them.
On 17 June 2019, IGO4 received a letter from Mr L showing his NCD. However, Mr L 
didnt notice that the letter from his previous insurer stated the wrong NCD of zero years, 
rather than the one it should have had. As IGO4 didnt receive the NCD confirmation they 
required, they cancelled Mr Ls policy on the 19 June 2019. Mr L complained to IGO4 and 
asked that his policy was reinstated.
IGO4 didnt uphold the complaint. They said that theyd tried to re-quote his policy based 
on zero years NCD, but it wasnt acceptable to the insurer, so theyd had to cancel the 
policy. They said theyd tried to re-quote on another policy for Mr L, but they werent able to 
provide an alternative. Mr L didnt agree and asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He thought that IGO4 
should have given Mr L the opportunity to obtain the correct proof of NCD from his previous 
insurer. He thought that based on what hed seen, if Mr L had been given this opportunity, he 
would have been able to provide this within IGO4s usual timescales.
He also thought it was unfair that Mr L would have to declare the cancellation to 
other insurers when it wasnt his fault. He did note however, that IGO4 said they would 
provide Mr L with a letter that would explain why his policy had been cancelled. But he still 
felt IGO4 should refund the £75 cancellation cost they charged Mr L, and pay him a further 
£100 for the trouble and upset caused.
IGO4 didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. So the case was 
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on the 7 May 2020. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm thinking of 
coming to a different outcome to our investigator. I'll explain why.Looking at the policy terms and conditions, I can see they say, If your insurance is 
cancelled for any reason you will be charged £75. So, I need to decide if Mr L was given a 
fair opportunity by IGO4 to prevent the cancellation of his car insurance policy. In this case, 
I dont think he was. Ill explain why.
I recognise that the policy terms and conditions say We also reserve the right to cancel 
this agreement at any time if there are valid ground for doing so. But, they also say We 
will provide you with sufficient time to re-arrange your insurance. And in this case, Ive seen 
that IGO4 only gave Mr L six days from the date he was aware there was an issue with 
his documentation to actually cancelling his policy. And I dont think this was fair.
IGO4 told us that theyd already given Mr L more time than they would normally to 
respond to their information requests, so they didnt think theyd cancelled the policy unfairly. 
But I dont agree. I say this because IGO4 had the wrong email address for Mr L, so they 
hadnt actually been contacting him when they'd sent the first couple of emails.
IGO4 have confirmed that they sent Mr L an email including his policy documents on the 
20 May 2019, but this was returned saying the email address was incorrect. Theyve also 
said they sent a further email on 4 June 2019 to the same email address - although 
they already knew this was incorrect.
Ive seen that IGO4 then followed this up with a letter on 7 June 2019  which was a 
Friday. So, I think IGO4 ought to have been reasonably aware that as Mr L hadnt been 
receiving their emails, this letter was likely to be the first piece of correspondence Mr L would 
receive from them. And that because of the day the letter was sent, it was likely that Mr L 
would only receive it on or around the 10 June 2019  so they would need to give him a 
reasonable time to respond.
However, Ive seen that on 11 June 2019  the day after he was likely to have received 
the first letter, IGO4 sent Mr L another email and a further letter. This letter said that as Mr 
L hadnt responded to their previous correspondence, his policy would be cancelled on 
18 June 2019 if he didnt contact them. Mr L then responded to IGO4 on the 13 June 2019.
Looking at the case, I can see that Mr L contacted IGO4 on 13 June 2019. He explained 
to them that he hadnt received any previous emails from them, and this was the first time 
hed been made aware there was an issue. He explained that the email address IGO4 
had registered for him was incorrect, and that hed forward the requested information to 
them as soon as possible. However, on 19 June 2019  just four working days later, IGO4 
cancelled the policy.
IGO4 said that Mr L should have realised his NCD was showing incorrectly before 
sending them the documentation. However, looking at our case file, Ive seen that IGO4 told 
our investigator that they would usually give a policy holder fourteen days to provide 
the information, and a further seven days grace before actually cancelling a policy. But in 
this case, I think its likely Mr L was so concerned about meeting the six-day deadline hed 
been given to provide the documentation that he didnt check this in detail before sending it.
IGO4 said theyd contacted Mr Ls previous insurer and were told that he had zero NCD, 
and that theyd already exceeded their usual timeframe for documents to be provided as 
the policy started on 21 May 2019. They also said that Mr L wasnt able to provide the 
correct NCD proof until 1 July 2019, so the policy would have been cancelled regardless. But 
I dont agree. Ive seen evidence that Mr L was able to obtain the proof of the correct NCD 
from his previous insurer in eight working days.Therefore, if IGO4 had given Mr L the twenty-one days they usually give to their customers 
before cancelling a policy, from the point he was aware there was an issue on 13 June 2019, 
he would have been able to provide what had been requested. Or, alternatively they could 
have given him fourteen days from the date he provided the incorrect NCD. Either way 
it appears Mr L would have been able to provide the proof within IGO4s timescale from 
the point he was aware there was an issue  not when he took out the policy. So I dont 
think IGO4 have treated Mr L fairly.
I recognise that IGO4 said they sent a text message to the mobile number they held on 
file for Mr L in early May 2019. And although I havent seen any evidence of the 
message content, Im persuaded by IGO4s system records that one was sent But I still dont 
think they made enough attempts to contact Mr L.
I say this because IGO4 were aware that the email address for Mr L was incorrect as 
soon as theyd tried to contact him, but I cant see that they tried to call Mr L at any point. 
And I think given the importance theyd placed on the information needed from Mr L, and 
the timescales involved, they ought reasonably to have tried to contact him using more than 
one SMS message and/or by phone call.
I acknowledge that IGO4 feel Mr L wouldn't have been able to provide the correct proof 
of NCD in the timescale needed. But I don't think they gave him a reasonable opportunity 
to provide what was needed, and because of this I think IGO4 cancelled Mr L's policy 
unfairly. So I don't think it's reasonable that Mr L was charged the telematics fee for a policy 
he wasn't able to benefit from, or the cancellation fee IGO4 charged him.
On this basis, I think IGO4 should refund Mr L the £150 telematics fee - pro rata'd for 
the days he was insured, and the £75 cancellation fee because the policy ending early. I 
also recognise that Mr L has been caused distress and inconvenience from both having his 
policy cancelled, and being told he would need to declare this cancellation when taking out 
future insurance policies.
Our investigator recommended that IGO4 should pay Mr L £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused. Taking into account the circumstances of how much time Mr L was given to 
provide information and how quickly his policy was cancelled, I think the compensation 
proposed by the investigator is reasonable.
I invited Mr L and IGO4 to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Mr L agreed with my provisional decision. 
IGO4 disagreed with my decision. They said in summary:
The previous insurer had Mr Ls NCD recorded as zero when IGO4 checked with 
them and it was only after this service looked into the complaint that it was updated;
The previous insurer was partly to blame;
They felt that twelve days from the date they sent the letter on 7 June 2019 was 
enough time for Mr L to obtain proof of his NCD and send it to them;
Mr L should have seen that his NCD letter was incorrect before sending it to them, 
and they would have had no reason to question if this was correct.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
I recognise that IGO4 feel Mr L had sufficient time to provide his proof of NCD after theyd 
written to him on 7 June 2019. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, the 
earliest Mr L would have received the letter from them would have been 10 June, and this 
would be dependant on the letter actually being dispatched on the 7 June. However, given 
that Mr L contacted IGO4 on the 13 June to say hed just received it, I think its possible that 
the letter wasnt even dispatched until the 10 June 2019. So I dont agree that Mr L would 
have had sufficient time to obtain the proof of NCD within the timescale that IGO4 required.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ls previous insurer had made a mistake in registering a claim 
incorrectly. However, my role is to look at the complaint against IGO4 based on the actions 
that they took. I recognise that IGO4 feel they wouldnt have any reason to question the 
proof of NCD when it was received from Mr L, but I dont agree. 
Mr L had entered on his insurance application that he had a years NCD, so when the proof 
came through with a different amount, I think it was reasonable for them to believe some 
type of error had occurred. And, if an error had occurred, as it did in this case, that they 
would need to allow Mr L a reasonable amount of time to resolve this  which I dont think 
they did.
Putting things right
As Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, IGO4 Limited must 
do the following:
Refund Mr L the £75 cancellation fee plus 8% standard interest per annum from 
the date it was paid until the date of settlement;
Refund Mr L the £150 telematics fee (pro-rata'd for the time he was on cover) 
plus 8% standard interest per annum from the date it was paid until the date of 
settlement;
Remove all evidence of the cancellation from the CUE database and register 
the cancellation as requested by Mr L not IGO4;
Confirm to Mr L in writing that he doesnt have to report this cancellation to 
future insurers;
Pay Mr L £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. IGO4 must follow the instructions I've set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman