DRN-2497688
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint concerns a delay in the transfer of his ISA to Metro Bank PLC. Although it 
has paid backdated interest relating to the delay, Mr P feels he should also receive 
compensation to acknowledge the time and costs involved in having to resolve the matter. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr P visited a branch of Metro Bank and completed the forms required to 
make a transfer to it from his existing ISA, held with another provide. Due to subsequent 
problems incurred between the providers, the transfer didnt complete until January 2020.
Mr P complained to Metro Bank and, although it didnt accept that it had caused the delays, 
it offered to pay backdated interest to the date when Mr P had started the transfer request. 
Metro Bank didnt, however, agree to Mr Ps request that he be compensated for additional 
visits hed had to make to the branch to try and resolve the problems, as it didnt feel that it 
was to blame. 
The complaint was referred to this service and considered by an investigator. She said, in 
brief: 
Metro Bank sent the transfer forms to Mr Ps existing provider on the day he made 
the transfer request. 
A letter was then sent by the existing provider, dated 11 December 2019, asking 
Metro Bank to re-send the transfer form as it didnt accept Metro Banks branch 
stamp as signed acceptance. 
Upon receipt of the replacement documents, the existing provider sent a further letter 
on 9 January 2020 explaining that it also couldnt accept the certified copy Metro 
Bank had sent.
She was therefore satisfied that the existing provider didnt actually receive the 
correct paperwork until 15 January 2020. So, although Metro Bank had acted each 
time it was asked to resend the documentation, a correct version was only sent in 
January 2020.
The investigator felt that Metro Bank ought to have been aware that the existing 
provider wouldnt accept the branch stamp, as Mr P had completed a similar transfer 
previously, in 2016. So, she concluded that Metro Bank had been at fault for the 
delay.
Although she noted Mr Ps comment about the visits hed made to the Metro Bank 
branch, she felt that these hadnt been strictly necessary and the matter couldve 
been dealt with by phone. 
She suggested that Metro Bank pay £150 to Mr P for the trouble and upset caused 
by the delay.
Metro Bank initially didnt accept the investigators suggested compensation. It felt it had 
generally acted promptly and it didnt think it was reasonable to compare the transfer with 
the previous one in 2016, as procedures could have changed in the interim. 
The investigator responded to stress that she felt, from listening to calls made between 
Metro Bank and the existing provider, that Metro Bank had disputed the need for some 
documentation, so it wasnt just the issue of the branch stamp that had caused problems. 
Metro Bank then agreed to pay the £150. 
Mr P didnt accept the investigators suggested compensation. So, as no agreement could 
be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I appreciate it will have been very frustrating for Mr P to have had his ISA transfer delayed. 
But having looked closely at what happened, I think the resolution Metro Bank has now 
agreed to represents a fair and reasonable way of addressing the issues.
I know Mr P feels strongly that he should be compensated for his visits to the Metro Bank 
branch. But, as the investigator noted, there were alternative ways in which his concerns 
couldve been addressed. Ultimately, it was his decision to make the journeys and so I dont 
think it would be fair to direct Metro Bank to make any payment to compensate for them. 
Looking at the nature of the problems and the resulting delays, I think that compensation of 
£150 is generally fair in the circumstances, given that Metro Bank has already pro-actively 
offered to backdate interest so there is no loss to Mr P in that respect.
Putting things right
Metro Bank must pay Mr P compensation of £150 and backdated interest to the date of the 
start of the transfer, if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Metro Bank 
PLC to pay compensation to Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman