DRN-3021271
The complaint
Mr B complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled and settled his claim for 
subsidence on his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B had home insurance with AXA. In 2016 he made a claim under the subsidence cover 
after noticing worsening damage to a stand-alone garage and boundary wall at his property. 
AXA sent out a loss adjuster who initially declined the claim as they said the damage wasnt 
caused by subsidence. Mr B disputed this, and AXA appointed a new loss adjuster for a 
second opinion. They initially declined the claim due to the damage taking place before 
policy started. However Mr B confirmed that his insurance had previously been with a 
business that had collapsed and cover had transferred to AXA, so the claim was accepted. 
The loss adjuster identified a tree that was causing the damage, which had already been 
removed at the time of the claim. After a period of monitoring AXAs loss adjuster declined 
the claim for the boundary wall. I It said this had been caused by lateral movement  as the 
tree roots had been pushing against the wall  rather than it being affected by downward 
movement caused by subsidence. But it accepted the claim for the garage under the 
subsidence cover and put together a scope of works for the repairs.
Mr B disputed the scope of works as he thought the garage should be underpinned. Due to 
the disagreement AXA said it would offer a cash settlement for the repairs, rather than 
carrying them out. This came to around £12,700 once the excess was deducted. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this. He said the scope of works was inaccurate and didnt agree that 
the claim for the boundary wall should be declined. He provided a report from his own 
structural engineer that recommended underpinning. He also expressed concerns about the 
service he had received from AXA.
AXA treated Mr Bs concerns as a complaint and responded. It said it hadnt seen any 
evidence to suggest its scope of work was inaccurate but said that underpinning wasnt 
necessary because it had shown other repairs were possible to stabilise the structure. 
However, it accepted it had provided poor service to begin with as the claim had been 
incorrectly declined twice which caused delays. It offered Mr B £1,000 compensation to 
make up for this.
Mr B didnt accept this and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought AXA had settled the 
claim reasonably, based on the available evidence. And he thought the £1,000 
compensation it offered was enough to make up for some delays it caused. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has raised a number of different points in relation to this complaint. As this is an 
informal service, Ive not addressed each one individually. Instead Ive focussed on those I 
feel are most relevant. However, I want to reassure Mr B that Ive considered everything hes 
provided when reaching my decision. 
I note Mr B asked for his complaint to remain open until the Subject Access Request (SAR) 
he made to this service has been dealt with. I appreciate there have been some delays in 
providing this. I have considered his request and on reading all the information on file, I dont 
think Mr B receiving the SAR would have any impact on the outcome of this complaint. 
Further, when dealing with complaints we have to be sure we are fair to both sides of the 
dispute, and leaving a complaint open without a resolution for an indefinite period wouldnt 
be a fair way to deal with the complaint. 
Boundary wall
AXA has declined Mr Bs claim for the boundary wall as it says the damage is caused by the 
tree roots pushing against the wall, which isnt something thats insured under the policy. 
Mr B has provided a report from an expert that he says disputes this.
Ive considered all the evidence provided to decide if AXA has acted fairly by declining this 
part of the claim. 
AXA has sent two loss adjusters to look at the damage at Mr Bs property and both have 
come to the same conclusion about the boundary wall  that it is caused by lateral 
movement.
Ive also considered Mr Bs report. It states 
the wall has suffered from heave upwards and also a form of heave pushing the wall over 
to the right. 
And it goes on to say:
This is entirely in keeping with direct contact with a growing and significantly sized tree 
adjacent to that part of the wall at its base. Therefore we have little doubt that the cause of 
the cracking and movement to that area of the boundary wall is heave from direct contact 
with the base and upper roots of the nearby tree
Heave is a peril covered by Mr Bs insurance and is defined in the policy as follows:
The upwards or sideways movement of the site on which your buildings are situation, other 
than settlement, caused by swelling of the ground
So while Mr Bs report refers to the damage being caused by heave, it also concludes that it 
is caused by direct contact with the tree roots. Heave is defined as being caused by swelling 
ground, and not by direct contact with the tree. So I dont agree that Mr Bs report shows that 
AXA should cover the claim for the wall. In fact I think it further supports AXAs position that 
the damage was caused by contact with the tree roots. And as lateral movement isnt 
covered as a peril under the policy I think AXA has acted fairly by declining this part of the 
claim.
SettlementMr B has said that he doesnt think the settlement amount provided by AXA is fair. However 
he hasnt provided anything to show me why it is unfair. AXA has provided a detailed 
breakdown of the costs it has included and having reviewed these costs Im persuaded it has 
based the figure on a fair assessment.
AXA has said that if Mr B gets a quote for the scoped works that is above what it has 
offered, then it would consider this. And I think this is reasonable. 
I understand Mr B would like the garage to be underpinned. And this is the action 
recommended by his experts report. While underpinning would stabilise the garage, I 
wouldnt expect AXA to underpin if other repairs can be carried out instead. Underpinning is 
an expensive and expansive repair. And AXA has shown that the garage is stable and its 
loss adjuster has concluded that repairs can be carried out to the structure which would be 
effective and lasting. So Im satisfied that its acted fairly by not including underpinning as 
part of the settlement. 
Delays
I agree there have been some delays that AXA could have avoided. For example, the claim 
was declined twice before it was accepted. While I think the second decline was reasonable 
 as it needed more information about Mr Bs previous insurance, the first delayed the claim 
being accepted which had an impact on how long it took to resolve. Further there was an 
unexplained delay to the monitoring commencing, which meant this was completed later 
than it could have been.
Mr B has sent in a large amount of correspondence and I think AXA has, on the whole, 
responded to this reasonably and promptly in the circumstances. Further, I can see Mr B has 
prevented AXA from visiting the property on a number of occasions which would have 
delayed the claim, and I cant hold AXA responsible for these delays. 
AXA has offered £1,000 compensation to make up for the delays it has caused, and I think 
this is reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman