DRN-3285351
The complaint
Acting as the appointed executors of the estate of Miss M, Mr R1 and Mr R2 complain that 
Sesame Limited (when it was trading under a different name) provided unsuitable 
investment advice to Miss M in 2003. Sesame recommended Miss M to take out a Norwich 
Union Lifetime Mortgage and release equity for the purpose of (amongst other things) 
investing £50,000 split equally between a Norwich Union Portfolio Bond and Standard Life 
Capital Investment Bond. 
Mr R1 and Mr R2 feel this package did not make financial sense because the return on the 
bonds could never out-perform the cost of using the Lifetime Mortgage to provide the 
£50,000 for investment.  
To put things right, Mr R1 and Mr R2 want compensation for a substantial part of the Lifetime 
Mortgage costs  
Although a different business provided the advice in 2003, Sesame Limited is now 
responsible for dealing with this complaint. So, to keep things simpler, I will just refer in my 
decision to Sesame as the financial business that provided the advice. 
What happened
Miss M approached Sesame in 2003 for financial advice. Over the course of several 
meetings, Sesame carried out a fact find to identify Miss Ms financial needs and objectives. 
The fact find recorded the following information about Miss M:
she was 76 years old, single and without dependents
she was living off a monthly pension income of £513 and had no disposable income
she had savings of £9,000 in a Pep/ISA and £2,800 in her bank account
her attitude to risk was recorded as low to medium
her objectives were to raise capital for home improvements and increase her monthly 
income.
On 11 November 2003, Miss M borrowed £72,150 secured by way of a Lifetime Mortgage on 
her home. A few days later, she invested £50,000 in the two bonds and the balance of the 
cash was used shortly afterwards to pay for the improvements she wanted to carry out in her 
home. 
Sesame didnt uphold the complaint about the Lifetime Mortgage. In brief summary, it said it 
had provided all the necessary paperwork, including an illustration and documentation that 
explained how the Lifetime Mortgage worked and Miss M had to have taken independent 
legal advice before any money could be released to her. It was satisfied that the Lifetime 
Mortgage was suitable for Miss M and her circumstances at the time of the advice. Sesame 
said it had met her objectives by allowing her to carry out home improvements and have an 
additional regular income. 
Sesame agreed however that it didnt give Miss M enough information about the charges 
associated with the bonds. It also accepted that it hadnt established she was willing and 
able to take the level of risk associated with the recommended funds. So it upheld this part 
of the complaint. 
Using an approach we would expect it to take in these circumstances, Sesame worked out 
that Miss M hadnt suffered any financial loss as a result of taking out the recommended 
bonds because the bonds actual value exceeded the amount it calculated would be a 
notional fair value by around £8,400. But it made an offer of £200 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. 
Mr R1 and Mr R2 didnt feel that Sesames offer went far enough to put things right or that it 
had properly addressed the complaint, so they brought the complaint to this Service.   
Our investigator felt that although Sesame couldve provided more information about the 
bonds and they didnt match Miss Ms risk profile, she wasnt financially disadvantaged by 
this and that the offer of £200 for the distress and inconvenience this caused was fair and 
reasonable. She thought that the overall advice given to take out a Lifetime Mortgage and 
use equity release to raise funds was suitable given Miss Ms circumstances as doing this 
enabled Miss M to carry out her planned home improvements and increase her monthly 
income. So it had met her financial objectives.
Mr R1 and Mr R2 disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. They have a 
number of concerns, which I can briefly summarise by saying they mainly feel that the 
adviser did not act in Miss Ms best interests. They say that the adviser did not present the 
further, logical alternative to investing in bonds which would have been to take a lesser initial 
mortgage to cover Miss Ms immediate needs and leave her the flexibility in the future to take 
further drawdowns as needed  which they said could have reduced the liabilities of the 
estate by at least £60,000. They reiterated that a drawdown mortgage would have provided 
greater flexibility to increase or decrease additional drawings for income or to cope with 
further unexpected bills for house maintenance or car replacement. They felt the drawdown 
option would also have avoided the trap that the bonds created of increasing personal 
capital, thereby disqualifying Miss M from any future state assistance that she might have 
needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the 
same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that Miss Ms executors feel strongly about the complaint. But I must look at all 
the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance of probabilities. 
This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. 
I cannot, of course, know exactly what Miss M and the adviser discussed. But I think its 
reasonable for me to rely substantially on the point of sale documentation that Sesame has 
provided to give me an insight into Miss Ms circumstances and financial situation at the time 
and an understanding of her wishes and intentions. 
Ive focused on the core issues that impact on the outcome in deciding the complaint and no 
discourtesy is intended if I do not address every point raised. 
Lifetime Mortgage Looking in particular at the fact find and the suitability letter Sesame sent Miss M setting out 
the reasons why it was recommending her to take out the Lifetime Mortgage, I havent seen 
enough to make me think that the Lifetime Mortgage recommendation wasnt suitable for 
Miss Ms needs at the time. 
It seems that her priorities were to receive advice on cash release and investing the 
subsequent funds. Miss Ms objectives were to cover the cost of home improvements she 
wanted to carry out and boost her monthly income. 
I appreciate that Mr R1 and Mr R2 consider Miss Ms age put her at a disadvantage in her 
dealings with the adviser, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that she presented as a 
vulnerable customer. In the absence of any supporting information, I cant fairly say that her 
age alone made her vulnerable  it was simply one of the features of her situation that 
I would expect the adviser to have considered. 
With her age in mind, it appears the adviser did broach the subject of Miss Ms long-term 
care needs and said this was also an area she should be seeking advice on  and Miss M 
declined. The adviser recorded in the suitability letter he sent Miss M that his advice mightve 
been different if Miss M had asked him to advise on making provision for long-term care. So 
I think it's fair to say that Miss M was aware that the adviser thought this was an important 
consideration but she chose, as she was entitled to do, to focus on the financial priorities 
that she considered were more important to her. 
The adviser explained to Miss M that the Lifetime Mortgage (the Norwich Union Index-linked 
Cash Release Plan he was recommending, out of a range of alternative plans he also 
mentioned) enabled Miss M to take out a loan equal to a percentage of the value of her 
property. He said the loan and interest that would accrue would become payable when 
Miss M died or had to leave her home because she needed long term care (which Miss M 
didnt feel there was any additional need to plan for) and that Any surplus sale proceeds will 
be paid to your estate.
Miss M was sent an illustration showing how the interest was calculated, what the minimum 
and maximum rate of interest would be and details of how much the redemption figure could 
be as time went on. It included a warning that the amount that would be left to Miss Ms 
estate if the plan were to be repaid from the proceeds of selling her home could not be 
predicted with certainty.
As Miss Ms home was her main source of capital, I think it was reasonable for the adviser to 
look to this as a source of capital to meet the financial objectives she had identified. The fact 
find hadnt identified any other sources of sufficient funds to meet Miss Ms financial 
objectives. 
Taking out this mortgage allowed Miss M to release and access value tied up in her home to 
enable her to use that money for her immediate financial requirements, without having to 
make any repayments during her lifetime. 
I think the benefits and downsides of the Lifetime Mortgage were explained reasonably 
clearly to Miss M and I've seen nothing to suggest she didnt understand that the costs of 
the Lifetime Mortgage could impact, potentially significantly, on her estate or that she 
wasnt happy to agree to it.
Miss M took legal advice, as she was required to do, before she was able to take advantage 
of the benefits of the Lifetime Mortgage. So it seems to me that this provides a measure of 
reassurance that even if there were any shortcomings on the part of the adviser when he recommended the Lifetime Mortgage (and I havent seen evidence to suggest there were) 
nevertheless, Miss M had access to other professional guidance and advice before she 
made her decision to sign up to the Lifetime Mortgage. I think it is reasonable to assume that 
even if she didnt use her usual solicitor, the solicitor she was put in touch with will have 
provided Miss M, as the client, with independent advice. I am aware that Mr R1 and Mr R2 
have concerns about the adequacy of the legal advice but that is beyond the remit of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. (The Legal Ombudsman deals with complaints about the 
service provided by solicitors). 
I dont consider that the fact there were a couple of relatively minor errors in the suitability 
letter supports a finding that Miss M must not have read or understood things properly. 
Referring to her nephews as sons and mis-typing the property valuation as £119,000 
instead of £190,000 didnt make any overall difference to the suitability of the advice about 
the Lifetime Mortgage. 
As a result of Miss M not having been required to make repayments to the plan during her 
lifetime and the interest rolling up over this period, the total repayment amount became an 
estate debt and so this reduced the overall value of Miss Ms estate. But preserving the 
value of her estate was not one of Miss Ms financial objectives when she set up the plan. 
And I think she would have understood that paying for the immediate benefits of having the 
money to spend would fall to her estate if she remained in her own home until her death as 
this was explained as part of the sales process and set out in the documentation. Im 
satisfied that the paperwork Ive seen shows that Sesame acted fairly and reasonably in 
terms of the suitability of its advice and in steering Miss M towards obtaining independent 
advice, as it was required to do, to ensure she properly understood the consequences of 
taking out the Lifetime Mortgage. And I find it was suitable for her having regard to Miss Ms 
financial circumstances and needs and objectives at the time in 2003. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this part of the complaint.
Capital Investment Bond & Portfolio Bond
Whilst I am able to consider the suitability of the initial advice to invest in these bonds, in this 
case, the suitability of the advice Sesame gave Miss M isnt any longer in dispute. As 
Sesame has already upheld this part of the complaint, I dont need to say more about the 
sale of the bonds. I will concentrate on what I consider is fair redress to reflect the fact that 
Sesame should not have recommended these bonds to Miss M.
Sesame has acknowledged that the investment in these bonds was at a higher than suitable 
level of risk for Miss M. So it has carried out a comparison with a lower risk benchmark in 
order to assess whether compensation is owed and sent its redress calculation to the 
executors  which I think is a reasonable approach. Sesames calculations show no loss to 
the estate. Sesame also agreed to pay £200 by way of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. This seems fair to me. If Sesame hadnt already volunteered this payment, 
I cant fairly say that I have seen enough to make me think it would be fair and reasonable to 
award any more than £200. 
I am aware that Mr R1 and Mr R2 are looking for substantially more compensation than this 
overall. But, when thinking about what I can fairly and reasonably require Sesame to do to 
put things right, I must keep in mind that I havent identified any financial loss arising from 
anything that Sesame did wrong and redress for distress and inconvenience is owed to 
Miss M, rather than to her executors. This is because Miss M was the bond holder and 
Sesame owed its duty of care to her. It is the impact on Miss M that matters when thinking about whether Sesame has provided fair compensation to reflect the extent and impact of 
what happened. 
My final decision
I dont require Sesame Limited to take any further action beyond what it has previously 
offered to do. Sesame Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that if 
Sesame Limited hasnt already done so, it should pay £200 to Mr R1 and Mr R2 acting as 
the appointed executors of the estate of Miss M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
M to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman