DRN-2283001
The complaint
Mr M complains that Black Horse Limited refused to allow him to reject a faulty car. 
What happened
In November 2018 Mr M acquired a second-hand car costing £5,566 funded by a hire 
purchase agreement. The car was over eight years old and had covered 81,626 miles.
In August 2019 Mr M says he contacted the dealer and said the car was overheating, the 
passenger door was loose, a number plate bulb was required and an indicator needed to be 
replaced. The dealer says it made the repair to the door, but was not told about the number 
plate bulb and it advised him to take the car to a body shop to deal with the indicator 
problem.
The overheating problem was identified as being due to a loose thermostat seal which was 
replaced under the warranty. Mr M complained to Black Horse and it rejected his request to 
be allowed to reject the car. It noted car had covered some 12,000 miles before the fault 
developed and so was unlikely to have been present at the point of sale. It also pointed out 
the car has passed its MOT in August 2019 when it had covered 93,230 miles. It advised Mr 
M to collect the car which he had left at the dealer.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. He said that he had tried to collect the car in 
January 2020, but a window had been left open and this had affected the electrics and there 
was mould on the back seat. When he drove it off the car began to overheat so he took it 
back but it still hadnt been repaired. He said he had continued to pay for the car and insure 
it, but he hadnt been able to drive it.
The dealer said that the car had been brought to it on 29 October it was still at their 
premises. It said that Mr M had brought the car back in January 2020 and the electrical fault 
with the windows had been fixed. 
Our investigator said that things can go wrong with a car, but it doesnt necessarily mean 
that these problems were present at the point of sale. She explained that the burden of proof 
that the fault was present at the date of the sale lies with the customer when it is raised after 
six months. 
Here the fault with the car overheating occurred after six months of acquiring the car. She 
didnt consider Mr M had established the fault was inherent. She said he had been able to 
cover over 10,000 miles before the problem arose. Also, she had seen no evidence of this 
fault reoccurring. She recognised that Mr M had been frustrated by the time taken to repair 
the car, but overall from all the evidence she had seen she didnt believe there were grounds 
for rejection.
Mr M didnt agree and said the car hadnt been fixed under warranty and he had been 
neglected. It hadnt been fixed properly, but he couldnt provide evidence since the dealer 
hadnt been in touch for months. He said his complaint was with the dealer and not Black 
Horse. Our investigator said if he obtained an independent report showing the car had been 
faulty at the point of sale she could reconsider her view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Black Horse is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
While I have every sympathy with Mr M I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr Ms complaint is against Black Horse and my remit does not extend to the service 
provided by the dealer. I have to consider if the car was fit for purpose at the point of sale, 
that is in November 2018. Regrettably I have seen no evidence to support the claim that the 
car was faulty at that point or that it had an inherent fault. 
Although some of the dates are disputed, I believe it is clear that Mr M didnt identify any 
problems until August 2019 some eight or nine months after acquiring the car and after he 
had covered over 10,000 miles. The faults listed were minor apart from the issue of 
overheating. That was identified as a loose seal. That does appear to be a matter of wear 
and tear rather than a pre-existing fault. The car was over nine years old and had covered a 
lot of miles so parts would have suffered from wear and tear.
I appreciate that Mr M says the car was overheating again, but as it hasnt been established 
that this was a fault present at the point of sale it is not a matter which would allow me to say 
he can reject the car. It is a matter that Mr M needs to take up with the dealer. It would be 
wise for him to talk to the dealer about the car and its return. 
In summary, I dont have evidence that would allow me to conclude that the car had a fault 
when it was sold or that it was inherently faulty and so there is no basis for rejection. I cannot 
see that Black Horse has done anything wrong.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman