DRN-3504242
The complaint
Ms V complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) have declined her claim for storm damage under 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms V took out a home insurance policy with QIC. In November 2021 she made a claim on 
her policy when the flat roof to her property was damaged following high winds. She claimed 
for damage to the roof and the internal damage caused by water ingress. 
QIC appointed a surveyor to inspect the property. His report said that the flat roof covering 
had come off and would need to be replaced. Inside the property he reported that the walls 
and ceiling in the bedroom, kitchen and dining room would need drying and redecoration. 
The report concluded that the damage to the roof may not be covered due to its age, albeit 
that we are unable to comment on its exact age or condition given it is now damaged. 
Ms V didnt receive a decision from QIC regarding her claim and made a complaint. QIC said 
the cause of the roof damage was gradual deterioration which was excluded under the 
policy. They didnt think the weather conditions on the day met their definition of a storm, and 
that the roof had suffered from delamination which had occurred over a period of time. They 
declined the claim.
Ms V complained to this service. She said that QIC had used data from a weather station 
some distance from her home and not in a similar position. She didnt think this represented 
the wind speed at the time. She said the storm was well documented and had caused 
widespread damage. She said that her roof was well maintained and regularly inspected.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He concluded that there was a 
storm with wind gusts of at least 55mph and that this was the likely cause of the damage. He 
didnt think that QICs surveyor had provided enough evidence to say that the damage was 
due to the age and condition of the roof. He said QIC should cover the costs of the repair to 
the roof and the internal damage. He also awarded Ms V £200 compensation for poor 
communication.
Ms V accepted our investigators decision but QIC asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
They said that the roof covering coming away from the boarding was evidence of gradual 
deterioration and not storm damage. They also pointed out that Ms Vs neighbours roof was 
undamaged in the storm.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Vs home insurance policy includes storm damage  and covers internal and external 
damage. The terms and conditions define a storm as a period of violent weather with a 
gale of Force 10 or above and reaching wind speeds of at least 55 mph. It goes on to say 
that the property must be maintained in a good state of repair. The policy excludes any 
gradual or maintenance related loss or damage including wear and tear. 
Under the claim section the policy says A well maintained building should withstand all but 
the most severe weather conditions. It is important to remember that you are responsible for 
maintaining your home in a good state of repair. 
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, we ask three questions: 
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to uphold a storm 
complaint.
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
QIC say that the maximum windspeed at the nearest weather station was 46mph and 
therefore there was no storm. This station was 14 miles away and I dont think it would 
necessarily reflect the particular conditions at Ms Vs property, which Ms V says sits in a 
higher location. I therefore think its fair to look at the broader picture of weather conditions in 
the area at the time so Ive also looked at reports from five other local weather stations. 
These recorded gusts between 56 and 74mph. 
Ive also considered the Met Office report of the storm. They referred to the storm as Storm 
Arwen and issued a red weather warning for wind. Winds gusting widely at over 69mph were 
documented. The storm led to widespread reports of structural damage to buildings and 
uprooted trees. The northerly direction of the strongest winds was thought to be unusual and 
added to their destructive nature. Ms V says four other properties in her street were 
damaged in the storm.
Looking at the overall picture of the storm in the location of Ms Vs property, Im satisfied that 
its likely that storm conditions existed as defined in the policy.
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
 
Strong winds are known to damage flat roofs, so Im satisfied the damage is consistent with 
damage typically caused by a storm. Storm weather can also cause damage to internal 
decorations where rainwater has got into the property. Im therefore satisfied that the 
damage to Ms Vs s bedroom, kitchen and dining room is consistent with damage caused by 
a storm.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
QIC say that they believe the damage to the roof occurred as a result of age and general 
wear and tear, and that the winds merely highlighted the poor condition of the roof. Ms V 
says that her roof was overhauled in 2014 and has been regularly inspected since. 
Ive read QICs surveyors report carefully and viewed the photos. The report notes that the 
property was generally in a fair state of repair, and that the proximate cause of the damage 
was storm/high winds. There was no note of any pre-existing or ongoing external building 
defects. The surveyor concluded that the damage to the roof may not be covered due to its 
age, albeit that we are unable to comment on its exact age or condition given it is now 
damaged. From what Ive seen I dont think its fair to conclude that the roof was in a poor state of 
repair before the storm. The surveyors report doesnt provide any evidence of this, and the 
photos were taken after Ms V had attempted some temporary repairs. QICs in-house 
surveyor who reviewed the report and photos said that the roof had delaminated from the 
wooden decking and that the damage was not consistent with the windspeed. However, he 
didnt inspect the property, and QICs note of the review refers to winds of 40mph  whereas, 
as stated above, Im satisfied that it was likely there were wind gusts in excess of 55mph.
QIC also say that the neighbours property was undamaged in the storm and that this 
indicates that Ms Vs roof must have been in a poor condition. However, I dont think this is a 
fair comparison. The neighbours property wasnt inspected, and there is no information on 
the age or condition of their roof. 
On balance I dont think there is enough evidence to say that the damage was due to wear 
and tear. I therefore think that the main cause of the damage was the storm. 
Im satisfied that QICs decision to decline the claim was unfair, and that they should now 
deal with both the internal and external damage. In December 2021 Ms V carried out 
emergency repairs to the roof in order to try to mitigate any further water damage. These 
cost £348. I think it reasonable for QIC to reimburse this. I understand that Ms V has also 
now completed the full repairs to the roof. I think it was reasonable for her to do this to 
prevent further damage. QIC should reimburse the full costs to Ms V. QIC should also 
arrange for the internal repairs to be carried out as these have not been done.
Ive also considered the issue of compensation. QICs communication with Ms V has been 
poor. She regularly chased QIC for updates and emailed on a number of occasions with 
concerns about further rain damage. It was more than four weeks before QIC confirmed they 
were declining the claim, and this was only after Ms V complained. I think that the lack of 
communication added to Ms Vs distress and inconvenience and an award of £200 
compensation is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay to Ms V the cost of the emergency repairs, and the cost of the full roof repairs, 
upon production of invoices, less any excess payable;
Pay 8% interest on the repair costs already paid by Ms V from the date she made the 
payment to the date of settlement; and 
Pay Ms V £200 compensation.
If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms V how much its taken off. It should also give
Ms V a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman