DRN-4395885
The complaint
The estate of Mr N complains OneSavings Bank Plc unfairly retained and obstructed the 
executors efforts to disperse cash savings which were due to the estate. 
What happened
Mr N held a cash investment with OneSavings. Sadly, he passed away in November 2014. 
Mr Ns accountant provided notice of his passing to OneSavings in December 2014. The 
bank replied to the accountants a few days later to give the balance of the investment, and 
to provide instructions on how the executors could assume control of it.   
In June 2015, the executors of Mr Ns estate made contact with OneSavings. They explained 
probate had been acquired, and asked the bank to transfer the proceeds of Mr Ns 
investment to his widow. OneSavings replied to explain what the executors would need to do 
in order to take control of the investment, and asked to see a copy of the grant of probate. 
OneSavings received no reply to this letter. Over the years, the bank continually reinvested 
Mr Ns funds into new savings products. In April 2022, OneSavings wrote to the accountant 
itd heard from in 2014, to explain it still held Mr Ns funds and that it needed to see a copy of 
the grant of probate in order to release them. 
Following this letter, OneSavings and the executors discussed Mr Ns investment. The 
investment was ultimately released to the executors for it to disperse appropriately. Shortly 
thereafter, in October 2022, the executors complained to the bank. They complained that: 
1. OneSavings had failed to notify the executors of the existence of Mr Ns pot of 
savings and shouldve followed up with them sooner. 
2. When they eventually made contact, the executors argued OneSavings made the 
process of taking control of Mr Ns money difficult and time consuming. 
The bank issued a pair of responses to the complaint. For the service it provided during the 
closure of the investment, it offered £100 as an apology. But it rejected their concerns with 
retaining the funds. As the executors didnt accept OneSavings response, they referred their 
complaint to our service. 
Upon referral to our service, OneSavings explained it would not consent to us investigating 
any matters which would fall outside of the time limits described in DISP 2.8.2R. As a result 
of this, I decided we could consider the estates complaint about any events which took 
place on or after 23 October 2016. But that we did not have the power to consider the 
estates complaint about matters which took place prior to that date. 
Our investigator proceeded to consider the events which took place on and after 23 October 
2016. In summary, they found that: 
OneSavings was at fault for retaining and reinvesting the estates money, because it 
knew the executors had already asked for it to be returned. 
They didnt feel it would be fair or reasonable to award compensation for distress or 
inconvenience, because the eligible complainant, the estate, is incapable of feeling 
distress or inconvenience. 
They didnt feel it would be fair or reasonable to hold the bank responsible for the 
various losses claimed by the estate, because the evidence showed the executors 
knew OneSavings still held the estates funds and didnt mitigate their losses by 
following up sooner. 
As the estate did not accept our investigators findings, the matter has been referred back to 
me for a decision on its merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by saying that as per my decision on jurisdiction, because of the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2R, Im only deciding on matters which took place on or after 23 October 2016. I do not 
have the power to decide on the estates complaint about the matters which took place prior 
to this date. I can however consider the relevant facts from this period, and use them to 
inform my decision about the parts of the estates complaint which fall within our jurisdiction. 
Having considered what I can of this complaint, I agree with the findings made by our 
investigator, for largely the same reasons. 
Firstly, Im satisfied that from 23 October 2016 onwards, OneSavings is at fault for not 
following up with the executors sooner than it did. The evidence shows that as of 2015, it 
knew Mr N had passed away and that his executors were seeking to disperse his savings. 
But it had asked for and not received the paperwork necessary to grant their request. 
Despite knowing this, OneSavings continually wrote directly to Mr N when his savings 
matured, advising him that his funds would be reinvested. In my opinion, knowing what it 
knew, and treating the estate fairly as regulations required, it should have followed up with 
the executors much sooner than it did. 
Had OneSavings done so, some of the likely consequences of this would have been that: 
1. The estate wont have received the interest from OneSavings that its money attracted 
whilst it remained invested. 
2. The dispersal of the estates funds would likely have happened more quickly, which 
is likely to have mitigated or perhaps avoided some of the losses the executors are 
claiming for. 
Despite this, the evidence and circumstances of this complaint do not persuade me it would 
be fair or reasonable to award the estate any compensation. I shall explain why. 
In my opinion, the claims the executors have made around delays paying beneficiaries and 
difficulties settling the estate, are undermined by their knowledge that throughout the period 
in question, OneSavings was still retaining Mr Ns money. 
The letter the executors sent OneSavings in 2015 shows they were clearly aware the bank 
held funds which belonged to the estate. The executors claim they never received a reply to 
this letter, though I note OneSavings has insisted one was sent. But even if I take the 
executors at face value here, if they were aware the estate was facing difficulties caused by 
the absence of the money at OneSavings, in my view and in spite of the banks mistakes, it 
would fairly and reasonably be incumbent upon them to have followed the matter up and mitigate the estates losses. I note the executors did not do so until many years later after 
OneSavings erroneously contacted Mr Ns former accountant, instead of the executors 
directly. 
Because of this, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable of me to direct OneSavings to pay 
any losses the estate has experienced as a result of not acquiring the funds sooner. And for 
the same reasons, I shant be awarding the estate any additional interest, over and above 
what it earnt by leaving the money invested with OneSavings. 
Ive considered the executors complaint about poor service when it contacted the bank more 
recently to acquire Mr Ns savings. Having studied OneSavings submissions, it seems 
theres no dispute that this service should have been better than it was. This is regrettable. 
And will doubtless have been both distressing and an inconvenience to the executors. But as 
regrettable as it is, I can neither increase nor enforce the offer of £100 OneSavings made to 
the executors.  
Our services powers allow me to award compensation for non-financial losses to eligible 
complainants. In this case that means the executors poor experience of OneSavings 
service is excluded from consideration. Because here, the eligible complainant is the late Mr 
Ns estate, not the executors themselves. And Mr Ns estate is an entity which is incapable 
of being distressed or of feeling any inconvenience. Because of this, Im satisfied it would not 
be fair or reasonable of me to award the estate any compensation in these circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold the estates complaint about OneSavings Bank Plc. But I do not 
require the bank to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman