DRN-2027172
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Allianz Insurance Plcs (Allianz) handling of a claim he made under his 
commercial insurance property. For ease, any references to Allianz include its agents.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr B was contacted by his neighbour to let him know her property appeared to 
be suffering cracking, and the damage was on an adjoining wall to Mr Bs property. Mr B 
contacted Allianz to notify them of a potential claim. They sent a loss adjuster out who said 
the damage actually appeared to be as a result of historic lateral movement of an external 
supporting beam, rather than downward movement of the ground, which might indicate 
subsidence. Allianz declined Mr Bs claim.
Unhappy with this response, Mr B and his neighbour hired a builder who, along with a 
structural engineer, took down the wall between the two properties and identified a faulty 
fitted council drain on the pavement as the cause of the damage. Mr B and his neighbour 
decided to pay for the damage to be repaired as a matter of urgency, deciding to revisit the 
claim with their insurers at a later date. 
In 2019, Allianz considered further information Mr B provided from his local council and his 
engineer. Allianz gave thought to whether the claim should be considered under the 
accidental damage peril and asked its loss adjuster to consider the new information. The 
loss adjuster said the evidence provided suggested the damage as a result of a faulty drain 
and had occurred over a long period of time, predating the start of the policy. On this basis, 
Allianz declined the claim under this clause. 
Mr B didnt accept Allianzs conclusions and asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint but said, from the evidence provided, Allianz 
had demonstrated the most likely cause of the damage was lateral movement, which wasnt 
covered by Mr Bs policy. As Mr B didnt accept this conclusion, this matter has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator, Ive considered the expert reports provided. The first, from Allianz in 
late 2018, identified some signs of movement around the door and window sill, but found this 
movement was historic. The overall conclusion was there was no evidence of recent 
subsidence damage and the claim was declined. On the basis of this report, I consider 
Allianz was entitled to decline the claim as there didnt appear to be an insured event for 
which Mr B could claim. 
Ive gone on to consider the report from February 2019 provided by Mr B, which indicated 
there was evidence of both lateral and vertical moment. The report specifically mentioned 
the lateral movement of the pier between Mr Bs property and his neighbours property. In 
addition to this, the engineer found a drain pipe in front of the properties drained backwards 
which, over time, had weakened the clay underneath the property and contributed to the 
movement.
I can understand why, in the face of this report, Mr B and his neighbour felt they had to act 
quickly to carry out the repairs. So, Ive considered Allianzs obligations to Mr B under the 
policy in light of the report provided by Mr B, and request for reimbursement. And I think it 
was right that Allianz instructed its loss adjuster to consider the matter further. 
However, as the repairs had been carried out, the loss adjuster had to base their findings on 
the information available  namely the most recent report from Mr Bs engineer. Again, I 
think this was a reasonable course of action to take in the circumstances. 
Allianz subsequently declined the claim for a second time, having considered it under the 
accidental damage clause. The loss adjusters report from May 2019 made the finding the 
damage had been occurring for a long period of time, and the policy excluded gradual 
damage. From the evidence provided, I think its clear the damage hadnt occurred as a 
result of a one-off event. Its widely accepted the damage caused by the faulty drain caused 
damage to the clay underneath the property and this occurred over time. Im satisfied Allianz 
is entitled to decline the claim under the accidental damage clause.  
As our investigator has said, all the reports were visual ones, and further inspection isnt 
possible now the repairs have been carried out. And having considered the information 
provided, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
I acknowledge theres some indication of historic movement, but that in itself isnt sufficient 
for me to say the claim should be considered under the subsidence clause. Having 
considered all the reports and evidence provided, they indicate the most likely cause of the 
damage was the lateral movement to the pier which occurred over time as a result of the 
faulty drain. On this basis, I think Allianz is entitled to decline Mr Bs claim, and while I know 
this isnt the answer Mr B will be hoping for, Im not going to recommend Allianz take any 
further action in respect of his claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman