DRN-2749227
The complaint
This is a complaint that NRAM Limited mis-sold Ms B payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2000 to cover a 
mortgage. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms B, through her representative, 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI took place about 20 years ago and, not surprisingly, some of the original 
documents from the time are not now available. As the mortgage and PPI finished in 2006, 
NRAM and the insurer wouldnt be required to still keep all the records.  
Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago, so 
it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Ms B has said the PPI was added without her knowledge. However, it wouldnt be fair for me 
to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. As a 
general principle of fairness, where someone has said another person or organisation has 
done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago. And I dont see that I have strong-enough 
evidence to conclude that NRAM acted unfairly in the way Ms B believes. 
Also, I think there is at least some evidence that NRAM sought to gain Ms Bs consent. It is 
true that the form, where Ms B would have been expected to sign to confirm her application 
and direct debit mandate, has not been produced as evidence (although it is clear, from the 
insurers computer records, that a direct debit was set up). But I have seen a letter to Ms B 
saying that the original PPI application form had not been fully completed and enclosing the 
form for her to complete. Given that NRAM took the step of writing this letter, rather than just 
automatically setting up the PPI without her proper written application, I think its unlikely it 
then went ahead anyway and set up the PPI without that consent. 
Ms Bs representative has said that the form, mentioned as attached to the letter, is likely to 
have been one in which an intermediary asked NRAM to provide a quote for PPI to Ms B, 
and not an actual PPI application form. But I think thats unlikely. NRAM would have needed 
to have the proper application form filled in and signed, so that it could send the application 
on to the insurer  not least because it is likely to have received a commission and wouldnt 
otherwise have earned it unless the PPI policy was set up properly. 
But, regardless of this, I still think this is evidence to show that NRAM was unlikely to have 
set up the PPI without Ms Bs knowledge or consent. 
Ms Bs representative also says that Ms B had a disability and was vulnerable. She says the 
follow-up letter asking Ms B to return the completed form immediately or lose certain 
benefits was a classic pressurised sale technique, and this was unfair to vulnerable adults. 
The representative, who is a close relative of Ms B, says she knows Ms B would have 
viewed the wording of the letter as an instruction. 
The letter, which was pre-printed but with Ms Bs name and address written in by hand, said:
To ensure you do not lose the benefit of the 6 months free premiums, please 
compl[ete] all the highlighted areas and return the form immediately in the pre-paid 
envelope provided.
I dont have any evidence that NRAM was made aware of Ms Bs disability and vulnerability, 
or that it should have suspected she would regard the follow-up letter as an instruction rather 
than an invitation. And I dont think that the wording could be regarded as excessive or 
unfair. Companies are entitled to market their products and to enthuse about the benefits of 
those products, as long as they dont make false claims or mislead people. And I dont think 
the wording of this letter went beyond what was reasonable or fair. 
Ive looked at other possible ways the PPI might have been mis-sold to Ms B. But, as I will 
explain, I dont think these apply. 
I dont think NRAM recommended the PPI to Ms B, in the sense of telling her it had 
assessed her circumstances and was recommending the PPI as being particularly suited to 
her individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would instead have been for Ms B to decide whether it was suitable.  
It did though need to give her reasonable information, so she could make an informed 
choice. And its hard to know how well NRAM explained the costs and benefits of the policy 
 it may have done so properly, but I dont have proof of that. Failure to give enough 
information does not, in itself, mean that there was a mis-sale: instead what matters is 
whether better information would have resulted in the customer not taking the policy. 
So, in such a situation, I think about whether full information is likely to have caused Ms B to 
have changed her mind about taking PPI (assuming she actually made a choice  I accept 
shes saying she never agreed to it). Of course, I cant really know what would have 
happened; but I dont think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Ms B took the PPI. I say this because finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. Ms B has said she wasnt entitled to any 
significant employer sick pay and didnt have substantial savings to fall back on. So it seems 
to me she could have faced difficulties, if she was off work long term through sickness or 
redundancy. (The PPI would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay or employer sick pay.) The PPI would have put Ms B in a more secure 
position. So, I dont think better information would have made the PPI seem less useful.Ms B has said she started to suffer in 1998 from a medical condition. To maintain Ms Bs 
privacy, I wont name that condition here  but it was a very common condition which affects 
people to varying degrees, and sometimes can lead to time off work. Sometimes, over time, 
it can be very debilitating and can prevent people from working long term.  
Ms B had thought this was a consequence of the nature of her work. She took pain killers 
and had some days off work, but not enough to require a doctors certificate. It started to be 
more troublesome in the early 2000s. Eventually she had surgery for a different, later-
diagnosed condition, and the representative believes that this was in fact the cause of the 
other condition.   
The policy had a restriction that stopped you claiming for the recurrence of medical 
conditions you already knew about, or that had been recently treated. Ms B says her 
disability meant she would have had difficulty understanding any written information. So Ive 
thought about whether better, understandable, information about this exclusion in the policy 
would have put Ms B off taking the PPI. However, I think its unlikely.
Ms B had not taken significant time off work by the time the PPI started; and, at the time, I 
think its unlikely shed have expected to need to make a claim on the PPI as a result of that 
condition. Later she discovered it was likely to have been a symptom of a more significant 
illness. But what matters is whether information about the exclusion, in 2000 when the PPI 
started, would have made her decide against the PPI. I think its unlikely  especially as the 
PPI didnt pay out until you had been off sick for 60 days. 
Overall, I dont have strong enough evidence that the PPI was mis-sold to Ms B. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman