DRN-2186890
The complaint
Mr I says that he was mis-sold a finance agreement under which he took a car on hire 
purchase from MotoNovo Finance Limited.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr I entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo to acquire a car. 
Hes explained that he discussed the car with the dealership which introduced him to 
MotoNovo. Because the car was some distance from his home and he was in any event on 
holiday, those discussions were conducted remotely. He signed the necessary paperwork, 
including the finance agreement, before he saw the car and only went to the dealership on 
the day he collected the car. He therefore had only a limited time to inspect it. 
Mr I says that he was misled, primarily by the dealership, about the car and about the 
finance arrangements. In summary, he says:
The car was not of satisfactory quality. Specifically, Mr I says some panels were 
misaligned, indicating poorly repaired accident damage. 
The car came with a warranty and breakdown cover. However, they would not cover 
him for commercial use, and he needed the car to use as a taxi. 
He was told that he had to collect the car in person. Had it been delivered to him, he 
would have had additional consumer protections which would have enabled him to 
cancel the agreement within 14 days. 
He was told there was no mileage limit under the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr I complained to MotoNovo but it didnt accept that it had done anything wrong. It said 
that: an independent inspection of the car concluded it was unlikely the car had been in 
accident as Mr I had suggested; there was no evidence that the dealership had pressured 
Mr I into agreeing to take the car; the warranty and breakdown cover were separate 
arrangements with the dealership; Mr I did not have the same consumer protections he 
would have had if goods had been delivered to his home address. 
Mr I referred the case to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He was 
however broadly in agreement with MotoNovo and didnt recommend that it do anything to 
resolve the complaint.
Mr I didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case, as hes entitled to do under our rules.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for 
similar reasons. 
Ill deal first of all with Mr Is complaint that the car had been poorly repaired after an 
accident. He said that because there was some misalignment of body panels. An 
independent report agreed that there was minor misalignment in some areas, but found no 
evidence of accident damage or of any other faults that would mean the car was not of 
satisfactory quality. Im not persuaded that there were any such faults. 
The warranty and breakdown cover were not financed by MotoNovo. I have however 
considered whether it might be liable for statements made about them. It could be liable if, 
for example, the dealership was acting as MotoNovos agent and those statements induced 
Mr I into entering into the finance agreement. Im not persuaded that was the case, however. 
In my view, Mr I would have taken the car under the agreement with MotoNovo in any event 
 perhaps with more suitable warranty and breakdown arrangements. In any event, I agree 
with the investigator that the evidence about this is very limited and not, in my view, 
persuasive.  
I note that Mr I lost some protections when he collected the car in person. He had by then 
already agreed to the hire purchase arrangements. That was his choice. Again, theres very 
little by way of evidence to support Mr Is case that he was told he would have additional 
protection. I would comment in addition though that I dont believe there was any obligation 
on the dealership or MotoNovo to advise Mr I about the potential loss of his rights to cancel 
the agreement if he collected the car in person.
Mr I has also said that he was told that there was no mileage limit under the hire purchase 
agreement. As far as Im aware, though, MotoNovo hasnt charged any excess mileage, so I 
make no comment on that. If it does, Mr I may be able to raise that issue separately.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require MotoNovo Finance Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Is complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman