DRN-4228042
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a van 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a van, first registered in 2017.
Mr S was self-employed. For the year from early June 2022, Mr S had the van insured on a 
policy in the name of an insurance intermediary. Advantage was the insurance company 
responsible for dealing with any claim. Any claim (except a glass claim) was subject to an 
excess of £200.00.
Much of the complaint is about acts or omissions of the intermediary on behalf of Advantage. 
Insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for such acts or omissions I may refer to them as 
acts or omissions of Advantage.
The van broke down and Mr S engaged a mobile mechanic to repair it. Unfortunately, the 
mechanic took parts from the van and subsequently became insolvent. Mr S still had the 
van, but it was unrepaired and had parts missing. 
He made a claim to Advantage, and it took the van away for a time. In about August 2022, 
Advantage declined the claim.
Mr S complained to Advantage that it shouldve met his claim. in mid-August 2022, 
Advantage wrote a final response to that complaint.
Mr S brought that complaint to us. 
In November 2022, Mr S sold the van.
By early January 2023, our first investigator said that Advantage had made a fair offer to:
1. pay  in addition to the £150.00 already paid  a further £200.00 in 
compensation; and
2. pay £249.00 hire car cost reimbursement (plus 8% simple interest); and
3. re-assess a theft claim. 
In late January 2023, Advantage paid the claim as follows:
hire cost £3,237.00
parts £   585.38 
less excess £   200.00
total £3,622.38
In late February or early March 2023, Mr S made a further complaint to Advantage that it 
shouldve paid him more for the theft settlement. By a final response dated 10 March 2023, 
Advantage turned down that complaint. Mr S asked us to investigate.
Our second investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt 
think that Advantage had done anything wrong here. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He says, in summary, that:
He shouldnt have had to pay hire costs in the first place.
This ordeal has cost him a large sum of money which wouldnt have had to happen if 
Advantage had upheld their insurance contract when they had the chance. 
He only chose to sell the van once Advantage declined the claim
It should be clear to anyone who is reasonable that this is not a fair settlement when 
taking everything that has happened into account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules.
Mr S and Advantage accepted the outcome recommended by the first investigator. So the 
only outstanding issue was how Advantage would re-assess the theft claim. Mr S made a 
new complaint about that.
In line with the rules, Im reviewing the second investigators opinion on that complaint. Im 
not going to review the earlier complaint about delay and turning down the claim in about 
August 2022 or the consequences of that. Mr S considers that the consequences included 
the costs of hire from early July to mid-October 2022 and his need to sell the unrepaired van 
in November 2022.
Im going to focus on the settlement of £585.38. That was of course subject to deduction of 
the excess of £200.00 and I consider that deduction was in line with the policy terms and not 
unfair.
Ive seen a garage estimate that includes a sub-total of £585.38 as the cost of a list of (new) 
replacement parts. On balance I accept that these were the parts that were missing from the 
van as a result of the acts or omissions of the mobile mechanic. 
However, the criminal offence of theft involves not only the taking of goods but also other 
elements. These include an element of dishonesty and an intention permanently to deprive 
the owner.
The context was of a broken-down van requiring partial dismantling for investigation and 
repair. There isnt enough engineering evidence to show what parts were removed and set 
aside for re-installation and what parts were removed and discarded as waste.Also the insolvency is likely to have prevented the mechanic from returning to re-install any 
parts that had been set aside.
I havent seen enough evidence to show any element of dishonesty. So Im not persuaded 
(even on the balance of probabilities) that the mechanic committed a theft.
It follows that the settlement of £585.38 is more than I would otherwise have found fair and 
reasonable. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mr S any more 
in settlement of his theft claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman