DRN-4371818
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to provide him with adequate support 
despite being aware of his compulsive gambling problem.
What happened
Mr T says he opened a current account with Monzo in 2019 after he heard a representative 
from the bank speak at a gamblers anonymous meeting where they promoted the various 
protections the bank offered compulsive spenders. 
Mr T has explained that when he opened the account he fully disclosed the fact that he had 
a gambling problem and that he was getting help for it. He immediately applied the gambling 
block Monzo offered to his account. 
Unfortunately, in 2021 Mr T relapsed and removed the block from his account and 
proceeded to gamble which resulted in losses. Mr T contacted the bank and explained what 
had happened. Notes were added to his account, it was referred to the vulnerable consumer 
support team and the blocks were put back on. In addition, Mr T asked that the daily ATM 
limit be reduced to £200 which Monzo did. 
Unfortunately, in July 2022 Mr T relapsed and started gambling again. This ultimately 
resulted in him amassing a lot of debt and having to rely on family and friends to help him 
financially. He has said this had a devastating impact on his physical and mental health and 
that Monzo should be held liable for the losses he had during this period because it was 
aware he was vulnerable and didnt stop him from gambling. Mr T has said hes lost £76,000 
gambling since opening his Monzo account in 2019. 
Monzo has said when Mr T contacted it asking for the blocks to be removed its 
representatives did all they could to safeguard Mr T but that ultimately he insisted he was 
fine and in control of his actions. So, it didnt think it couldve done more as its obliged to 
follow his instructions on his account. 
Mr T disagreed with Monzo and felt it shouldve known he was unwell and relapsing and 
shouldve refused to remove the gambling block from his account. He believes if the block 
hadnt been removed he wouldnt have lost the money he did. He wants Monzo to cover the 
cost of those losses and pay him compensation for the upset and distress it caused. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint already. He found that Monzo had 
offered sufficient support to Mr T in regard to his compulsive spending, and so he didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint and so its been passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Id like to explain why. 
Id also like to clarify Mr T previously brought a complaint to our service about the lending 
decisions around an overdraft facility that was added to his account in July 2022 as well as a 
personal loan. Those issues have already been addressed by an ombudsman at this service 
and so I wont discuss them here again. Instead, Ill just focus on whether or not the support 
Monzo gave to Mr T was sufficient. 
Its clear from the account history and notes that Mr T made Monzo aware when he opened 
the account in 2019 that he had a history of compulsive spending, specifically problem 
gambling. He immediately requested that the gambling block be added to his account and 
that his daily cash withdrawal be limited to £100. 
It appears the account was well run until Mr T relapsed in April 2021. He removed the 
gambling block via the app on his phone and proceeded to gamble. He contacted Monzo 
and asked it if it could reapply the block and remove his ability to take it off via the app. 
Monzo explained it wasnt possible to do this but that he could extend the cooling off period 
from the standard 48 hours to up to a month. Which would mean when he wanted to remove 
the block he wouldnt be able to gamble until the cooling off period had ended. 
Mr Ts account then ran as normal and there were no more gambling transactions made on 
it. In July 2022 Mr T contacted Monzo and asked that it remove the gambling block 
temporarily in order to allow him to purchase a game on his phone. He assured the 
representative he spoke to that once the purchase has been completed he would reapply the 
block. While the block wasnt immediately reapplied, Monzo did add it back onto Mr Ts 
account a short time later. 
The next time Mr T contacted Monzo about his gambling was November 2022. He asked for 
the gambling block to be removed again and for his cash withdrawal limit to be increased to 
£800. He was questioned by the Monzo representative he was chatting to, and Mr T 
explained he was going away for the weekend and needed access to cash as activities hed 
booked were cash only. He told the person he was speaking to that hed reduce the limit 
back down once he returned home. The gambling block remained in place, but the limit was 
increased as per Mr Ts instructions. He assured the person he was speaking to that he was 
okay and getting support. 
In early December 2022 Mr T contacted Monzo to request the gambling block be removed 
from his account immediately. This was shortly after hed received his monthly salary. The 
Monzo representative queried why Mr T wanted to remove the block and asked him if 
everything was okay as they were reluctant to remove the block given the notes on his 
account. However, Mr T told them I am in control of my gambling, and this being blocked 
is causing me severe frustration.  I understand you may have concerns about my 
gambling, but I am giving you my word everything is okay. I suggest the gambling block is 
turned off in the next hour before I consider legal action
Ultimately Monzo couldnt refuse to remove the block when Mr T insisted that it was taken 
off. I would expect Monzo to query why Mr T wanted the block to be removed and whether 
everything is okay. And Im satisfied that Monzo did this every time Mr T got in touch asking 
for the block to be removed. But there are limits to what banks can do in this space. And Mr 
T was entitled to request the block be turned off. I can see that in January 2023 Monzo 
resent Mr T information regarding the gambling block and other tools and services that may 
be of use to him, so it does seem as though it was trying to provide him with ongoing support even when he said he didnt want it. 
I understand this has been devastating for Mr T and that the impact of his addiction has 
been hugely detrimental. But Monzo has an obligation to allow their customers to run their 
accounts the way they want to. And while Monzo has tried to create safer spaces for people 
with compulsive spending problems to access financial support, it cant refuse someone 
access to their funds when they demand it. Each time Mr T asked to have the gambling 
block removed the representative he spoke to asked if he was okay and questioned why he 
wanted to remove the block. And each time Mr T gave reasonable explanations and 
assurances that he was fine and safe. So, I cant say that Monzo failed to support Mr T or 
failed to apply friction when he asked for the block to be removed. And therefore, I cant 
uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman