DRN-1518735
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained about AXA Insurance UK plcs handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes their agents.
What happened
Mr Bs car was insured with AXA. In November 2018, he was involved in an accident and 
damage was caused to his car. He claimed on his AXA policy. One of AXAs approved 
repairers (AR) carried out the repairs. 
Mr B complained that further damage was caused to his car while it was with AXAs AR. He 
said the left hand rear seat base was broken. He wanted AXA to put that right. AXA said 
their AR had no reason to handle that part of the car while they repaired the accident related 
damage. So, they said it must have been pre-existing damage.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She felt that there 
wasnt enough evidence to show that AXAs AR was responsible for the damage to the seat 
base. As Mr B didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr B, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In his complaint, Mr B has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is 
to decide if AXA have dealt with Mr B in a fair and reasonable way.
After Mr B raised his concern, AXA instructed an independent engineer to examine the car. 
That engineer concluded that the damage to the seat base was pre-existing. Therefore it 
wasnt caused by the accident or by AXAs AR. The engineer also confirmed that as part of 
the repair work the AR had no reason to work on the inside of the car. The AR also 
confirmed that and said they didnt touch or handle the rear seat area. 
Mr B had his car looked at by a main dealer garage. They said the back seat base appears 
to have been lifted on N/S [nearside] corner causing frame to bend unrepairable, new seat 
base required. While that confirms the seat base was damaged it doesnt give any insight 
into when or by whom the damage was caused.
Both Mr B and AXA have provided number of photos of the rear seat area. Mr B said the 
photos prove damage was caused while his car was at AXAs AR. AXA said the photos dont 
show any difference in the position of the seat before and after the repairs. Having looked at 
those photos myself, I dont agree that they prove the seat base was damaged while at 
AXAs AR.
I dont think the available evidence supports Mr Bs claim that the damage was caused while 
the car was in AXAs ARs care. I therefore think AXAs decision to not repair the seat base 
was reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman