DRN-3352444
The complaint and what happened 
Mr G complains Nationwide Building Society wont refund money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr G came across the investment opportunity with Wisebanc when a pop-up advert 
appeared on his computer. He provided contact details and was called back. He was 
persuaded to invest a total of £17,809.55 although he received £300 back. Those 
investments were made using the available balance on his credit card with 
Nationwide in January and February 2019.
Mr G realised he had been the victim of a scam when his requests for a withdrawal 
were continually side-stepped, and when he allowed access to his computer via 
Anydesk and realised Wisebanc had accessed his account. He immediately stopped 
the access and ceased trading. He asked Nationwide to reimburse his transactions.  
Nationwide declined to refund the transactions because it said the provisions of S75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 didnt apply as they were made to a trading 
platform.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They were satisfied the trader wasnt 
legitimate because the trader wasnt regulated by the FCA when it ought to have 
been, and there was a warning about the trader published by the FCA in October 
2018 and other jurisdictions. There were also reports in the public domain which 
added to a bigger picture of this being a scam. 
Nationwide hasnt responded to the view. Despite informing us the matter was in-
hand and recently telling us is would respond in a matter of days, it still hasnt done 
so. Our operational contact team let it know that any cases we had upheld would be 
referred to an ombudsman after 25 February 2022.
It has been six months since our investigator upheld the complaint and so Im satisfied 
Nationwide has had plenty of time to respond to it. The matter has now been referred to me 
for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points above, I 
have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reach by the investigator for the following reasons:
There is no dispute that Mr G authorised the transactions in question; he made the 
payment using his legitimate security credentials. Whilst Mr G didnt intend for his 
money to go to fraudsters, he is initially presumed liable for the loss. 
Nationwide is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring 
accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual 
transactions or other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some 
situations, make additional checks before processing payments, or declined them 
altogether to protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud. And as 
explained by the investigator, its considered good industry practice for firms to have 
updated watch-lists with types of scams and potential fraudsters and for those watch-
lists to be updated and communicated internally to staff within one month of an alert 
being posted by the FCA or IOSCO (International Organisation of Securities 
Commission). 
Such an alert should automatically trigger its systems and lead to payments being 
paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries, or giving a scam 
warning.
In this case, there was a warning about Wisebanc published on the FCA website on 
4 October.  There was also an alert published on IOSCO on 2 October 2018 from 
Ireland. This was over three months before Mr G made his first payment directly to 
Wisebanc. Given the timing of the alert and when the payments were made, 
Nationwide ought to have automatically blocked it. It had had time to update and 
communicate its watch-list between the publication of the warning and the payment 
being made and it should have properly questioned Mr G before processing the 
transaction. 
Had Nationwide carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr G about the 
payment, Ive no reason to doubt that he would have explained what he was doing. 
Whilst I accept Nationwide had no duty to protect him from a poor investment choice, 
or give investment advice, it could have provided information about the steps a 
customer can take to ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they are dealing 
with a legitimate person  such as checking the payee was authorised with the FCA. 
And it could have drawn on its own knowledge and information that was within the 
public domain (as referenced by the investigator) about the high risks associated with 
this type of trading and the potential for fraud and provided Mr G with a potential 
scam warning. 
There isnt any persuasive evidence that Nationwide intervened. Had it done so, Im 
satisfied Mr G would have looked further into the opportunity, about the investment 
type in general, whether the trader was regulated here or abroad and noted the 
various warnings about trading scams. Indeed, its likely that Mr G would have come 
across the FCA warning for himself. It follows, that a warning from Nationwide would 
likely have exposed the scam, and caused him to stop trading and sending further 
payments, thereby preventing the loss of £17,509.55. I say this being mindful of the 
immediate action Mr G took when he realised Wisebanc had accessed his account. 
But that isnt the end of the matter. I have also considered whether Mr G should bear 
some responsibility for the situation in which he finds himself. However, I havent 
seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that it was reasonably foreseeable to Mr G 
that he might be falling victim to a scam. I therefore dont find any compensation 
should be reduced accordingly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide 
Building Society to:
Refund £17,509.55 to Mr Gs credit card account and put it in the position it would 
have been had those payments never been made  including any interest and 
charges applicable to those. 
Add 8% interest on any repayments Mr G made towards the credit card balance in 
respect of those transactions, from the date of the payments to the date of 
settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman