DRN-2003231
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly avoided her policy and declined 
her claim for possessions stolen during a break-in.
What happened
Mrs L took out buildings and contents insurance with Fairmead through a broker in 2017 and 
it was renewed in 2018 without any changes from Mrs L.
Mrs Ls home was broken into in February 2019 and many valuable personal items were 
stolen. Fairmead sent a loss adjuster to assess the claim. Fairmead told her it was avoiding 
her policy because she had deliberately misrepresented the information she had given about 
her valuables when she took out the policy. It said she told the loss adjuster shed withheld 
the true value of the items despite holding valuations, in order to obtain a lower premium. 
Fairmead said Mrs L had specified five items on the policy and she held valuations for these 
items. The valuation of these items totalled £41,900 and the Policy Schedule showed that 
shed insured these for a total of £24,500. Fairmead also said Mrs L was aware that she had 
unspecified items valued above the policy limit for these of £2,500 per item.
Mrs L said this wasnt true that she told the loss adjuster shed undeclared her valuable 
items to save on premium. She described her very difficult personal circumstances at the 
time when the policy started but said she had complied with the conditions including 
obtaining valuations and using a safe. Mrs L said Fairmead hadnt treated her fairly. 
Fairmead said Mrs L had answered the questions it asked about the value of her specified 
items incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to avoid the policy and not deal with her claim. Fairmead refunded Mrs Ls 
premiums for the policy. Fairmead referred to a policy condition which states:
The insurer will treat Your policy as if it never existed and will not pay Your claim if You or 
Your representative has: Deliberately misrepresented any information given. 
Mrs L brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. She 
said Mrs L took out a policy that carried a maximum value of £33,000 for high-risk items but 
held valuations for the items well in excess of this amount. And she hadnt specified items 
she had valuations for above the limit. She said Mrs L was aware of the correct value but 
had misrepresented this and as Fairmead wouldnt have offered her cover had it known the 
correct values, it was fair for it to avoid the policy and repudiate Mrs Ls claim.
Mrs L doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
said she understood the Insurer saying that it wouldnt have insured her if it had known the
higher value of the items, but she thought it should pay the sum that she was insured for. 
She said the insurer had agreed to cover her to a certain sum and this is what she wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Fairmead thinks Mrs L failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she gave under valuations for her valuable items when she took the policy out. In order to 
get the policy started Mrs L was asked about her valuable items and the overall valuables 
cover she required. Fairmead says despite holding recent valuations for her items Mrs L 
deliberately misdeclared these. Fairmead says Mrs L told the loss adjuster this was in order 
to reduce her premium. Mrs L denies this. 
Ive looked at the information Mrs L gave when the policy started. The Policy Schedule sets 
out the values she gave for her valuable items and states; Please read it carefully to check 
the cover being offered and the maximum cover limits adequately meet Your requirements. If 
You need to change Your cover or the maximum claims limits are not acceptable for Your 
requirements, please call Us immediately on 03333 11 11 10 to let Us know, otherwise any 
claim may be rejected or not fully paid.  
Fairmeads policy application and policy documents made it clear to Mrs L that she needed 
to provide accurate information so Fairmead could assess the risk of insuring her. Although I 
cant be certain about whether or not Mrs L told the loss adjuster she wanted to reduce her 
premiums, I can say with some certainty that since she held recent valuations, she did not 
take reasonable care to provide accurate information to Fairmead about the value of her 
high-risk items.
Since I have reached the view that Mrs L didnt take reasonable care with the information 
she provided I have move on to decide whether her misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. I.e. did it make a difference.
This means I have considered what Fairmead would have done had they known the correct 
information. Fairmead has said that had the risk been proposed to it in its true manner, it 
would not have been able to underwrite the risk due to the sums insured which should have 
been involved, it is not a risk which was acceptable within the parameters of the scheme.
Fairmeads policy application shows the limits of the risk its prepared to accept for high-risk 
items and Mrs Ls true values were in excess of this. By misdeclaring the correct value of her 
items Mrs L prejudiced Fairmeads opportunity to accurately assess the risk and decline to 
offer cover as being outside of its underwriting guidance. This shows that Fairmead wouldnt 
have offered Mrs L cover had it known the correct values of her high-risk items.This means Im satisfied Mrs Ls misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Fairmead has 
treated the misdeclaration as deliberate because she held recent valuations for her items 
and its understanding of her conversation with the loss adjuster. I agree that Mrs Ls 
misrepresentation was deliberate because she held recent valuations but chose to record 
lower values for her items.
As Im satisfied Mrs Ls misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate, Ive looked at the 
actions Fairmead can take in accordance with CIDRA. In these circumstances the insurer 
can avoid the policy and keep the premiums and doesnt have to pay any claim as effectively 
the policy never existed. Fairmead has avoided Mrs Ls policy and repudiated her claim but 
has returned her premiums which it wasnt required to do.
In light of my review of the complaint I think Fairmead has acted in line with the remedies set 
out in CIDRA in that it was entitled to avoid Mrs Ls policy and not deal with her claim. And I 
consider that the fair and reasonable outcome of Mrs Ls complaint is that it is not upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman