DRN-1973436
The complaint
 Mrs K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined her claim for damage following an 
escape of water and accused her of fraud.
What happened
A pipe burst in Mrs Ks bathroom in 2019. Shed had a similar problem in 2015 when a tap 
had been left to overflow. The leaking pipe caused damage in the kitchen below. But AXA 
declined her claim under her home insurance policy. It said she was trying to claim for the 
same kitchen units thatd been declined by her previous insurer due to wear and tear.
Mrs K said it wasnt her intention to do anything AXA might consider fraudulent. Shes found 
it very distressing and confusing. Her sister had overseen the previous replacement work 
and she thought the units had been replaced. Mrs K said shed claimed because the units 
had been affected by the recent escape of water. 
AXA said Mrs K had reported damage to the bathroom and kitchen following a burst pipe. 
But its surveyor found the bathroom tile damage was due to movement over time. It hadnt 
been caused by an insured event. And the surveyor said the damage to the kitchen units 
was pre-existing. It hadnt been caused by the burst pipe. 
AXA felt the kitchen units were the same in both the 2015 and 2019 photographs. So Mrs K 
was claiming for damage that hadnt been caused by the recent leak - it already existed. 
AXA said Mrs K couldnt provide any evidence to show the units had been replaced following 
the earlier claim. So itd declined the claim due to a breach of the general condition relating 
to fraud. AXA said it felt Mrs K had tried to mislead it. 
Mrs K wasnt satisfied with AXAs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She understood AXAs concerns. But she wasnt 
persuaded Mrs K had been fraudulent and she didnt think it was fair for AXA to decline the 
claim in the way it had. So she felt the claim should be logged as withdrawn and the claims 
and underwriting exchange should be updated to reflect this. And our investigator felt AXA 
should pay Mrs K £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered.
AXA didnt agree. It said the photographs clearly show the same damage to the units in 2015 
and 2019. And Mrs K hadnt provided any evidence to support her comments theyd been 
replaced. The information showed on the balance of probabilities that the claim was 
fraudulent. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Declining a claim for fraud is a serious matter. It can affect how easy it is to get insurance 
and the level of premiums charged. So our service takes the view that the insurer must have 
strong evidence to show its most likely that the fraud condition on the policy was breached. 
AXA is relying on the photographs of the kitchen in 2015 and 2019. It says the decision was 
made by an experienced specialist who felt the photographs showed the units hadnt been 
replaced. So Mrs K was claiming for damage thatd happened previously  not during the 
insured event shed reported. 
AXA is also relying on the calls between Mrs K and AXA during her recent claim. It feels 
Mrs K withdrew her claim when it asked for evidence to show the kitchen units had been 
replaced and this behaviour supports its concerns. AXA also says Mrs K didnt mention the 
previous claim until pressed about it. 
Ive listened to the calls AXA has provided. During the first call Mrs K is asked about any 
claims within the last three years. The previous claim took place four years previously. So I 
dont think she deliberately withheld any information about it. Mrs K says she thinks a pipe 
has burst under the bathroom flooring. The call handler asks Mrs K what damage she can 
see. She says the kitchen ceiling is damaged and the light is hanging loose. The lino flooring 
is drenched but will probably mop up. And she says the kitchen units look very wet. 
I think its important to note Mrs K isnt a surveyor or an expert at assessing damage. Shes 
simply telling AXA what she can see in response to its question. And in a small kitchen with 
water all over the ceiling, walls and flooring, its to be expected water will have also touched 
the kitchen units as well as most other areas. 
I dont think, from listening to the call, that Mrs K is specifically stating the kitchen units have 
been damaged by the escape of water. Thats for the surveyor to determine. She is stating 
what she can see. So when AXA asked how many units have been damaged or soaked I 
dont think it was unreasonable for her to report that a number of units had been affected by 
the burst pipe.
Following the report AXA arranged for a specialist company to inspect the property. The 
surveyor felt the kitchen units showed signs of previous damage - they hadnt been 
damaged by the recent escape of water.
After inspecting the photographs of the kitchen units and speaking to Mrs K, AXA said it felt 
she was claiming for damage to the same units thatd already been assessed as damaged 
by wear and tear in the previous claim. That amounted to an attempt to mislead it about 
when the damage had occurred. So AXA declined the claim under the fraud condition of her 
home insurance policy.
But Im not sure thats whats happened here. As I said previously, Mrs K was asked how 
many units had been damaged or soaked. So she reported what she could see  water all 
over the kitchen including on the kitchen units. 
Although the surveyor felt any damage to the units had occurred previously, during a follow-
up call Mrs K responded that the units werent like that before and they were affected by 
damp. And I understand the surveyor did agree the plinths would need replacing so that 
suggests there mustve been some water damage around the units.
I appreciate AXAs concerns that the kitchen units in the photos from both periods do appear 
similar. Mrs K has explained that her sister organised the repairs following the 2015 leak. 
She was out of the country and wasnt aware exactly what had been replaced. 
But she received nearly £1000 from her previous insurer which was used towards the cost of 
refurbishing the bathroom and kitchen. Mrs K said the kitchen ceiling and flooring were 
replaced and parts of the kitchen units and pipework were also replaced.Unfortunately she isnt able to provide a receipt as it was a number of years ago and the 
work was paid for in cash. But Mrs K felt the units shouldve been covered under her AXA 
home insurance policy due to damp being present as a result of the recent leak. That was 
the damage she was claiming for.
AXA was also concerned when Mrs K withdrew her claim. It feels she did so after it asked 
about the work completed after the 2015 claim. Mrs K explained she suffers from mental 
health problems and found it too stressful to continue talking to AXA. And its clear during the 
telephone calls that Mrs K just wants to be able to get on with the repairs. 
Mrs K told AXA she has a young family and hasnt been able to use the kitchen for a couple 
of months. So she asks if the rest of the claim can continue if the kitchen units are left out of 
it. And in the end she expresses her frustration and upset and decides to withdraw the claim 
completely and let her family help her put things right.
I appreciate AXA needs to consider the initial claim for the kitchen units in light of the 
previous claim. Its important to determine if Mrs K was knowingly trying to make a claim for 
something she knew had been damaged or worn out before the insured event. But I dont 
think that was the case here.
Based on everything Ive seen Im not persuaded AXA has shown its more likely than not 
that Mrs Ks claim is fraudulent. Mrs K was asked during the first call how many units had 
been damaged or soaked. So I think it was reasonable for her to respond that a number of 
units had been covered by water after the water burst through the ceiling. 
I understand AXAs concerns with regards to the photographic evidence and Mrs Ks 
decision to withdraw her claim. But Im not persuaded that Mrs K knowingly made a claim for 
damage that hadnt occurred as a result of the burst pipe. And I dont think AXA has 
provided sufficient evidence to show that is the case.
Putting things right
Our investigator said AXA should log the claim as withdrawn and update the claims and 
underwriting exchange to reflect this. And I think thats the right outcome. Ive not seen 
sufficient evidence to persuade me that Mrs K acted fraudulently, and it wouldnt be right if 
she was penalised when seeking insurance cover elsewhere.
Mrs K has explained the pressure and upset this has placed on her. I can see our 
investigator suggested AXA pay Mrs K £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc should log Mrs Ks claim as withdrawn and 
update the claims and underwriting exchange to reflect this.
AXA Insurance UK Plc should also pay Mrs K £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman