DRN-1928653
The complaint
Ms N complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms N took out a credit card online in December 2008. She was sold the PPI in connection 
with this card at the same time.
The PPI cost Ms N 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I understand it, 
wouldve covered 10% of the monthly outstanding balance if Ms N was off work sick or lost 
her job for up to 12 months. 
Our adjudicator thought that Ms Ns complaint should be upheld because Ms N told us she 
suffered from a pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale. As the policy had 
exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions our adjudicator thought that if this had 
been drawn to Ms Ns attention then she wouldnt have taken the policy out.
Canada Square didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ns case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Although Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Ms N (so they didnt have to take 
adequate steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Ms N) they still had to provide Ms N with 
clear information about the policy so that she could make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take the policy out. In particular, this included drawing Ms Ns attention to 
the main exclusions and restrictions in the policy at the time of the sale so that she could 
consider whether or not she was affected by them.
Ms N has told us that she suffered from a medical condition at the time of the sale and had 
suffered from it since June/July 2008. I have no reason to doubt what Ms N has told us 
about her medical condition. I note that the policy wouldnt have paid out if Ms N was off 
work sick because of this condition. Given that his was a significant exclusion, I would have 
expected Canada Square to have drawn this to Ms Ns attention before she was asked to 
make a choice about whether or not to take it out. 
Canada Square say that there were no sales failings and that the terms relating to pre-
existing conditions were made clear to Ms N as part of the sales process.
Ive carefully considered what Canada Square have said and looked to the screenshots 
provided by them in relation to the online sales process. However, I cant see that at the time 
when Ms N was asked to make a selection for PPI that these exclusions or restrictions were 
drawn to her attention as they should have been. Ms N wouldve had to select yes for PPI 
before being taken to the exclusions.
I think that if Ms Ns attention had been drawn to the exclusions relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions as it should have been then she wouldnt have taken the policy out. This 
is because it wouldnt have provided good value for money in her circumstances.
So I think Ms N was mis-sold this PPI policy.
Putting things right
Canada Square should put Ms N in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Canada Square should find out how much Ms N would owe on her credit card if the 
policy hadnt been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Canada Square should then refund the difference between what Ms N owes and what 
she would have owed.
If Ms N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when Canada Square works out what Ms N would have owed each month without 
PPI  Ms N paid more than enough to clear her balance, Canada Square should also 
pay simple interest on the extra Ms N paid. And it should carry on paying interest until 
the point when Ms N wouldve owed Canada Square something on her credit card. The 
interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
C. Canada Square should tell Ms N what its done to work out A and B.
I know that Canada Square made an offer to refund some of the commission it received for 
Ms Ns PPI premiums. If this has already been paid to Ms N, Canada Square can take off 
what she got for the commission from the amount it owes her. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Ms N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ns complaint against Canada Square Operations Limited and require them to 
pay Ms N the compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Navneet SherOmbudsman