DRN-3809151
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as SEAT Financial Services (VWFS) 
was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2020, Mrs J was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. She paid an advance payment of £100 and the agreement was for £7,900 over 60 
months; with monthly repayments of £165.24. At the time the car was almost three years old.
Mrs J says that, in June 2022, the car suffered an engine fault, and that she was quoted 
£5,000 for a replacement engine. She complained to VWFS, who didnt think the problem 
with the car was present or developing when it was supplied to her. So, they didnt think they 
were responsible for the cost of the repairs.
Mrs J wasnt happy with VWFSs response, and she referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator was satisfied there was a problem with the car. But he said that Mrs J was 
able to drive the car for almost two years, and around 20,000 miles, before the fault with the 
engine occurred. Because of this, he thought it was most likely that the fault was as a result 
of age-related wear and tear. And he didnt think that VWFS were responsible.
Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator. She said she didnt think the car was sufficiently 
durable when it was supplied. And she thought this made VWFS responsible for the repair 
costs. So, she asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs J was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, VWFS 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, it implies that the fault was present when the 
car was supplied, unless VWFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after the 
first six months, it implies that its for Mrs J to show that it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs J took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.
While I havent seen any evidence of a fault with the car, its not disputed that there is a fault. 
Nor is it disputed that the fault occurred almost two years after Mrs J was supplied with the 
car. As such, the CRA implies that its for Mrs J to show the fault was either present or 
developing when the car was supplied.
While Mrs J has explained there is a fault with the engine, which means the engine will need 
replacing at the cost of around £5,000; she hasnt supplied anything i.e. an engineers report, 
which shows what the issue actually is, and what the cause was. And Ive noted that Mrs J 
hasnt supplied any information relating to the fault and its cause when requested, either by 
ourselves or by VWFS as part of their investigation into her complaint. As such, my decision 
is based on the limited evidence and information I have available to me.
The mileage of the car, either at supply or when the engine fault occurred, is unknown. 
Based on what Ive been supplied and the publicly available MOT information, Ive seen that 
the car had done 43,107 miles when it was MOTd in April 2020  around four months before 
it was supplied to Mrs J. This would mean, assuming the mileage continued to increase at 
the rate it had before April 2020, that the car had likely done around 48,500 miles when it 
was supplied to Mrs J.
The car was MOTd again in July 2021, at 54,780 miles, and serviced in August 2021 at 
55,952 miles, meaning itd done 1,172 miles in around a month. Assuming this rate of 
mileage continued, its likely the car wouldve done around 67,500 miles when the engine 
fault occurred.
Given this, Mrs J was able to do around 19,000 miles, and drive the car for almost two years, 
before the fault with the engine occurred. And I dont think this wouldve been possible if the 
fault was present or developing when the car was supplied  the fault would likely have 
become apparent sooner. As such, and without any evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied 
the fault with the engine wasnt present or developing when the car was supplied to Mrs J.
Ive also considered the durability of the car. In doing so, Ive considered if there was an 
inherent issue caused by the failure of a part or parts earlier than otherwise could be 
reasonably expected, and where that failure hasnt been influenced by any external factors. 
There are a number of external factors that could contribute towards such a failure, which 
include but are not limited to the failure of parts due to wear and tear, the lack of routine 
maintenance, driving style, the incorrect fuel being used etc.Given the lack of evidence supplied relating to the nature of the fault  what has failed within 
the engine and what caused that failure  I cant fairly say that the engine fault was a 
durability issue and not a failure caused due to other reasons. Given this, and while I 
appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs J, I wont be asking VWFS to repair or 
replace the car; or to allow Mrs J to reject it.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as SEAT Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman