DRN-2352024
The complaint
 Mr P complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance (Oodle) wasnt fit for purpose. He 
would like to reject the car 
What happened
 Mr P says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement in  November 2019 for a five-year-old car 
with 100,486 miles on the clock.
He says a month after having the car excessive black smoke came out from the exhaust .He 
says he reported this issue in January 2020 and as a result the diesel particulate filter (DPF) 
was changed at no cost to him. However, this didnt resolve the problem.
Oodle said an independent inspection didnt find any evidence of a fault present or 
developing at the point of sale for which it was responsible.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He found Mr P had shown he raised the issue within 
six months of having the car .And  had given video evidence to show the problem was still 
occurring in May/June 2020  after the DPF had been changed. He felt the first repair hadnt 
been successful and it was reasonable for Mr P to reject the car.
He recommended that Oodle:-
End the agreement ensuring Mr Ps credit file either showed the agreement as settled 
or remove the record of the agreement from the credit file
Collect the car at no cost to Mr P
Refund all payments Mr P made towards the agreement from May 2020 from when 
Mr P was unable to use the car
Pay Mr P £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr P accepted his view but Oodle didnt based on the findings of two independent reports  
(May and September). It also queried Mr Ps use of the car noting that although our 
investigator believed Mr P hadnt used the car since May 2020 the mileage showed as 
103,655 on 29 May 2020 and 105,268 on 23 September 2020.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. He accepted Mr P had 
had some use of the car but that this had been minimal due to the ongoing problems with the 
car. He noted the inspections but felt that here had been one failed attempt to repair.
.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Theres no dispute that there is a problem with Mr Ps car. The issue for me to decide is if 
its a problem that is Oodles responsibility or not .And if it is what course of action is 
reasonable
I am conscious Mr P bought a used car with over 100,000 miles on the clock so might 
reasonably expect to have more wear, tear and repair issues than for example with a new 
car. Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale.
If issues arise within the first six months, we usually say the onus is on the business to show 
if any fault was present or developing at the point of sale or not. And if there is, we usually 
say its the business responsibility to resolve any issues.
Mr P took out his Hire Purchase agreement in November 2019. I can see from copies of text 
messages he has sent us that he raised the problem of excessive black smoke coming from 
the exhaust on 4 January 2020 so well within six months.
As I understand it the DPF was replaced at no cost to Mr P. No other faults were found. 
However, its clear from video evidence Mr P has sent us and further copies of texts that the 
problem of excessive black smoke continued. And  this problem was also noted in an 
inspection report commissioned by Oodle in September 2020. So, it seems to me there was 
an ongoing issue from when Mr P got the car.
I have very carefully considered the findings of the independent report. It  found it unlikely 
the problem related to the DPF which might explain why the problem wasnt resolved when 
this was replaced.  It thought the problem might be with the injectors or fuel pressure   but 
needed further investigation as the inspector was unable to start the car to make a precise 
diagnosis.
It concluded it was unlikely this was point of sale issue as the inspector felt had this been the 
case Mr P  wouldnt have been able to drive 5,000 in the car. He felt the problem was likely 
to have been down to poor or contaminated fuel or more likely  to long term progressive 
wear on the high-pressure fuel pump/fuel injector seals rather than a manufacturing defect. It 
also noted that the car had passed its MOT at the time of purchase.
I found the comments from the independent report persuasive but I have to balance that with 
the evidence I have that the excessive black smoke occurred shortly after Mr P got the car 
and has continued .I dont believe the type of fuel he used was the problem since its clear in 
Mr Ps text messages that  he has tried more expensive fuel but still has the same problem.
I dont think the DPF replacement resolved the problem  and that is supported by the 
independent report not linking the problem to the DPF. I think its likely the problem was 
present or developing at the point of sale and wasnt correctly diagnosed when the DPF was 
changed.
I have noted the inspectors comments that if the problem was present or developing at the 
point of sale Mr P wouldnt have been able to drive approximately 5,000 miles. Thats not a 
high mileage and as the report suggests the issue is progressive wear and tear, I  think  Mr  
P has perhaps managed to keep the car going for longer than someone with considerably 
higher mileage might have done.
I think as there was one attempt to repair the car which clearly didnt address the problem it 
is reasonable to allow Mr P to reject the car.I dont agree that Mr P should have a full refund of his payments from May 2020 as its clear 
he has had some use of the car since then. We have raised this with Mr P to give him a 
chance to comment. I feel a refund of payments made from October 2020 is reasonable 
based on the independent report having been carried out in late September 2020 as this did 
identify  a problem with the car. Mr P has accepted this as reasonable. I also think its fair to 
add 8% simple interest to these repayments as that would be our usual practice.
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint .In full and final settlement Oodle Financial 
Services Limited trading as Ooodle Car Finance should :-
End the agreement ensuring Mr Ps credit file either shows the agreement as settled 
or remove the record of the agreement from Mr Ps credit file
Collect the car at no cost to Mr P
Refund the monthly  payments Mr P made towards the agreement from and including 
October 2020 with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr P £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman