DRN-1515893
 
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a personal loan.
What happened
In September 2015 Ms G took out a personal loan with Barclays. She borrowed £7,500, to 
be repaid over five years at about £188 a month. She used some of that money to repay an 
existing loan with Barclays. She says she intended to use the rest to cover her legal costs for 
her case with the employment tribunal, and to make up for her lost income after she lost her 
job. She says she told the bank this at the time, but this is in dispute. Barclays says she 
didnt tell them shed lost her job, or mention her financial difficulties, until two years later.
In July 2019 Ms G complained that the loan had been mis-sold, and that Barclays had taken 
advantage of her loss of employment. She added that Barclays had recently sent her loan to 
collections, even though it wasnt in arrears. She insisted that she had told Barclays about 
her situation, and accused the bank of lying. (She also complained about Barclaycard 
increasing the credit limits on her credit card in 2015 and 2016. That matter is now being 
treated as a separate complaint, but I have still taken into account what the parties have said 
about it.)
Barclays said that its records showed that the purpose of the loan had been described as 
purchasing a property, and that Ms G was still in full time employment. It said that she would 
have been asked if there had been any changes to her income or employment, or if she was 
expecting any changes in the future, as a routine and unavoidable step in the loan 
application process, so she must not have declared the loss or expected loss of her job 
during the application. It said that on the information it had had about her in 2015, the loan 
repayments had been clearly affordable. It had sent her loan to collections because shed 
missed her payment in June 2019, and since she was in a repayment plan, that plan had 
failed. It had explained this in a letter it had sent to her at the time.
Ms G argued that the banks denials were implausible, since she had used her current 
account to pay her lawyers, and her Barclaycard to pay the tribunal fees, so the banks must 
have known about her tribunal case all along. When Barclays did not uphold her complaint, 
she brought this complaint to our Service. (Initially this complaint and her complaint about 
Barclaycard were dealt with together, with Barclays representing Barclaycard.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He didnt think that Barclays had deliberately 
recorded the wrong reason for the loan, although he accepted that this might have happened 
by mistake. But he didnt think that affected the outcome of this complaint. He thought there 
had been no reason for Barclays to think that Ms G could not afford the loan, and nothing to 
indicate that she was or would be in financial difficulty. Once Barclays became aware of her 
difficulties, it tried to help her. (He didnt uphold the Barclaycard complaint either.) Ms G 
asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have dealt with both complaints, and although I have issued separate decisions, I have 
taken into account everything the parties have told me about the loan and the credit card.
I have seen no evidence (other than Ms Gs recollection) to suggest that the member of 
Barclays staff who handled the loan application deliberately and dishonestly recorded the 
wrong reason for the loan and failed to update the banks records with the information that 
Ms G was about to lose her job. I also dont think that happened by mistake, because Ive 
seen the procedure that has to be followed when dealing with a loan application (which was 
shared with our Service in confidence), and these steps  that is, asking the customer to 
confirm their current income and employment status, and asking whether anything has 
changed or is likely to change  are mandatory and cant be skipped by mistake. The 
customers answers have to be entered, or the application cannot proceed further. So on the 
balance of probabilities, I think its more likely that the staff member recorded what they were 
told. I am reinforced in reaching that conclusion by the fact that there is no record in the 
contact notes of Ms G mentioning financial difficulties until September 2017, and also that 
she requested each of the four credit limit increases on her Barclaycard herself  they 
werent automatic.
Since the loan was issued nearly five years ago, I dont think it would be a reasonable line of 
enquiry to ask the banks employee who dealt with the application for their recollection of it. 
Its not something I would expect them to remember now. (I would have reached the same 
view when Ms G came to us last July, when it was four years after the loan.)
On the information provided to Barclays, the loan would have appeared to be affordable. 
Barclays proceeded on the basis that Ms G was in full time employment and earning 
£37,000 a year. After deducting her expenditure, her disposable income was much more 
than £188 a month. So I dont agree that the loan was mis-sold.
When in late 2017 Ms G struggled to make her repayments, Barclays responded by 
postponing three repayments to the end of her loan (extending the loan by three months). 
I think that was a reasonable solution.
I have seen the banks letter to Ms G, dated 2 July 2019, explaining why her loan account 
was sent to collections. I think it is clear and does not require further elaboration.
(I was pleased to see that Ms G won her employment tribunal case in 2018 and was 
awarded a four-figure sum. That will have helped with her finances.)
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman