DRN-4515497
The complaint
Mr S complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of his car insurance 
claim.
All references to Admiral also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Im aware Admiral have provided several final responses regarding this claim. Id like to 
clarify that my intended decision focusses on all three of Admirals final response letters 
provided in April and May 2023.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2023. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
Delays
From reviewing Admirals claim notes, I can see initially there were issues with
finding a repairer due to the nature of the damage. And Im pleased to see Admiral
arranged for an external assessor to inspect Mr Ss vehicle when it was unable to
find a repairer within its own network. While this took some time, Im satisfied Admiral
acted a fast as it could here, taking the first available appointment.
However, when the inspection was initially due to take place, the vehicle wasnt
loaded onto a ramp. The claim notes said the assessor left because of this and the
inspection didnt go ahead.
I can see from the claim notes there was confusion about the garage being instructed
and paid for the vehicle to be on a ramp. So, this had to be rescheduled. I think this
was avoidable.
However, I can also see that when the assessor returned to inspect the vehicle in
May 2023, it again wasnt loaded onto a ramp.
Admiral acknowledges it has caused avoidable delays and there have been issues
with communication. And across its final responses it has offered Mr S a total of £350
compensation in recognition of this.
I feel this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience Admirals actions have caused.
So, I do not intend to recommend further compensation is paid for these reasons.
Hire Vehicle Costs
Following the second inspection Admiral decided to settle the claim, with the vehicle
deemed as a total loss. The claim notes say this is due to the delays in the claim
progressing and that it could not be fully confirmed if the vehicle was damaged as it
hadnt been viewed on a ramp.
The policy does say a courtesy vehicle is not provided until repairs have been
authorised and one will not be provided where a vehicle is declared as being beyond
repair.
I appreciate the policy terms dont strictly entitle Mr S to a courtesy vehicle. But
Admiral has made the decision to deem the vehicle as a total loss  and it has done
so due to avoidable delays it acknowledges it has caused. And as Admiral has been
unable to fully confirm if the vehicle was damaged, and to what extent, it hasnt been
established that the vehicle wouldnt have needed repairs or been able to be
repaired.
Mr S has had to hire a vehicle to use for work in this time. And I think delays caused
by Admiral in inspecting the vehicle have caused Mr S to incur further hire costs. So,
I think its fair Admiral reimburse Mr S for these, from the date the original inspection
was due to take place in April 2023, to the date the vehicle was deemed a total loss.
If Admiral requires it, it may ask Mr S for sufficient proof of these costs such as
receipts.
Admiral said it has already made some loss of use payments to Mr S. Admiral are
entitled to deduct these amounts from what it pays to Mr S for the hire costs.
However, I would also like to set out here, loss of use payments are separate to any
compensation payments it made, or makes, to Mr S for inconvenience.
Putting things right
To put things right, Im intending to direct that Admiral should:
Reimburse Mr S for the costs of hiring another vehicle, from the date of the original
vehicle inspection in April 2023, to the date the vehicle was deemed a total loss.
Admiral should add 8% simple interest to this payment, from the date of the original
inspection to the date it makes payment to Mr S.
Before it makes payment to Mr S, Admiral would then be entitled to deduct any
amount it has already paid Mr S for loss of use of the vehicle.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S responded to say he accepted my provisional findings.
Admiral confirmed it had no further comments following my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all the available information. As neither party as provided any further 
comments or information. My decision and reasoning remain the same as set out in my 
provisional findings. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct that Admiral to:
Reimburse Mr S for the costs of hiring another vehicle, from the date of the original
vehicle inspection in April 2023, to the date the vehicle was deemed a total loss.
Admiral should add 8% simple interest to this payment, from the date of the original
inspection to the date it makes payment to Mr S.
Before it makes payment to Mr S, Admiral would then be entitled to deduct any
amount it has already paid Mr S for loss of use of the vehicle.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
To put things right I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman