DRN-3249110
The complaint
Mr J complains about the level of security used by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance (Barclays) to identify him is inadequate when making an 
outbound call. 
What happened
Mr J raised a complaint with Barclays in April 2021 as he was unhappy with the identification 
and verification checks they used when communicating by telephone. He wasnt satisfied 
that he was only asked for his year of birth when receiving a call from Barclays. He didnt 
think this was enough to identify him as the account holder. Because of this he said that 
Barclays were breaching General Data Protection Regulation (GPDR) and the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Js complaint and responded by explaining they have different 
levels of security depending on whether the call is inbound or outbound. And based on the 
nature of the information being discussed on the call, would also determine what level of 
security was required. Mr J remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service,
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint and explained that they didnt find that 
Barclays had breached their internal security procedures. They also explained that it wasnt 
for our service to say whether the procedures Barclays have in place are correct or whether 
they need to be amended. 
Mr J rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision as he said they didnt 
take into consideration GDPR law. So, the case has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr J says Barclays have breached GDPR and the FCA Principles. But when asked 
specifically what he believes has been breached, Mr J hasnt provided the 
information.
Businesses are required to observe the FCA Principles. But the FCA Principles arent 
prescriptive. Under our jurisdiction, we can only look to see if Barclays acted fair and 
reasonably in adhering to their own internal procedures they have for protecting their 
customers personal data.
Having considered Barclays actions, I can see that they followed the process 
correctly as set out in in their internal security procedures. So, I cant say that 
Barclays have failed to look after and protect Mr Js personal information. Or treat 
him differently to any other customer.
Therefore, I can fairly conclude that Barclays has done anything wrong or treated Mr 
unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about by Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman