DRN-3831598
The complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Portal Financial Services 
LLP (Portal) to transfer two of his existing pension plans to a new flexi access drawdown 
pension.
What happened
Mr M was a member of two defined benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes (OPS), one 
as a deferred member and one as a current member of the Civil Service Pension Scheme. 
He also held benefits in a personal pension and deferred benefits in a money purchase 
OPS.
In 2017 he spoke to Portal about drawing tax free cash (TFC) from some of the plans in 
order to pay off some debt and maintain some savings in his account to help with other 
potential future expenses - such as his daughters wedding. He planned to retire in about 
four years time when he could draw the benefits from his DB OPS. Portals 
recommendation was to transfer the two money purchase pension plans, valued at around 
£81,764, into a flexi access drawdown plan with the same provider that managed on of the 
plans  and to invest the residual amount into two new funds after the TFC had been 
withdrawn. 
In October 2021 Mr M complained, using a professional representative, that the advice hed 
been given in 2017 was unsuitable and that he wanted to be put back into the position hed 
now be in without Portals recommendation.
Portal didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it thought its information gathering exercise 
had been conducted as required and that Mr M had been pleased with the depth of its 
recommendations. And it thought its recommendation was suitable and the underlying 
investments were in line with Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR). 
Mr M wasnt happy with that response, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He thought the complaint should be upheld making the 
following points in support of his assessment:
He thought it was reasonable that, given his circumstances at the time, Mr M needed 
to access his pension benefits to obtain the TFC lump sum he required to repay 
some debts.
Evidence would suggest that Mr M couldnt have simply drawn cash from his existing 
plans without taking an income as well  which he didnt require at that time. 
He didnt think the charges that applied to the new plan would have made the 
recommendation to transfer unsuitable and he thought Portal was entitled to retain 
the fees it had agreed with Mr M and received for its advice.
But, as he considered Mr M to have a low ATR, he didnt think that the underlying 
investments that were recommended were suitable for his situation at the time  
particularly as Mr M only had around four years to his intended retirement age.
He said Portal should compare the value of Mr Ms pension with what it would be 
now had it been invested in line with his ATR. He also said Portal should pay Mr M 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M accepted the investigators view but Portal didnt respond, so the complaint was 
referred to an ombudsman and its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with outcome reached by the investigator. I think Portals 
recommended investment strategy was too high a risk for Mr Ms circumstances at the time 
 so Ill explain my reasoning.
The recommendation to transfer 
Portals suitability report set out the reasons for recommending the transfer of Mr Ms 
pensions. It said that because of this we recommend transferring your pension, so you can 
access tax-free cash to help you achieve your objectives. The reason Mr M had given was 
to repay debt, go on holiday, help with his daughters wedding and create an emergency 
fund.
So Ive looked at Mr Ms situation at the time and compared it to other factors that needed to 
be considered to decide if I think the advice to transfer was suitable. Ive looked at the 
suitability report and fact find that Portal completed and listened to the information gathering 
that was conducted over the telephone. 
There was no suggestion that Mr M was unhappy with the performance of his existing plans 
or that he regarded the funds as being inappropriate for his needs. And looking at charges 
involved, Portal charged Mr M 5.47% of his fund initially with a total ongoing yearly cost of 
around 1.83% of the fund. Portal itself accepted that these fees were higher than the existing 
charges Mr M paid and, with only four years until his suggested retirement date, I think its 
unlikely that such an investment horizon would have allowed those higher fees to be 
recouped to the extent that the new plan would have provided significantly greater returns at 
retirement. 
I havent been provided with an illustration that compared the fund values at age 60 of both 
the existing and new plans, so Im unable to confirm exactly what the effect of those higher 
charges would have been at retirement, but I think Mr M should have been provided with 
such an illustration so that he could have been in a more informed position regarding the 
likely returns he would receive. 
So, it would seem there was very little justification to recommend a transfer based on the 
main principal of whether it would have been likely to have provided Mr M with greater 
returns or lower costs.  I note that the regulators thematic review of 2008 said that advice 
was deemed as being unsuitable when the outcome of a transfer was a pension incurring 
extra product costs without good reason
But I have taken into account that, while Portal did set out the historical investment returns 
its recommended funds had provided, it didnt promote a potentially greater return as a 
reason for transferring. As Ive said above it set out the reason as being that Mr M wanted to 
access his TFC at that point to pay off some outstanding debts, fund some potential 
expenditure, and provide some money in the bank. So Ive looked at whether this was a 
justifiable reason. At the time of the advice Mr M had maximised his overdraft and wasnt in a financial position 
to reduce it. Portals fact find noted that, within the income and expenditure figures it 
detailed, it appeared that Mr M had no disposable income each month after his 
miscellaneous expenses were taken into account. He confirmed this during the fact finding 
telephone call when he said that each month he managed to break even at best. It was 
also confirmed that Mr M made a monthly repayment towards his outstanding credit card 
balance. Additionally, Mr M said he wanted to take his wife  who was in poor health, on a 
holiday and thought he might need to help to finance his daughters wedding at some point. 
Mr M also stated that he didnt want to incur any new borrowing or outgoings in order to 
meet these expenses and debts.  
And, while Mr Ms representative has said that Mr M didnt specify that he wanted to take his 
TFC to deal with these issues and that he simply gave Portal a list of things he would do with 
the money if it were available to him, having listened to the telephone conversation I think 
Mr M was keen to deal with some of those monetary needs as soon as possible. When the 
adviser first talked about the reason for the call she asked if it was about the tax free cash 
lump sum to which Mr M said, yes that right , the adviser then said, what is it youre 
looking to access the tax free cash lump for at this time? 
Mr M then set out his reasons  particularly that it would help out immensely if I could just 
clear that (overdraft) off. He later confirmed that he could absolutely not use an 
alternative option to raise the TFC funds and that it was very important to him to access the 
funds now and that it was welcome opportunity. 
So from the evidence that Ive heard, I think Mr M  having already received Portals pack 
of options that were available to him, was aware of the option to transfer his pensions to a 
drawdown plan and enable him to draw TFC. I think he also saw Portals recommendation 
as meeting his objectives at that time. In the call Mr M went on to outline his plans for 
retirement explaining that he wanted to retire at 60 and had the other OPS  which he 
thought would provide an income which would satisfy his needs. He said the pensions that 
Portal wanted to transfer didnt form part of that plan and could therefore be used for other  
more immediate needs.
So I think the question to consider here is whether Mr M was comfortable with Portals 
recommendation and that, even if it might not have been in his best interests from a purely 
financial point of view, it met his objective at the time which was to repay some outstanding 
debt he was struggling to maintain and to provide a cushion of savings for some likely 
expenses he might incur prior to his retirement. I know Mr Ms representative has said that 
the potential expenses didnt materialise and that the money was ultimately spent on home 
improvements which wouldnt have been a sufficient objective to justify the transfer in the 
first place. 
But I have to consider the information which was obtained and noted at the time, and Im 
satisfied that Mr M himself did give the reasons I set out earlier as things he wanted to 
achieve at that time with the TFC. The fact that they didnt happen is now a matter of 
hindsight and wouldnt have been known at the time. 
So, and I think its a finely balanced assessment to make, I think Mr M was likely to have 
gone ahead with the advice to transfer his pensions and withdraw the available TFC 
regardless of the other factors involved in determining whether the transfer was in his best 
interest. And I think the advice wasnt unsuitable in the specific circumstances Ive outlined 
here. But even if I determine that the transfer itself was suitable, I still need to consider the 
suitability of the underlying investments that Portal recommended. 
The suitability of the underlying investments
When Portal set out its recommendation to transfer, it completed an ATR questionnaire with 
Mr M. The outcome of the questions led to the definition of Mr M as being cautious which 
the fact find document that was completed noted he agreed with. In particular Mr M 
confirmed he had no previous experience of investments  except for his pensions. 
Portal said in its suitability report that it recommended a portfolio that includes a mix of 
equities and fixed interest securities in line with Mr Ms ATR. This led to a recommended 
investment strategy of 53.44% of the transferred money being put into a global bond fund 
and 41.56% into a world equity fund. The remaining 5% remained in cash. So Ive looked 
at how that spilt compared with Mr Ms cautious ATR. 
The bond fund  which accounted for over half of the overall portfolio, was noted to have a 
Morningstar risk rating of two where the highest level was seven. And I note it was a bond 
fund, which had an objective of providing income while preserving the original capital. So I 
think it was broadly in line with Mr Ms cautious ATR. But the other fund was primarily 
invested in shares of companies traded in developed and/or emerging markets. And may 
invest up to 20% of its net assets in emerging markets countries. It also might use futures 
and foreign currency contracts for efficient portfolio management purposes. The 
Morningstar risk rating for that fund was six out of seven.
 
So I dont think the equity fund, which accounted for over 40% of the portfolio, could be seen 
as anything other than a high risk fund. And when taken as part of the overall portfolio I dont 
it complemented the bond fund to provide an overall cautious rated portfolio  which was 
required in order to be in line with Mr Ms ATR. In my view the two funds together provided a 
balanced or medium risk type portfolio, which was a higher risk than Mr M had an appetite 
for. It should be remembered that Mr M was repaying debt with his TFC and hoping to retire 
in four years time when he would require all the income that was available to him. In those 
circumstances I dont think he had the capacity for any investment loss  and with such a 
short investment horizon I think he would have primarily favoured lower returns against risk 
to his capital. 
I think the definition of a cautious ATR  which was accepted by both Mr M and Portal, was 
an accurate description of his risk profile at that time for the residual funds that remained 
after the transfer  and with retirement less than five years away. In my view the 
recommended underlying investments didnt match Mr Ms ATR and the portfolio was too 
high a risk for his circumstances. So I think Portal needs to compensate Mr M for the 
unsuitable underlying investment strategy and Ive set out what it needs to do below.  
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable investment advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal Financial Services LLP do?To compensate Mr M fairly, Portal Financial Services LLP must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal Financial Services LLP should also add any interest set out below to the 
compensation payable.
Portal Financial Services LLP should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Portal Financial Services LLP is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension 
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr M £300 for the disruption caused to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal Financial Services LLP deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Portal 
Financial Services LLP should give Mr M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if 
Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
Drawdown plan Still exists and 
liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private Date of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsnot settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
Financial Services LLP should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Drawdown plan should be deducted from the fair value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal Financial Services LLP totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean that Mr M 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ms complaint. My decision is that Portal 
Financial Services LLP should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman