DRN-1779957
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that because of delays in processing their porting application by 
Bank of Ireland (UK) (BOI) they had to get a mortgage elsewhere and pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC). They would like the ERC refunded.
What happened
Mr J took out a mortgage with BOI in June 2017 through a firm of brokers. This was on a 
mortgage product with a fixed rate for five years. If the mortgage was redeemed within that 
period, as is usual in such circumstances, an ERC would apply. If the customer is buying 
another property, the ERC can be avoided if the mortgage product is ported to the other 
property, but this requires going through a mortgage application process for a mortgage on 
the new property.
At the beginning of October 2019, Mrs J spoke to the bank about porting and adding herself 
to the mortgage, but they hadnt yet chosen a property to buy. On 14 October Mr and Mrs J 
contacted the bank to say that they had found a property. Mrs Js name was then added to 
the mortgage and on 24 October they completed a fact find for their application. On 28 
October the bank issued Mr and Mrs J with a number of documents including a Key Facts 
Illustration, a suitability report and a pre-populated application form. The application was 
completed and returned on 31 October,
BOI received the application but hadnt sent it for underwriting when Mr J contacted it on 11 
November. He had been making efforts from the beginning on November to find out what 
was going on but got no meaningful response. On 13 November the bank instructed a 
valuation. The bank approved the application subject to receipt of financial documentation 
from Mr and Mrs J. On 15 November Mr and Mrs J cancelled the application and went 
elsewhere for their mortgage.  On 22 November BOI received full redemption funds. BOI 
accepted that there was a delay in the underwriter reviewing the application and offered 
£150 as compensation. Our investigator did not believe that BOI had done anything wrong 
and didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs J disagreed and 
asked for a review
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The problem facing Mr and Mrs J is that when they took out their mortgage originally, they 
agreed that if they redeemed the mortgage within five years, they would have to pay an 
ERC. Thats what they agreed to when they took out the mortgage product and thats what 
they paid when they did indeed redeem the mortgage within five years. 
Mr and Mrs J say that because of BOIs delay in processing the mortgage application, they 
felt that they would lose out on their purchase and so had to go elsewhere to get the 
mortgage. So, they say its unfair for BOI to retain the ERC. Ive looked carefully at this and 
can understand Mr and Mrs Js frustration during the period in early November when they 
couldnt get a response from BOI whilst the application was in BOIs system awaiting a 
decision. But, unfortunately, there are at times delays in mortgage processing as there are in 
other jobs. This delay would only be significant if BOI agreed to process the mortgage by the 
date of Mr and Mrs Js purchase and failed to do so. But the date when Mr and Mrs J are to 
purchase the property isnt mentioned when Mr and Mrs J start the application in the middle 
of October and theres no evidence of BOI being told of a deadline that it had to meet or 
agreeing to meet that deadline. 
The first time a completion date is mentioned in BOIs notes was the 11 November when Mr 
J says he hoped to move to his new property next Friday which was 15 November. Ive seen 
nothing to show that BOI agreed to make Mr and Mrs J an offer by that date and so its 
difficult to hold BOI at fault for failing to meet a deadline it hadnt agreed to meet. I also note 
that Mr and Mrs J in fact didnt complete their purchase until 22 November 2019 and it was 
possible that had Mr and Mrs J not cancelled the application on 15 November that a 
mortgage offer could have issued in time for completion. So, I cant fairly find BOI at fault 
and I dont uphold this complaint. But I agree that there was a delay in processing the 
mortgage which would have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs J and I approve the offer made 
by BOI of £150  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman