DRN-2525653
The complaint
 Mr P is unhappy with the problems hes had with a kitchen he bought using a fixed sum loan 
agreement from Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance. Hes also 
queried the price of the kitchen.
What happened
In early 2019 Mr P bought a new kitchen from a company Ill refer to as W. He took out a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi for £7,894.40 to pay for the kitchen and its 
installation. The kitchen was installed around March 2019 with the loan starting shortly after. 
From the start, Mr P wasnt happy with how the kitchen had been installed. He got in touch 
with W and the kitchen fitters assistant came back and fixed various issues. But others, 
including problems with the fridge and freezer doors, remained. In May 2019 Mr P told W 
about this. W said it had asked the fitter to come back and take a look. Mr P told us he then 
didnt hear from the fitter until the end of August 2019. 
In the meantime, at the end of July 2019, Mr P also complained to Hitachi. He said hed seen 
the Advertising Standards Agency had found an advert of Ws relating to multi-buy discounts 
to be misleading. Mr P said he was disappointed to learn that the discount hed received 
might not have been genuine. He was also unhappy with the quality of the kitchen and 
mentioned the problems with the fridge and freezer doors, together with a problem with the 
laminate flooring. 
Various email exchanges then took place between Mr P and Hitachi. By this point Mr P said 
hed lost confidence in the fitter whod originally installed the kitchen and didnt want him to 
return. Hitachi told Mr P it wasnt liable for any issues with the laminate flooring as this was 
specialist works. It also said the fitter should be allowed one attempt to resolve the issues for 
Mr P. Hitachi noted that he didnt want this to happen so, as it couldnt move his case 
forward, it was closing his complaint. 
Mr P wasnt happy with how Hitachi had dealt with this issue. He brought his complaint to 
our service. In brief, he wasnt happy that Hitachi hadnt addressed his concerns about if 
hed received a genuine discount from W. Mr P also listed the issues he still had with the 
kitchen. As well as the laminate flooring and the fridge and freezer doors, these included: 
grouting needing replacing; a drawer coming apart; and, not being able to get to the washing 
machine cleaning/drain plug. Mr P later told us there was also a problem accessing his boiler 
for it to be serviced. 
One of our investigators looked into this case. While she was doing so, Mr P told her hed 
noticed a smell coming from the washing machine and had noticed the drainpipe taking the 
water away went uphill. He said he would notify W and Hitachi of this. Our investigator spent 
several months liaising with Hitachi to get another fitter to look at Mr Ps issues. This was 
finally arranged at the end of November 2020. The new fitter fixed the outstanding issues 
early the following month. 
Our investigator then gave Mr P her view of his complaint. Briefly, she said she couldnt be 
certain if he got a genuine discount. But she thought that if Mr P hadnt been happy with the 
price of the kitchen, he could have shopped around. Our investigator said she couldnt say 
there had been a misrepresentation as the kitchen that Mr P had ordered was the one that 
was supplied. 
Our investigator also noted that although the kitchen had now been fixed, Hitachi should 
refund 10% of the installation cost to Mr P along with interest on this amount. She also said 
Hitachi should pay him £250 for the stress and anxiety hed been caused. 
Hitachi agreed with our investigators view. But Mr P didnt. In summary he wants to know 
whether the discount he received from W was genuine. He also told us a refund equivalent 
to 50% of the price of the kitchen would be a fair and reasonable compromise. As the matter 
remains unresolved its been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: given the issues Mr P has had with the kitchen, what does Hitachi 
need to do to put things right?
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
I would also point out that the events Ive summarised above arent disputed. What Mr P is 
disputing is whether the discount shown on his order form with W is genuine. Hes also 
disputing what Hitachi should do to compensate him for the issues hes had.
When reaching my decision Im required take into account relevant law. Here, this includes 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75), and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 
2015). S75 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Hitachi is jointly 
liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here.
But I would make it clear that Hitachis liability here only extends to those goods and 
services bought using its finance. It isnt liable for specialist works such as the laminate 
flooring and tiling. These were part of a separate contract between Mr P and the fitter. He 
told us he paid the fitter separately for these specialist services. Ive only looked at the 
issues that Hitachi is liable for. Ive not considered any issues relating to the specialist 
services. I would also point out this complaint is against Hitachi. Im looking at Hitachis 
actions here  that is, in respect of the way it dealt with Mr Ps S75 claim.
Ill now turn to Mr Ps point about whether the price he paid for the kitchen was 
misrepresented by W due to the discount not being genuine. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but 
I dont know if it was or wasnt a genuine discount. But Im satisfied this doesnt affect the 
outcome of his complaint. Ill explain why.For me to uphold this part of Mr Ps complaint there would need to be a statement of fact 
that wasnt true, and which resulted in him entering into the contract. As Ive just said, I dont 
know whether the discount Mr P received was or wasnt genuine. If it was genuine then 
clearly there hasnt been a misrepresentation about this here.
But even if it wasnt a genuine discount, Im not satisfied Mr P decided to buy the kitchen just 
because he thought he was getting a discount. Its clear to me that at the start of 2019 he 
was looking to get a new kitchen. W told him how much the kitchen and installation would 
cost - £8,774.40 less a deposit of £880.00. This left a balance of £7,894.40 to pay. It was 
this amount that was financed by Hitachi.
If Mr P wasnt happy with this price, he was free to look elsewhere for alternatives. But he 
didnt. So Im satisfied that, on balance, Mr P was happy to pay this price for the kitchen and 
installation. I dont think it was the discount that led Mr P to buying the kitchen. Im satisfied it 
was the actual price he was being asked to pay for the kitchen and installation that led to him 
buying it, not that it was discounted  and he got the kitchen hed ordered for the price hed 
agreed with W.
Given this, I think whether Mr P did or didnt get a genuine discount is something of a moot 
point. Mr P was told the price of the kitchen, together with the installation  excluding 
specialist services  was £8,774.40. This was the same price listed on the order form. It was 
the same price Mr P actually paid. So I dont agree that the final price was misrepresented to 
Mr P. As Ive already said, he got the kitchen he ordered for the price he agreed with W. So, 
for the reasons Ive outlined above, Im not upholding this part of his complaint.
Ill now move on to the problems Mr P had with the kitchen. Ill again state here that Im only 
looking at the things that were financed by Hitachi, not any of the specialist services 
provided by Ws fitter. The CRA 2015 implied a term into Mr Ps contract with W that the 
goods should be of satisfactory quality and fitted with reasonable care and skill.
Its not disputed that there were problems with the installation of Mr Ps kitchen. These 
included, amongst other things, problems with the fridge and freezer doors, problems with 
access to the boiler and the washing machine cleaning/drain plug and later, a smell coming 
from the washing machine. But I can see Mr P confirmed these had been fixed and the only 
matter outstanding was the question of price. So Ive thought about what Hitachi needs to do 
about this. 
On the one hand, I think its reasonable for Mr P to have expected his new kitchen to be 
fitted correctly without any problems. This didnt happen - and it was around 20 months later 
that the problems were finally fixed. But on the other hand, the kitchen was never unusable.  
I can see that Mr P was always able to use it. I accept there were problems with the fridge 
and freezer doors. But they did still shut, and these appliances did still work.
Similarly, although they were problems with access to the boiler, it was still able to be 
serviced  and the washing machine could still be used. Ive also borne in mind that while 
Mr P raised the issue of a smell coming from the washing machine, I can see this was 
resolved within a relatively short time.
But I accept Mr Ps enjoyment of the kitchen was impaired. So I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to expect him to pay the full price for the kitchen. Taking all the above into 
account, Im satisfied Hitachi should refund 10% of the installation price to Mr P  thats 
£258.40. It should also add 8% annual simple interest to this amount calculated from the 
start of the agreement to when the refund is made.Ive also thought about the distress and inconvenience Mr P has experienced. Again, Im 
only looking at the actions of Hitachi here. As above, Ive taken into account how long it took 
to get the problems fixed, but Ive remained mindful that Mr P was always able to use the 
kitchen. Its clear to me Hitachi could have done more to get W to organise a new fitter to 
resolve the problems. But I can also see Hitachi accepts this and has agreed to pay Mr P 
£250 for this. Taking all the above into account, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
for me to ask Hitachi to pay anything more than this.
I can see Mr P has referred to another decision issued by our service and feels this backs up 
his view that he should get a bigger refund from Hitachi. But I would point out that, while on 
the surface the complaints may seem quite similar, important differences wont be apparent. 
Also, each complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im 
required to do, Ive looked at the individual circumstances of Mr Ps complaint.  Having done 
so Im satisfied, as outlined above, that the remedy Ive proposed here is fair and reasonable 
in this situation.
My final decision
 My final decision is that Hitachi (UK) PLC should:
Refund 10% of the installation price  that is £258.40 - to Mr P. It should also add 8% 
yearly simple interest to this amount from the start of the agreement until the date the 
refund is made; and
pay Mr P £250 for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
If Hitachi considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman