DRN-2910377
The complaint
Mrs T complains Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund some disputed transactions which
were made to a gaming app  G. She is assisted in her complaint by an organisation called
C but for ease, I will refer to all submissions as if made by Mrs T.  
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs T complained to Barclays about a large number of transactions which
had been made on her account since 5th June 2018. The payments were all made to G and
in total amounted to just under £13000. Mrs T said she hadnt made these transactions and
neither did she have an account with G.
Barclays reimbursed this money to Mrs T whilst it investigated. It asked Mrs T for a signed
consent form regarding the transactions she was disputing. Barclays said it kept sending
these forms to Mrs T, but it never received any back.
Eventually, it re-debited her account with the full amount. This caused Mrs Ts account to be
overdrawn. As she failed to make any payments, the account was defaulted and ultimately,
closed.
Mrs T then came to this service and asked that we consider her complaint.
In summary, she told us the following:
- this was the third time she had reason to complain about disputed transactions on
her account
- on two previous occasions (November 2017 and March 2018), she had complained
to Barclays about payments made to gaming apps from her account which were not
made by her. On both occasions, Barclays had issued a refund and had replaced
her card
- she was not registered for online banking
- she lived at home with her husband and children
- no-one in the house played any online games or had made these purchases
- she had submitted the relevant documents to Barclays on three occasions
- she was struggling financially and could not settle this debt
In its submissions to us, Barclays confirmed it had never received a signed consent form
from Mrs T, so her complaint had never been fully investigated. It also confirmed Mrs Ts
account was now in default.
Our investigator thought the transactions had been authorised and so didnt think Barclays
should do anymore. But Mrs T didnt accept this, and the matter was passed to me for a
final decision.
Having considered the evidence, I arrived at a different conclusion from that of the 
investigator.  I explained to Mrs T and Barclays why that was and gave both sides the 
opportunity to respond to my provisional decision.
Barclays accepted my findings, but Mrs T did not.  She didnt think she should be liable for 
any of the money which had been paid to G.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
were the payments authorised?
The regulations which are relevant to Mrs Ts complaint are the Payment Services
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These say that if the evidence suggests its more likely than not
that Mrs T authorised these transactions, Barclays is entitled to hold her liable. The PSRs
also say that the person to whom a card has been issued must notify the firm which provided
the card if they become aware of its unauthorised use. This must be without undue delay.
The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mrs T can be treated as
acting with apparent authority when making transactions on her account.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Mrs T
needs to have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied the payment were authenticated from the information provided to us by
Barclays. In other words, Mrs Ts genuine card was used to make them.
Turning to consent, I cant say for sure who was making these payments to G  whether it
was Mrs T herself or someone in her household. But on balance, I have ruled out the
involvement of a third-party fraudster. Ive considered what the PSRs say about apparent
authority too and I am satisfied that Mrs T did authorise these payments for the following
reasons:
- there had been two previous fraud claims for similar transactions. The volume of the
transactions were quite considerable, so I think Mrs T was on notice this time around
yet, she failed to raise the current disputed transactions until the end of August 
some three months after they had started again. Whilst not registered for online 
banking, I think its likely that Mrs T was receiving her statements through the post.
- this was the third debit card which had been compromised. Having had two 
previous cards replaced, I think Mrs T  or someone with her authority  registered 
her new card so it could be used.
So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say Barclays needs to refund these
transactions on the basis that they were unauthorised.
But this doesnt end here. There are further considerations for me to apply to this case.
could Barclays have done more
Ive also considered whether Barclays could have done more to protect Mrs Ts account. The
starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that
a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and
the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, in exceptional cases, I may
ask whether the bank shouldve identified any unusual or out of character transactions that
could involve fraud or financial abuse. There is industry guidance on this in the 2017 BSI
Code of Practice on Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or
financial abuse. Barclays has signed up to the Code, and it includes persuasive evidence of
what banks can do to protect customers, especially vulnerable customers.There are two aspects of Mrs Ts complaint which I consider Barclays should have acted on
considering good industry practice.
The first is that it was on notice of disputed transaction from Mrs Ts account to gaming
companies. She had complained twice before and had received a refund. So, when the
transactions began again in June 2018, I would have expected Barclays to have intervened
and contacted Mrs T to check that all was as it should be. It didnt do this.
The second aspect which should have alerted Barclays to these payments is the value. The
previous transactions, whilst high in volume, were relatively low in value. The June 2018
transactions escalated very quickly to just under £100 per transaction  with a high number
being carried out every day. Again, Barclays did not intervene.
I cant be sure what would have happened had Mrs T been contacted and asked whether
she intended for these payments to be made. On balance, I think she would have been
alerted to them sooner and she could have prevented them from leaving her account.
So, on balance, I think in this case it is fair and reasonable to say Barclays ought to have
intervened.
contributory negligence
The next question I must consider is whether Mrs T should bear some responsibility by way
of contributory negligence. Of course, I take into account Barclays responsibilities, but I
must also consider whether Mrs T acted reasonably taking into account all the
circumstances in the case and whether her actions contributed to the loss  and I think they
did.
Mrs T has a duty to monitor her account  after all, she had previously made two complaints
about fraudulent activity. I accept she was not registered for online banking, but I have
already made a finding she would have received her paper statements so should have
known about the payments leaving her account. Ive also considered the fact that Barclays
had replaced Mrs Ts two previous cards on the account  yet these cards were still being
accessed and used.
So, when I think about apportioning negligence in this case, I think a fair and reasonable
allocation would be that Barclays hold two thirds of the responsibility for the reasons already
set out above and Mrs T to bear one third of the responsibility.
What that means is that my decision will be for Barclays to reimburse two thirds of the
amount lost on disputed transactions. I will also be asking Barclays to refund any interest
this money would have attracted had it stayed in Mrs T's account.  
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK Plc must:
- reimburse Mrs T two thirds of the disputed payments to G
- reimburse any interest this amount would have accrued had it not been spent from 
Mrs Ts account.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman