DRN-3669566
The complaint
The estate of Ms G is unhappy that National Savings and Investments (NS&I), having
allowed one of the joint attorneys for the late Ms G to open a bond account without the other
joint attorneys knowledge, didnt list the newly opened bond account so that it was visible to
the other joint attorney within their NS&I account.
What happened
Sadly, recently, the late Ms G passed away. Before her passing, two of her nieces held joint
and several power of attorney over Ms Gs affairs. One of Ms Gs nieces opened a new
NS&I bond account for Ms G using the authority of this power of attorney.
The niece who opened the bond account then told the other niece, who also held power of
attorney, that theyd opened a new bond account with NS&I. The other niece (whom Ill refer
to as Mrs T) wasnt happy that NS&I hadnt made them aware that the bond account had
been opened and that NS&I hadnt made the bond account visible to them in their account,
but instead had only made the new bond account visible to the first niece who had instructed
the opening of the account. So, Mrs T raised a complaint on behalf of the late Ms G.
NS&I looked at the complaint. They explained that their policy when a new account is
opened and there are multiple named attorneys is that only the attorney that instructed the
opening of the account  in this case, the other niece  is automatically named as an
attorney for the new account.
NS&I also explained that their policy is that the other attorney, in this case Mrs T, would
have to write to NS&I to request being also listed as an attorney on the newly opened
account. But NS&I confirmed that in this instance they had taken steps to add Mrs T as an
attorney on the new account, and that Mrs T should now be able to view the new account via
the online facility.
Mrs T wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. Sadly, during the events in question, Ms G
had died. This meant that our investigator had to begin by contacting the estate of Ms G and
requesting their consent to proceed with the complaint brought forwards by Mrs T  which
the estate duly provided.
However, upon completing their review, our investigator didnt feel that they could
reasonably state that NS&I had acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation in regard
to how this service had to consider this complaint, and because of this they confirmed that
they werent able to recommend that this complaint be upheld.
Mrs T didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 August 2022, as follows:
I initially considered all aspects of this complaint as falling outside the remit of what 
this service is permitted to consider and issued a provisional decision letter to that 
effect on 4 July 2022. However, following a request made by the estate of Ms G, Ive 
reconsidered my position, and now feel that there are aspects of this complaint the 
merits of which can be considered by this service.
Ive issued a separate letter alongside this one which details what aspects of this 
complaint Im satisfied still fall outside the remit of what this service can consider. 
This letter will therefore be focussed solely on the aspects of this complaint I feel that 
this service can consider. Ive chosen to issue this letter on a provisional decision 
basis, to give all parties the opportunity to respond to this provisional decision before 
I move to a final decision.
As explained, theres only a limited aspect of this complaint which I feel its within the 
remit of this service to consider. Specifically, how the events in question impacted the 
late Ms G while she was alive, and then the estate of Ms G following Ms Gs death.
In both scenarios, I find it difficult to conclude that NS&I have acted unfairly here, or 
that any adverse outcome has arisen.
For instance, when Ms Gs niece opened the new NS&I account on behalf of Ms G, 
she did so in her capacity as holding a power of attorney for Ms G. And while there 
were two such attorneys (with Mrs T being the other) both attorneys held joint and 
several powers. This means that Ms Gs niece was entitled, under her several power 
remit as Ms Gs attorney, to open the new NS&I account without the knowledge of 
Mrs T as the other attorney.
As such I dont feel that it can be said that Ms G was adversely impacted here. One 
of her attorneys opened an account on her behalf, as they were entitled to do within 
the remit of their joint and several powers. The new account was for the benefit of Ms 
G, and this wasnt affected by Mrs T not being aware of the new account being 
opened at the point of opening.
I find it similarly difficulty to conclude that Ms G was adversely affected by the new 
account not being immediately made visible to Mrs T on her online portal. Again, this 
is because the account remained for the benefit of Ms G, regardless of whether one 
or both of the joint and several attorneys had online visibility of it.
Finally, following the death of Ms G, I also dont feel that the estate of Ms G has 
incurred any adverse outcome here for the same reasons that Ive already explained. 
Specifically, the account remained part of the estate irrespective of whether Mrs T as 
the second attorney had online visibility of the account or not.
All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that NS&I have acted unfairly 
here in regard to Ms G or the estate as Mrs T contends, and it follows from this that 
my provisional decision is that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NS&I 
to take any further action.
In response to my provisional decision letter, Mrs T raised several objections. These 
included that she wasnt happy with the service shed received from NS&I, and a strong 
reiteration by Mrs T that she feels that she hasnt been treated fairly. However, as I explained in previous letters including my provisional decision letter quoted above, this 
service cant consider any aspect of this complaint from Mrs Ts perspective personally, but 
only those aspects of the complaint that relate directly to the late Mrs G or to the estate, 
following Mrs Gs death. I would refer Mrs T to those prior letters for a more detailed 
explanation of why this is the case.
Mrs T has also stated that she feels that by not having sight of the newly opened bond 
account herself, she could have taken a financial decision as an attorney for Mrs G to the 
detriment of Mrs G. I can appreciate Mrs Ts point here. But she didnt take such a 
detrimental financial decision, and so there was no adverse consequence for Mrs G or for 
the estate of Mrs G that needs correcting. 
Ultimately, having considered the objections that Mrs T has raised in response to my 
provisional decision, Im not minded to change my position on this complaint as outlined in 
my provisional decision above, and I remain satisfied that no detriment was incurred by the 
late Mrs G or by her estate following her unfortunate death as a result of NS&Is actions.
Accordingly, I see no reason not to issue a final decision on the same basis as outlined in 
my provisional decision, and I can therefore confirm that my final decision will be that I am 
not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms G 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman