DRN-2244813
The complaint
Mr B complains National Westminster Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1996 with a mortgage. 
The policy provided Mr B with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think National Westminster recommended the policy to 
Mr B, so the key question I need to consider is:
- Did National Westminster give Mr B information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading in order to put him in a position where he could make an informed choice 
about the insurance he was buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr B is worse off as a 
result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  
if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
I can see that Mr B has put time and effort into his complaint, and that he has strong feelings 
about the way in which the policy was sold. Ive noted everything Mr B has said.
Mr B says he was told buying the PPI would improve his chances of getting the mortgage he 
wanted. So he doesnt consider National Westminster gave him a proper choice about 
buying the cover.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr B and National 
Westminster when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over 
twenty years ago. Without anything else to support what Mr B has told me, I havent been 
able to safely conclude that National Westminster didnt make him aware the PPI was 
optional.
The policy cost was set out in Mr Bs mortgage offer. So I think he wouldve known how 
much he would be paying for the policy, and found it acceptable. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think its unlikely Mr B would have made 
a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Mr B satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. And his 
circumstances do not suggest he would have been caught by any of the conditions limiting 
the policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-
existing medical conditions). 
In summary, I think Mr B agreed to take out the cover, knowing he didnt have to. And given 
it provided broadly what I think he expected when he agreed to it, I dont think he would have 
made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if he had been better informed.
The mortgage in question ended in 1998, and a new one was arranged shortly afterwards. 
Mr Bs wife was added to the new mortgage and it was held in joint names. The original PPI 
policy continued, and Mr Bs wife was also covered. I understand National Westminster 
upheld her complaint about the PPI, and refunded of her share of the premiums. 
But even though Mr Bs wife has received a refund, I remain of the view that the policy 
wasnt mis-sold to Mr B when he took it out in 1996. So Im not persuaded that his wifes 
refund means National Westminster should also pay compensation to Mr B.
Mr B has also mentioned that the policy wasnt suitable for him once he became self-
employed in 2001. But our approach is to look at the circumstances at the time the PPI was 
sold. As Ive already explained, Im not persuaded that National Westminster mis-sold the 
policy in 1996. Even if Mr Bs circumstances subsequently changed, this doesnt change my 
conclusions about what happened at the point of sale.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman