DRN-3107465
The complaint
Mr M complains that Whitechurch Securities Limited didnt actively manage his investments 
under a discretionary management agreement.
What happened
In March 2001, Mr M invested £7,000 in an Adventurous Growth strategy portfolio with 
Whitechurch. By November 2020 Mr Ws portfolio was valued at £6,726. 
Mr M complained to Whitechurch saying that it had failed to deliver positive returns over the 
term of his investment despite the global stock markets having risen over the same period. 
He said as a result of Whitechurchs inaction, he has suffered a loss to his capital. And given 
Whitechurch hadnt actively managed his portfolio, he said that the fees were excessive for 
the service he has been given.
Whitechurch rejected Mr Ms complaint. It said this was a non-advised sale so it was for 
Mr M to choose the most appropriate portfolio for his needs. It said that given the portfolio 
chosen by Mr M was an adventurous investment strategy, this meant investing in high risk 
and potentially volatile investments. Whitechurch considered it had given Mr M clear risk 
warnings about the portfolio including that a fall in the underlying investments could result in 
a significant loss to his capital.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, she considered that Whitechurch had 
managed Mr Ms portfolio in line with the agreed objectives.
Mr M disagreed. He considered the fees were excessive for the service he received and 
didnt agree that Whitechurch had actively managed his portfolio. So the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M was provided with the literature about the portfolio and this set out the investment 
risks. I note the application form itself contained the following statement for Mr M to sign: I 
have read and understood all the Whitechurch Securities Limited Adventurous Growth. 
Portfolio literature and the application form. I am (we are) conversant with the risks involved 
and understand this is a high risk and potentially volatile investment and understand that a 
fall in the underlying investments could result in a significant loss of capital from my/our 
investment. So, Im satisfied Mr M was given clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the risks associated with this type of portfolio.
Mr M says the returns show that his funds werent actively managed. I understand why Mr M 
is disappointed with the returns generated by Whitechurch. His funds may have produced 
better returns when compared to market performance overall if Whitechurch had made 
different investment decisions. But however disappointed Mr M may be with Whitechurch, it 
is entitled to make its own investment decisions within the investment strategy of the 
portfolio. Mr M entered into a discretionary management agreement and therefore, devolved 
decisions about how his funds would be managed and invested.
Whilst with the benefit of hindsight Whitechurchs decisions may or may not have proved to 
be wrong, it is not for me to question these, unless I have persuasive evidence that funds 
have been managed outside the agreed remit. I have not seen evidence to persuade me this 
is the case here. Whitechurch had a discretionary investment remit; its investments appear 
to have been consistent with Mr Ms objectives. So, apart from Mr Ms unhappiness with the 
performance, it does not follow that because of this Whitechurch has been negligent or 
mismanaged his funds.
Looking at the trade report for Mr Ms account, this shows the buying and selling of stocks 
held in his portfolio from January 2001 to November 2020. And it shows that there were 
around 250 trades during this period. This would suggest, that despite what Mr M says, his 
funds were being actively managed.
In terms of the fees and charges, these were set out in the agreement under Appendix A. I 
know Mr Ms point is that he doesnt think Whitechurch are entitled to the fees due to it not 
actively managing his portfolio. But as I said, I dont think theres persuasive evidence of this 
being the case. In any event, as the fees werent contingent on the portfolio performing well, 
I dont think Whitechurch are acting unreasonably by charging what is due to it under the 
agreement with Mr M.
I know Mr M has asked about the benchmark used by Whitechurch but I cant fairly say that 
knowing this would alter my decision. All in all, I think Whitechurch has acted reasonably and 
fairly in Mr Ms case.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mr M will be 
disappointed with this outcome but Ive carefully considered all the evidence and Im 
satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable outcome for this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman