DRN-2532271
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont register him for internet banking to access his 
fathers accounts even though he holds a Power of Attorney for his father. Mr A wants Lloyds 
Bank to give him access to the accounts through internet banking.    
What happened
Mr A holds a Power of Attorney (PoA) for his father and wanted to set up internet banking to 
have access to his fathers accounts. Mr A had a number of contacts with Lloyds Bank over 
the next few months by phone and also in branch but the internet banking hadnt been set up 
so he complained to Lloyds Bank. Lloyds Bank responded and accepted there had been an 
error. They apologised and paid £75 into Mr As fathers account. Lloyds Bank said internet 
banking is restricted for all PoA holders if there is a trustee account involved. They explained 
that, as Mr As father has a trustee account, the accounts could therefore only be serviced in 
branch and in writing.   
Mr A contacted the PoA team at Lloyds Bank who explained he needed to visit a branch to 
close the trustee account. A few days after Mr As visit to a branch, the trustee account was 
closed and Mr A was given access to internet banking for his fathers account. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A and thought the £75 Lloyds Bank have paid was 
fair and reasonable. Mr A disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Lloyds Banks apology and payment of £75 is a fair way to 
resolve matters and so I dont uphold Mr As complaint in this matter. I understand Mr A will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr A including the communications Lloyds Bank 
have had with him. The key facts about this complaint arent in dispute. Lloyds Bank have 
admitted they got things wrong in dealing with Mr As request for access to internet banking. 
The only issue I have to decide is whether the steps Lloyds Bank have taken to put things 
right are fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Lloyds Bank should compensate Mr As father for the frustration and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. Mr A has told us that, although his father hasnt 
been impacted by this event financially, he was getting increasingly frustrated by the delay in 
setting up the internet banking. 
Case notes provided by Lloyds Bank show that, after presenting the PoA, Mr A had access 
to all accounts apart from the trustee account. And, that internet banking wasnt permitted. 
These notes are on Lloyds Banks system at the point Mr A makes his request for internet 
banking. And its not until around two months after Mr As original request that Lloyds Bank 
tell him about the steps he needs to take. So, I agree there has been an error here.  
To decide whether the steps taken by Lloyds Bank to put things right are reasonable, Ive 
also looked at what happened after Lloyds Bank explain the process to Mr A. Lloyds Bank 
explain to Mr A that they need a signed letter from his father to close the trustee account. 
Around two weeks later, Mr A visits a branch and the trustee account is closed. A few days 
later, Mr A is given access to internet banking. I cant say there has been any error or delay 
by Lloyds Bank during this stage of the process. 
I note Mr A is unhappy about the process at Lloyds Bank and feels this should be changed 
to avoid a repeat of the issues hes experienced. We dont have the power to tell a business 
what their internal processes should be. Its understandable and reasonable for Lloyds Bank 
to have a process in place when dealing with PoAs and trustee accounts. So, I cant say 
theyve acted unfairly in having a process or applying the process in this case.      
Taking this all into account, I think there has been an error here by Lloyds Bank in delaying 
in telling Mr A the steps he needs to take to get internet banking. And, I think the apology 
and £75 compensation paid by Lloyds Bank is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and 
reflects the frustration and inconvenience caused.    
In summary, I dont uphold Mr As complaint in this matter and agree the money paid to Mr 
As father is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman