DRN-4071538
The complaint
Mr P complains about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) removing the promotional 
balance rate on his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr P complained to Nationwide about the removing the promotional balance rate due to a 
missed Minimum Monthly Payment (MMP). He says he wasnt aware the payment hadnt 
been made. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint as they didnt think theyd made any errors. After the 
balance transfer on 28 November 2021 Nationwide requested a Direct Debit payment for the 
full amount, as this was what was set up on the account. But, on 24 January 2022, when 
requested, this Direct Debit bounced as Mr P had insufficient funds in his account. 
Nationwide then removed the promotional offer as permitted in the terms and conditions.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Nationwide had acted fairly when 
dealing with Mr Ps balance transfer rate. He thought the payment due in December couldnt 
be classed as having been made on time so the terms of the credit card agreement had 
been breached. He also thought Nationwide were able to opt to remove the promotional rate 
and hadnt breached the terms of the credit agreement when doing so.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision in this matter. Having reviewed the 
information from both parties I asked Nationwide for further information about the change of 
instructions for the Direct Debit to take the full balance as payment rather than the MMP. It 
sent a call recording from 28 June 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr P feels strongly about this but having considered all the evidence here I dont think 
Nationwide have done anything wrong, so Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why I think that.
Im satisfied that under the term and conditions for the account Mr P must make the MMP 
each month. And, under the terms of the promotional balance transfer, if the MMP isnt made 
then the promotional rate of 0% interest may be removed. Mr P doesnt dispute any of that 
and I can see hed previously set up a Direct Debit for this card a number of years ago on 23 
August 2018, so a fixed amount or the MMP if the amount was less than £25 would be 
taken.
For Mr P the issue is how that Direct Debit was executed after hed made the balance 
transfer at the promotional rates. Nationwide tried to take the Direct Debit for the full balance 
owing on the card and this failed due to insufficient funds. Mr P thinks it shouldve taken just 
the MMP - if it had the Direct Debit wouldnt have failed as there was enough money in his 
account.  I can understand Mr Ps frustration but for a number of reasons I dont think 
Nationwide did anything wrong when it tried to take the full payment. Firstly, its clear in the 
call recording Nationwide recently provided that, on 28 June 2019, Mr P changed the Direct 
Debit to take the full balance. I appreciate that was some time before this balance transfer 
took place so Mr P might not remember that this was the arrangement in place. But, the 
monthly statements Mr P received after this, stated clearly that the statement balance, less 
any interim payments, will be collected by Direct Debit on the due date.  So I think Mr P 
ought to have been aware as its the customers responsibility to check the statement to 
ensure all is in order. So, for these reasons, I dont think Nationwide have done anything 
wrong.
Although I dont think Nationwide have done anything wrong here, I think its been 
reasonable in offering to waive the interest on the account for two months after this - to 
enable Mr P to look for a new promotional balance transfer - as a goodwill gesture. Given my 
findings, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Nationwide to do anything further 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman