DRN-3620912
The complaint
Miss S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has declined to refund the loss she incurred when 
she fell victim to a property rental scam.
What happened
In 2022, Miss S was looking for a larger rental property to move to with her family. She found 
one that looked suitable advertised on a social media marketplace and she made contact to 
obtain more information.
The supposed landlord replied in a detailed email. The property listing was for a 3-bedroom, 
2-bathroom semi-detached house in northwest London. It was described as having parking 
and being fully furnished, including appliances. The rental price quoted was £1,350 inclusive 
of all utility bills, high speed internet, and council tax. A security deposit of £1,000 was also 
required.
When Miss S asked how she could view the property, she was told that the seller was 
working out of the country, but they were letting the property through a well-known property 
website, and the tenancy would be handled by an agent. The landlord told her they had over 
40 reviews.
After exchanging messages, including photo identification, Miss S was sent an email with the 
details and a link to make the payment. It seems there were problems with the email she 
received, and she had to ask for it to be resent. 
However, when it was resent and Miss S clicked the link to reserve the house, it seems her 
web browser blocked the website. She told the landlord a warning message showed saying: 
deceptive site ahead and queried: is something no good. 
The landlord simply said they werent sure what was wrong. They gave the suggestion of 
trying another device. When Miss S did, it seems to have worked as expected.
Miss S then queried the requirement to pay now. She pointed out she hadnt seen the 
property and wouldnt be moving in until the following month. The landlord didnt provide an 
explanation but replied that she had to make the payment now. 
Miss S again queried why. She reiterated shed not even seen the property yet and the 
earliest move in date was a month away. Miss S asked what guarantee there was that it was 
true. She was told that once her payment was verified an agent would contact her to arrange 
a viewing, and that she should check the payment invoice to see the details.
It appears Miss S then sent the payment, covering the deposit and the first months rent, a 
total of £2,350. She made this payment by Faster Payments transfer from her Monzo 
account to an account in the name of a limited company. Miss S believed this to be the 
agent administering the letting. 
She received a receipt by email again mimicking the website, together with contact details 
for the supposed agent and was told theyd be in contact.
But the agents details turned out to be false, and they did not make contact. The supposed 
landlord stopped responding and blocked Miss Ss messages. Around a week later, having 
reported the matter to the Police, Miss S notified Monzo, calling to report the scam on 
15 February 2022.
The next day, Monzo attempted to recover Miss Ss money, but by this point none remained 
in the receiving account, having been fully removed less than a day after shed made 
payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained it is committed to applying the principles set 
out in it. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It said Miss S made the payments without having a 
reasonable basis for believing she was paying a legitimate landlord for a genuine rental. In 
particular, Monzo didnt think the evidence Miss S had relied on was sufficient to have 
proved this.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ss complaint and thought Monzo was entitled not 
to refund her the money shed lost. He thought Monzo had fairly assessed her claim under 
the CRM Code. 
Miss S asked for the matter to be looked at afresh by an ombudsman. Her case has now 
been referred to me to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Miss S. She has lost a considerable sum through 
this scam. I can understand why she feels so strongly that her losses should be refunded to 
her. 
However, while I have sympathy for Miss S in what happened, I have to recognise that the 
principal cause of her losses here were the scammers who deceived her. I must also take 
into account that Monzo has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its 
customers give it. As a starting point, a customer is therefore assumed liable for a payment 
they have instructed to be made.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payment Miss S made falls within the scope of the CRM 
Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions 
allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully in some circumstances. 
Relevant here, those circumstances include where the customer made a payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate, 
providing a genuine service, or that the payee was the person the customer was expecting 
to pay.
Monzo says this exception applies here. It reviewed Miss Ss claim against the CRM Code, 
but it didnt think it was required to reimburse her. In deciding this complaint, I must first determine whether Monzo has established this 
exception to reimbursement can be fairly applied  in other words, that Miss S made the 
payment without having a reasonable basis for believing it was legitimate. I have carefully 
considered everything Miss S has submitted as well as the evidence submitted by the bank. 
This scam had some features that made it seem more genuine, such as the emails 
mimicking those of a genuine property website. But there were other features that I think 
should have led Miss S to have real concerns that all might not be as it seemed.
On the face of it, I dont consider the price was necessarily too good to be true. Based on my 
own research, it was low relative to comparable properties. This was particularly the case 
given the inclusion of all utility bills, and council tax within the monthly cost. While I 
understand Miss Ss argument that this did not seem too good to be true, I consider it was 
low enough that it ought to have prompted additional caution before proceeding in particular 
when considered alongside the other factors here.
In saying this, Miss S was provided with some information prior to making payment. From 
what I have seen she was provided with a spoofed email from a large legitimate property 
website which included a link to make payment. 
However, reading the messages Miss S exchanged with the scammer prior to making the 
payment, it seems to me she identified more than one red flag, or potential cause for 
concern that all wasnt right. 
Firstly, the email containing the link to the property website was blocked on her web 
browser. Miss S says this generated a warning message explaining that there was a 
deceptive site ahead. 
This was more than a case of the link failing to work or the website not functioning properly. 
Rather, her browser was attempting to protect her from proceeding to a website that was not 
what it seemed (which turned out to be a valid concern). 
Miss S expressed concern about this  asking the scammer is something no good. I think 
she was right to have these concerns, this is not something that would have been usual 
when interacting with a well-known property website such as she thought this link was taking 
her to.
Further, after she was able to work around the problem using another device (presumably 
without that same protection) Miss S repeatedly raised concerns that she was being asked 
to pay up front. She reiterated to the scammer that this simply didnt make sense to her 
given she hadnt even seen the property yet, and the earliest move-in date was a month 
away.
I think again, Miss S was right to have these concerns. What she was being asked didnt 
seem reasonable. The explanations she was given werent ones I think should have 
reassured her. She was simply told she did have to make the payment now, and then when 
she questioned again, that she could view the property after shed paid.
So, when Miss S messaged asking where her guarantee was of what was true, I think this 
reflected her valid and significant concerns about what she was being asked to do. Miss S 
was justified in having those concerns. While I recognise there were elements of the scam 
that appeared genuine, I consider these outweighed by the factors that caused Miss S 
concern. And what the landlord said in response to those concerns didnt explain why 
Miss Ss justifiable concerns werent validly held. The low cost of the rental package being offered was undoubtably very appealing, but I think 
the combination of all the factors here was sufficient that Miss S ought to have had serious 
doubts that this was indeed a legitimate landlord offering a property for rent. And I think the 
evidence to the contrary was relatively limited. 
In terms of the CRM Code, where a customer made a payment without having a reasonable 
basis for believing they were paying for legitimate service from a legitimate merchant, or that 
they were paying the person they believed they were, then their bank does not need to 
refund them for their loss even when this was the result of a scam. I think Monzo is entitled 
to rely on that here  I think it has done enough to establish that Miss S didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing this was legitimate.
Based on what Monzo could reasonably have known at the time, this payment wasnt one 
which would have particularly stood out as being at risk of being connected to a fraud or 
scam. With this in mind I dont think Monzo needed to give an Effective Warning under the 
terms of the CRM Code, so I cannot fairly find it at fault for not doing so. And I dont think 
Monzo needed to take specific steps at the time, such as intervening directly before it would 
release Miss Ss payment. 
When Monzo was made aware of what had happened it acted appropriately and tried to 
recover the funds, although none remained. While I consider it should have acted more 
promptly in that attempt to recover the funds, any delay wasnt material here  the funds had 
long since been removed from the receiving account.
All considered, I dont find Monzo is to blame for Miss Ss losses. I dont find it is liable to 
refund Miss S under the terms of the CRM Code. 
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Miss S 
and I am sorry she has lost out here. She was the victim of a scam designed to defraud her 
of her money. I appreciate that shes lost a significant amount because of what the actions of 
the criminal scammers responsible. But I can only look at what Monzo was and is required to 
do. And I dont find Monzo is required to refund her under the CRM Code, nor that the bank 
was at fault in making the payment Miss S had instructed it to make or for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman