DRN-4249690
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc set up a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) on a sole 
trader basis rather than on a limited company basis. 
What happened
Mr O applied for a BBL in the name of his limited company. Mr Os BBL application was 
successful, and he received the BBL funds shortly afterwards. However, Mr O was later told 
by HSBC that his BBL application had been processed on a sole trader basis and not on a 
limited company basis. Mr O wasnt happy about this, or with the service hed received from 
HSBC surrounding this matter, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC apologised to Mr O for the poor service hed received, which included that Mr O 
hadnt received a call back from HSBC to discuss his BBL, and HSBC made a payment of 
£100 to Mr O as compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred as a result. 
However, HSBC confirmed that Mr O had applied for the BBL using his HSBC sole trader 
business account and that as such they werent able to transfer the BBL to a limited 
company basis as he would like. Mr O wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred 
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their review, HSBC offered a further 
£100 compensation to Mr O for being initially incorrectly told that he could transfer the BBL 
to a limited company basis. Our investigator felt this further offer of compensation from 
HSBC was fair, and they didnt feel that HSBC should be instructed to transfer the BBL to a 
limited company basis as Mr O would like. Mr O remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that HSBC have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mr O has explained that he applied for the BBL in the name of his limited company. Mr O 
has also explained that the statements he receives for his HSBC business current account 
(BCA) are in the name of his limited company and that as such theres nothing which 
indicated to him that his BCA  and hence his relationship with HSBC  wasnt on a limited 
company basis.
Ive received copies of the statements for Mr Os BCA from both Mr O and HSBC. And both 
sets of statements confirm that the account name is not in Mr Os limited company name as 
Mr O suggests, but instead is in clearly the name of Mr O himself. 
And while the statements are addressed to a company name, theres no reference to the 
word limited anywhere in this addressee company name. Additionally, the addressees 
name is simply the recipient of the statements to which they are posted, and it can be the 
case that statements for a persons account can be posted to a company  which is what 
has been happening here. As such, I dont agree that it was reasonable for Mr O to assume 
from the BCA statements that the BCA was in the name of his limited company.
Furthermore, while the BBL application does show that Mr O named his limited company as 
the BBL applicant, it also shows that Mr O provided the details for his HSBC sole trader 
BCA, and that the name on that BCA was given in the BBL application as being Mr Os own 
name and not the name of his limited company. 
Mr O didnt have a HSBC business account in the name of his limited company at the time 
he applied for the BBL. And, because it was a requirement of HSBC that a successful BBL 
applicant must have an existing business relationship with them, it could never have been 
the case that Mr O could have successfully applied for a BBL in the name of his limited 
company  because his limited company didnt have an existing business relationship with 
HSBC. Only Mr O as a sole trader had such an existing relationship.
Importantly, Mr Os BBL agreement  which HSBC sent to him to review and sign in 
acceptance of it  contains no reference to Mr Os limited company, and instead refers only 
to Mr O. And so, I feel it should reasonably have been apparent to Mr O upon review of the 
documents he was sent that the BBL he ultimately agreed to wasnt being provided by HSBC 
to his limited company but was instead being provided to him on a sole trader basis. 
Mr O may argue that he specifically applied for the BBL in the name of his limited company, 
regardless of the sole trader basis of his existing relationship with HSBC, and that as such 
HSBC should have called him and questioned this discrepancy with him before issuing the 
BBL agreement to him in the manner that they did.
But it must be remembered that the BBL scheme was a reaction to the emergence of the 
Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. And because of the unique and unprecedented circumstances 
surrounding the formation of the BBL scheme, lenders such as HSBC werent expected to 
conduct thorough checks on applicants at the point of application. Instead, the onus was on 
the applicant to understand the nature of the BBL scheme and to self-attest their eligibility for 
it. And lenders such as HSBC were expected to process received applications and provide 
the loan funds to successful applicants as quickly as possible.
Accordingly, I dont feel the onus was on HSBC to have queried the discrepancy between 
the limited company name given as the applicant and the sole trader basis of their existing 
relationship with Mr O. Instead, I feel that the onus was on Mr O to have understood the 
nature of his existing business relationship with HSBC and to have recognised that the BBL 
agreement hed been provided wasnt on a limited company basis and to have contacted 
HSBC to question them about this if he wasnt happy to accept the BBL as a sole trader. 
Consequently, Im satisfied that by signing the BBL agreement and accepting the BBL funds 
into his sole trader BCA, that Mr O did accept the BBL from HSBC on a sole trader basis  
regardless as to whether this was a mistake on Mr Os part or not. And so, I wont be 
upholding this aspect of Mr Os complaint.However, its clear that Mr O hasnt received the best service from HSBC surrounding this 
matter. This includes that Mr O didnt receive a call back from HSBC to discuss his BBL as 
hed requested. HSBC have apologised for this and made a payment of £100 to Mr O as 
compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred as a result. Additionally, after 
Mr O referred his complaint to this service, HSBC have offered an additional £100 
compensation to Mr O for the frustration and inconvenience that HSBC caused by incorrectly 
indicating that he could transfer the BBL into the name of his limited company. 
HSBC have explained that theyre unwilling to allow Mr O to transfer the BBL to a limited 
company basis because they dont feel they made any error which would warrant the 
allowance of such a transfer. This seems reasonable to me, and Im in agreement with 
HSBCs position that Mr O himself  and not HSBC  should ultimately be considered 
accountable for Mr O accepting the BBL on a sole trader basis as he did.
Finally, while I accept that matters of compensation can be subjective, I feel the payment of 
£100 and offer of a further £100 compensation by HSBC does constitute fair compensation 
for whats happened here, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I may have 
instructed HSBC to have paid, had they not already done or offered to do so.
In taking this position Ive considered the impact these events have had on Mr O, but also 
that, while HSBC made a mistake in telling Mr O that he could change the BBL to a limited 
company basis, such a transfer was never fairly warranted. And Ive also considered the 
general framework which this service uses when considered compensation awards for 
trouble and upset  further details of which can be found on this services website. 
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Os favour, Ill only be 
doing so to compel HSBC to pay the further £100 compensation to Mr O that theyve already 
offered to pay. And I wont be instructing HSBC to take any further action beyond this. I 
realise this wont be the outcome Mr O was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
Putting things right
HSBC must pay £100 to Mr O  taking the total compensation payable to £200.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman