DRN-2451205
Complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc did not reimburse the money they 
transferred to a fraudster.
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in January 2020, Mr and Mrs D were having some 
home improvements completed and were in contact with their electrician by email who had 
agreed to source and set up some new televisions for them.
After agreeing the specifications, Mr and Mrs D asked for confirmation of the total balance 
due. Their electrician responded confirming the balance, his account details and asking how 
they would like him to make out the invoice. However this response was intercepted by a 
fraudster and the account details were changed to the fraudsters own. Mr and Mrs D have 
said theyve made payments to their genuine electrician before, but from their business 
account - and that the payments were handled by their accounts team  so they werent 
aware that the payment details provided differed to the ones theyd used in the past.
Mr and Mrs D have said they didnt identify anything untoward when they received the 
fraudsters email  they said the fraudster used an email address almost identical to the 
genuine electricians, but with one letter removed, which Mr and Mrs D have said they didnt 
notice until after the scam was revealed. Mr and Mrs D have also said the fraudsters email 
formed part of the same chain of emails through which theyd been corresponding with their 
genuine electrician. Unaware that their electricians email had been intercepted, Mr D made 
a payment to the fraudster of £10,000 (which was the daily limit on his account). He emailed 
the fraudster confirming the payment had been made and that he would pay the outstanding 
balance the following day. 
The following day the fraudster confirmed receipt of the payment and Mr D sent over the 
remaining balance due of £381.52.
Mr and Mrs D heard nothing further until the next day when their genuine electrician 
contacted them to advise he hadnt received any payment. Their electrician sent a 
screenshot of his original email to Mr and Mrs D, showing his genuine account details. 
Realising they had been the victim of a scam, Mr and Mrs D contacted HSBC that same day 
 17 January 2020.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case.
HSBC has said Mr and Mrs D made the payments without having a reasonable basis for 
believing they were genuine payments. HSBC considers that Mr and Mrs D ought to have 
verified the change of beneficiary account details and email address and questioned why an 
invoice was being sent when they hadnt been sent one previously.
However, HSBC did recognise it hadnt met the standards it was required to under the CRM 
Code. It said it could have provided a more effective warning to Mr and Mrs D that the 
payments they were making could be part of a scam. HSBC therefore refunded 50% of their 
loss, as per the provisions of the CRM Code. 
Mr and Mrs D feel they should be refunded in full and so they referred their complaint to us.
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and thought that they did have a 
reasonable basis for believing these were legitimate payments. The investigator issued his 
view in September 2020, recommending HSBC refunds the outstanding 50% of                  
Mr and Mrs Ds losses, plus interest. HSBC hasnt confirmed whether it accepts or rejects 
the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money            
Mr and Mrs D lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Mr and Mrs D have received a refund of 50% of their loss already. In the 
circumstances, HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the remaining 50%         
Mr and Mrs D lost.
The money was taken from Mr and Mrs Ds current account. It is not clear how        
Mr and Mrs D would have used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should 
have done, so HSBC should also pay 8% simple interest per year on the money it 
should have refunded, from the date HSBC decided not to refund Mr and Mrs D 
under the CRM Code to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about the whether Mr and Mrs D had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to 
reach a different view. In particular I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs D failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the 
CRM Code.
Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mr and Mrs D lacked a reasonable basis for 
believing the transactions to be genuine because:
Mr and Mrs D have sent us the email chain which covers the email correspondence 
before, during and after the scam. Im persuaded the fraudster used an email 
address almost identical to the one used by Mr and Mrs Ds genuine electrician  
from what I can see the difference was just one digit, so I think its understandable 
that Mr and Mrs D didnt notice this discrepancy. Due to the formatting of the email 
chain provided, I cant see the email address used on the initial email from the 
fraudster - and due to the time thats passed, Mr and Mrs D havent been able to 
since locate the chain of emails - but I can see the email address used in subsequent 
emails from the fraudster.  I think its more likely than not the initial email address the 
fraudster used was the same as the email address used by the fraudster thereafter. 
The formatting of the email conversation provided isnt entirely clear, and Ive 
considered that there could be a number of reasons for this  including the 
interception process the scammer used. But overall considering the evidence available, I think its more likely than not that the scammers emails also formed part 
of the same email chain as the genuine emails from Mr and Mrs Ds electrician. I 
therefore think its reasonable that Mr and Mrs D believed the emails they were 
receiving were from their genuine electrician.
HSBC has suggested Mr and Mrs D ought to have queried why their electrician 
asked how to make out their invoice as he hadnt in the past. Having seen the 
genuine email their electrician intended to send, it was worded exactly the same as 
the email Mr and Mrs D received from the fraudster  including the same invoice 
query  the only difference was the amended account details. As Mr and Mrs Ds 
genuine electrician was asking this same question, I think this demonstrates it wasnt 
a suspicious thing to ask and shouldnt reasonably have caused concern for Mr and 
Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D have explained their electrician usually provides services for 
their business and would invoice the business, whereas this was the first time the 
payment was for personal services that Mr and Mrs D were paying for directly. I 
therefore dont think its unreasonable that the electrician would query how to make 
out the invoice, or for Mr and Mrs D to not have questioned such a request.  
HSBC also said that Mr and Mrs D have paid their genuine electrician before and 
shouldve queried the change in account details. While Mr and Mrs D have used this 
electricians services before, theyve said this was always through their business 
account and have said that any payments would be made by their accounts 
department, rather than them directly. Having reviewed the statements provided by 
HSBC for Mr and Mrs Ds current account, I cant see any payments previously made 
to the genuine electrician. Im therefore persuaded by what Mr and Mrs D have said  
and that its reasonable that they therefore didnt identify a change or any 
discrepancies in the payment details.
This payment request wasnt out of the blue  Mr and Mrs D had been expecting to 
hear from their electrician and so I think naturally would be less alive to the possibility 
that they were dealing with a fraudster, particularly in the absence of any warnings on 
these types of scams from HSBC. I therefore dont think Mr and Mrs D acted 
unreasonably by making the payment without completing any further verification 
checks.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that HSBC has shown that Mr and Mrs D lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief for making the transactions in question and HSBC should 
therefore refund the outstanding funds Mr and Mrs D lost to the fraudster.
Decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint 
against HSBC UK Bank Plc. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund Mr and Mrs D the remaining £5,190.76 they lost to the scam. If HSBC has 
recovered and returned any additional funds already to Mr and Mrs D this can be 
deducted.
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date HSBC declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim under 
the CRM Code to the date of settlementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman