DRN-2916455
The complaint
Mr L is a sole trader. He complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly recalled a Bounce Back Loan. 
  
What happened
Mr L held a business bank account with TSB. 
TSB wrote to Mr L on 31 January 2020, explaining that it had decided to close his business 
account and would do so on 31 March 2020. However, the account wasnt closed as 
planned and remained open after this date.
On 12 May, Mr L applied to TSB for a Bounce Back Loan of £20,000. TSB approved the 
application and the funds were drawn down to Mr Ls account the following day. Mr L utilised 
the funds, transferring £19,000 to his personal account  also held with TSB  and making a 
number of payments from there, including to accounts he held with another provider.
TSB wrote to Mr L on 15 May 2020 to advise that it was closing his business account 
immediately. It wrote separately to say it had decided to close the personal account he held 
with TSB too, and would do so in two months time. In the meantime, a block was applied to 
limit transactions. 
TSB subsequently terminated the Bounce Back Loan agreement. It recovered much of the 
loan funds from Mr Ls other bank account provider, but a small balance remained 
outstanding. It wrote to Mr L on 3 December 2020, explaining that the transfer of the loan 
funds to a personal account amounted to an Event of Default and so the loan was 
repayable on demand. It said that Mr L needed to repay £423.82.
Mr L doesnt think TSB treated him fairly. He managed to get another Bounce Back Loan 
elsewhere, but is unhappy at how the bank handled his accounts after approving and then 
recalling the loan. He also says that he is happy to repay any amounts owed, but that the 
bank hasnt been clear on how to arrange this.
TSB says that it hadnt closed Mr Ls business account due to an administrative oversight 
and that a gap in our procedure had allowed him to apply for a Bounce Back Loan despite 
the bank having given notice of its intention to end the banking relationship. It said the loan 
had been terminated as Mr L hadnt been eligible in the first place and as the funds had 
been used for personal use. And it said that it hadnt made an error in deciding to close Mr 
Ls accounts.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ls complaint and thought it should be upheld. While 
he didnt think TSB had done anything wrong in deciding to close Mr Ls business account, 
he thought it had made an error in allowing him to apply and draw down the Bounce Back 
Loan. He thought this had caused Mr L some avoidable distress and inconvenience, for 
which he recommended the bank pay him £200.
Mr L accepted our investigators view, but TSB didnt. While acknowledging that it should not 
have allowed Mr L to apply for the loan, the bank didnt agree to pay him any compensation. 
It said Mr L should have recognised he wasnt eligible, as he knew his account was closing 
and the banks literature was clear in explaining that it was only offering Bounce Back Loans 
to existing customers. It also cited the volume of applications it was dealing with in 
explaining the oversight that had led to Mr L obtaining the loan incorrectly.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account, TSB was entitled to close the account at 
any time by giving two months notice. Generally speaking, such decisions are a matter of 
the banks commercial discretion. And Ive not seen anything that leads me to think the 
banks decision was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances here. 
TSB wrote to Mr L on 31 January 2020 with notice that it would close the account on 31 
March 2020  so it provided sufficient notice as required under the terms and conditions.
TSB has already accepted that after making the decision to close Mr Ls account, it shouldnt 
have allowed the application for the Bounce Back Loan to proceed. So it was an error that 
the application went as far as it did, with funds being drawn down. Either Mr L should not 
have been allowed to apply at all  as the account ought to have been closed by the time the 
application was made in May 2020  or it ought to have been declined promptly, as the bank 
shouldve recognised that it was ending its relationship with Mr L.
I appreciate what TSB has said about the volume of applications it was dealing with at this 
time. And I recognise that the bank would also have been dealing with the broader impact of 
the coronavirus pandemic at the time too. But ultimately, it still made an error in approving 
Mr Ls Bounce Back Loan application when it should not have done. And I dont think the 
various demands on the banks resources at the time mean that Mr L should not be 
compensated for the consequences of an error on its part. 
Ive also considered the banks point that Mr L ought to have known he wasnt eligible for a 
Bounce Back Loan with TSB. But I dont agree. By virtue of having an open business 
account with TSB, I think Mr L might reasonably have considered himself eligible. Ultimately, 
I think it was up to TSB to deal appropriately with Mr Ls application  and it didnt. So Ive 
considered the impact that the banks mistake had on Mr L.
Once the loan was paid out in error, TSB had to take steps to recover it. The terms and 
conditions of the loan allowed for its termination in certain circumstances. As Mr L should not 
have received it in the first place, I think it was reasonable for TSB to recall it. Clearly this put 
Mr L to some inconvenience  TSB had provided the loan, so he was understandably 
confused and concerned to see it removed and had to follow up with the bank about the 
matter. And the application itself had been a waste of time and effort. So I also think that 
£200 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience that Mr L was caused by the 
TSBs error.
I note that Mr L intends to repay whatever amount is owed but has said that the bank hasnt 
been clear on how he should do this. There does appear to have been a slight delay in 
clarifying how much Mr L needed to repay  although this was largely the result of the banks legitimate actions in recalling funds from Mr Ls other account provider. It has since 
confirmed the outstanding balance in writing. And its letter of 3 December 2020 gave Mr L 
clear enough information on what is required of him, or how to contact the bank should he 
remain unsure. So I dont think TSB needs to do anything further in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr L 
compensation of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman