DRN-3686039
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (AIL) and the service 
provided following the claim she made on her boiler emergency cover insurance policy. 
What happened
On 3 November 2021, Mrs H contacted AIL to make a claim on her insurance policy after her 
boiler had broken down. AIL sent an engineer to Mrs Hs property who stated a new PCB 
would be needed. The cost of this PCB exceeded the repair limit included within Mrs Hs 
policy, so she paid an additional £43.20 for the PCB to be ordered and fitted. 
But the engineer didnt re-attend Mrs Hs property until a week later, and during this time Mrs 
H was without any heating or hot water. And shortly after the engineer fitted the new PCB, 
Mrs Hs boiler failed again. So, Mrs H appointed her own engineer, who attended and stated 
a PCB was needed, explaining the PCB in the boiler looked like an original part despite Mrs 
H being told by AIL a new one had been fitted. 
AIL arranged for the engineer to return and on this visit, they deemed the boiler beyond 
economical repair (BER). So, they completed no further visits or work. Mrs H was unhappy 
about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs H was unhappy with the length of time shed been without heating and hot water. She 
didnt think AIL had fitted a new PCB as shed paid them to do, so she wanted the £43.20 
she paid returned to her. And she wanted to be compensated for the upset shed been 
caused.
AIL responded and upheld Mrs Hs complaint in part. They didnt think they had enough to 
evidence to prove that their engineer didnt replace the PCB. So, they didnt uphold this 
aspect of the complaint. But they recognised Mrs H had been without heating and hot water 
at a time of year where this was needed and so, they offered to pay Mrs H the £250 
alternative accommodation allowance she was entitled to within the terms of the policy. Mrs 
M remained unhappy with this response as she felt she was entitled to the £250 anyway and 
so, didnt think AIL had compensated her fairly. So, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought there had been 
unreasonable delays in AIL sending an engineer to Mrs Hs property to complete the repairs. 
And although it was unclear whether the PCB had been replaced or not, they thought it was 
unclear why, if the PCB had been replaced, that the boiler had broken down again so soon 
after. Because of this, they thought that it was unreasonable for AIL to have asked Mrs H to 
pay the £43.20 for a part that didnt seem to resolve the issue. Because of this, and the 
suffering Mrs H experienced being without a functioning boiler, they thought AIL should pay 
Mrs H £150, unrelated to the £250 alternative accommodation allowance shed already been 
offered.
Mrs H accepted this recommendation. But AIL didnt respond to accept it. As AIL didnt 
respond, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I recognise AIL have already accepted there were delays in arranging the attempted repairs 
to Mrs Hs boiler. And to recognise this, theyve offered to pay Mrs H the £250 alternative 
accommodation allowance her policy provided. But Im aware Mrs H doesnt think this offer 
is a fair one. And she doesnt think it adequately recognises her issues with the actual quality 
of the repair AIL attempted. So, Ive thought about whether I agree. And in this situation, I 
do.
As AIL have accepted there have been delays, I dont intend to discuss these further. 
Instead, I will comment on the point of dispute, which centres around the repair AIL 
attempted. AIL believe their engineer fitted the PCB that Mrs H had to pay an additional 
amount for. But Mrs H doesnt think this PCB was fitted, and Ive seen evidence provided by 
another engineer appointed by Mrs H who also doesnt think the PCB they found in the boiler 
was new.
So, both parties have differing opinions on what happened. And as I wasnt present at the 
time AILs engineer attempted to repair the boiler and fit the PCB, Im unable to say for 
certain what did happen. So, I cant say for certain whether the PCB was fitted or not. But 
what I can see is that, following this attempted repair, Mrs Hs boiler broke down again 
shortly afterwards. And if the PCB was the root cause of the boiler issue, and it had been 
replaced, I dont think this is what is most likely to have happened.
So, I dont think its fair for Mrs H to have been charged an additional amount of £43.20 for 
the fitting of a PCB which either wasnt fitted at all, or wasnt the root cause of the issue and 
so, didnt repair the fault with her boiler. 
And this failure to diagnose or repair the boiler correctly left Mrs H in a situation where she 
was without a functioning boiler for longer than she shouldve been, had it been repaired or 
diagnosed correctly. And I think AIL are responsible for this delay, and the suffering Mrs H 
felt. This is alongside the suffering AIL have already accepted responsibility for regarding the 
delays Mrs H experienced waiting for the initial repair to be attempted.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, AIL have offered Mrs H £250 under their alternative 
accommodation costs to resolve the complaint. But I think Mrs H was already entitled to 
these costs as I cant see she was ever given the opportunity to utilise them when she was 
without a functioning boiler. So, I dont think this is enough to compensate Mrs H for the 
suffering and financial loss shes been caused.
Our investigator recommended AIL pay Mrs H an additional £150, to recognise this. And I 
think this recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line with what I wouldve directed had it 
not already been made.
I think the additional £150 covers the £43.20 she paid that I think shouldve been refunded, 
while also offering Mrs H an additional payment to recognise the suffering she wouldve felt and the time and effort it wouldve taken to contact AIL on numerous occasions to try and 
arrange a successful repair. So, I think AIL should pay Mrs H an additional £150, on top of 
any alternative accommodation payment that has already been offered.
I understand this may not be the outcome AIL was hoping for. But theyve been provided 
with a reasonable amount of time to provide an argument as to why they didnt agree with 
our investigators recommendation and provide any supporting evidence. We havent 
received this and so, my decision is based solely on the evidence and comments I have 
available to me at this time.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs H £150 to recognise the upset and suffering shes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman