DRN-1118352
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) declined his car 
insurance claim and voided his policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a car insurance policy in July 2019. Later that month he contacted Admiral to 
make a claim because his car had been damaged. 
Admiral told Mr B they were declining his claim. When Admiral checked with the DVLA, they 
found Mr B had an IN10 offence recorded in May 2016 which he hadnt declared when he 
took out the insurance. Admiral told Mr B they wouldnt have offered him the insurance if 
theyd known because their underwriter wouldnt cover a policyholder with that type of 
offence. 
Admiral said theyd be voiding Mr Bs policy and refunding the premiums hed paid.
They offered Mr B £100 in compensation for delays in handling his claim and the 
inconvenience that caused. 
Mr B complains that he checked the DVLA website when he took out the policy. He had two 
offences showing, a DR10 and IN10. He informed Admiral of the DR10 but didnt tell them 
about the IN10 because he thought it was spent. 
Our investigator didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong in declining Mr Bs claim and 
voiding the policy. She thought their offer of compensation for the delays was fair.
Mr B disagrees with our investigator and has asked or an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B took out the insurance during a phone call. He was asked if hed had any motoring 
offences, penalty points, convictions, driver awareness courses or disqualifications in the 
previous five years. Mr B said he hadnt.
Admiral sent the policy paperwork to Mr B. They asked him to check the details and let them 
know if anything had been recorded incorrectly.
Mr B has said that when he received the paperwork from Admiral he contacted the DVLA to 
make sure hed given the correct information. According to the DVLA, Mr B had two motoring 
offences - an IN10 from May 2016 and a DR10 from September 2016. The IN10 was 
recorded as expired. Mr B called Admiral to tell them about the DR10, but he didnt mention the IN10. Mr B has 
said he didnt tell Admiral about the IN10 because he thought it was spent. At the end of the 
call he was asked if there were there any other motoring offences. Mr B said there were no 
others, but he wanted to go through all the other policy information to check it was correct.
The points from the IN10 had expired because the offence had taken place more than three 
years before, whereas the DR10 had taken place within the previous three years. 
But, although the points were only valid for three years, an IN10 offence stays on the licence 
for four years. 
Admiral asked Mr B to tell them about any motoring offences within the previous five years. 
Thats the time period insurers generally ask about to cover all offences they will want to 
know about.
I appreciate that Mr B thought the IN10 was spent. But I think Admiral asked him a clear 
question about whether he had any offences within the previous five years. And after hed 
checked with the DVLA, Mr B could have asked Admiral about the IN10 when he called to 
tell them about his other offence. 
The underwriting criteria for the insurance Mr B was sold confirm it wouldnt cover someone 
with an IN10 offence. So, Im satisfied Admiral wouldnt have offered Mr B the insurance if 
hed told them about it. And I dont think Admiral did anything wrong in declining Mr Bs claim 
and voiding his policy. 
Mr B has said Admiral should have done their own background checks when he took out the 
policy. But they werent required to do so. Admiral asked Mr B a clear question about 
motoring offences and it was down to him to provide the correct information. 
Mr B has referred to The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act. But, as Ive explained, Mr Bs 
offence wasnt spent. It was reasonable, and in line with industry wide practice, for Admiral 
to take into account an offence that was still on Mr Bs licence.  
Admiral accepted that they didnt deal with Mr Bs claim as quickly as they should have. Ive 
looked at what happened and the impact this had on Mr B. And I agree with our investigator 
that Admirals offer of £100 in compensation was fair and reasonable.
I realise this wont be the decision Mr B was hoping for, but I wont be asking Admiral to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Matthew Young
Ombudsman