DRN-2973284
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited irresponsibly lent her a loan in August 
2018.
What happened
Mrs D took out one loan with 1Plus1 in August 2018. The loan was for £4,000 to be repaid 
over 48 monthly instalments of £166.67.
When Mrs D complained to 1Plus1, it didnt uphold her complaint, it said the loan was 
affordable for her.
Mrs D referred her complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator thought that 1Plus1 didnt do enough before it lent to Mrs D 
and had it done enough, it wouldnt have lent to her.
1Plus1 disagreed that it shouldnt have lent to Mrs D. It says its checks went far enough and 
those checks showed that Mrs D could afford the loan repayment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
1Plus1 was required to gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed 
decision on the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out 
compulsory checks, they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before 
agreeing to lend. The key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to 
take into account a number of different things, including things such as how much was being 
lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also take 
into account and react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made 
its lending decision.
From the information provided, it seems 1Plus1 searched Mrs Ds credit file and asked her 
about her income  she declared she earned £1,800 as a carer and had income of £120 
from payments. 1Plus1 had a phone call with Mrs D where it went through her income and 
living costs, it also questioned her about the entries on her credit file to establish how much 
she was paying towards credit each month. 1Plus1 also requested a link to Mrs Ds bank 
statements but it says it didnt check these as it felt it already gathered enough information 
and checking the statements would have delayed the pay out of the loan. Based on the 
outcome of all these checks, it thought it was reasonable to lend.
Ive carefully thought about what 1Plus1 has provided and what it has said. But I think that 
some of the findings of its checks raised concerns that should have prompted it to go further 
to verify some of the information Mrs D provided. It isnt enough for a lender to carry out 
checks, it needs to react appropriately to the results/findings of its checks. During the call 
with Mrs D I think there were some entries on her credit file that she couldnt explain. For 
example, the agent questioned her about a credit card that was appearing in arrears, but 
Mrs D said that has been repaid, there was also a default which Mrs D said was in dispute, 
but she was still repaying. 
Also, when the agent questioned Mrs D about her living costs, she said her husband paid 
most of the living costs, but she had several lenders she was repaying. As the purpose of 
this loan didnt include debt consolidation, 1Plus1 should have been concerned about 
increasing Mrs Ds debt burden. Mrs D declared that she was repaying around £540 monthly 
towards unsecured credit as she had a high cost loan and at least two home credit loans she 
was repaying. This represented a significant portion of her declared income.
Mrs D has provided copies of her bank statements from around that time, I know these have 
been shared with 1Plus1 and I can see that it raised the point that one of the statements 
didnt contain Mrs Ds name and address. 1Plus1 would have seen that some of the entries 
on that statement line up with some of the information Mrs D declared, the child benefit 
payment was on the statement as well her repayments to home credit provider shed told 
1plus1 about. This service has also questioned Mrs D about the bank statements, so I think 
its reasonable to conclude that the statement is more likely Mrs Ds. On that basis, 1Plus1 
would have seen that in the month before the loan was approved, Mrs D repaid around £675 
to a home credit provider, repaid £278 to another high cost credit lender, she was in a 
payment arrangement and was in her overdraft for the three month period on one of her 
statements and her balance was down to £0 a few times on her other statement.
1Plus1 would also have seen that just before this loan was approved, Mrs D borrowed 
around £450 from at least two other short-term lenders. I think it is clear from looking closely 
at Mrs Ds circumstances that she was reliant on credit and not necessarily managing her 
money well. This further loan pushed Mrs D further in debt and 1Plus 1 shouldnt have lent to 
her and it wasnt sustainable, and it adversely impacted her financial situation. 
Taking it altogether, I dont think 1Plus1 made a fair lending decision when it lent this loan to 
Mrs D. 
Putting things right
Remove all interest, fees and charges added to the loan and
Treat all payments made by Mrs D as capital repayments;
If after doing the above there are overpayments, 1Plus1 should add interest at 8% per 
year simple on the overpayments sums from the date they were paid, if they were, to 
the date of settlement;If theres still a capital balance outstanding, then 1Plus1 should agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Mrs D;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs D credit file as a result of the interest 
and charges on this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1 must give Mrs D a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman