DRN-2572675
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complained that Barbon Insurance Group Limited (Barbon) mis-sold them a 
contents insurance policy that included emergency assistance cover.
What happened
In 2016, Mr B and Mrs B contacted Barbon to amend a policy for a rental property they 
owned. The policy now provided full contents cover and included emergency assistance 
cover for no additional charge. 
In 2019, Mr B and Mrs B made a claim under the emergency assistance part of the policy 
through the company that provided that service. They were unhappy with how the claim was 
handled. So, they complained to Barbon about how the claim had been handled and that, as 
a result, the policy had been mis-sold to them.
When Barbon replied, it didnt uphold the complaint. It said that when the policy was 
changed to full contents cover, the insurance representative had confirmed the levels of 
cover available and that the full contents cover included free emergency assistance. It said 
Mrs B had agreed to buy the contents cover before she was told that the emergency cover 
was included, so it was satisfied that this hadnt affected the decision to buy the contents 
cover. It said the policy hadnt been mis-sold. Barbon also explained the complaints 
escalation process for the claim itself and offered £20 compensation for the confusion 
around providing the correct details.
Mr B and Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said that Barbon had advised that emergency assistance was included as part of the policy 
and that it had sent Mr B and Mrs B documents explaining the cover provided. She also said 
that Barbon had provided confusing information about the complaint escalation process, but 
had corrected its advice. She thought £20 compensation was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
As Mr B and Mrs B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me in the 
circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint about the policy being mis-sold was prompted by the handling of 
a claim that they were unhappy with. To be clear, Im only considering the part related to the 
sale of the policy itself. Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive listened to the phone call where Mrs B changed the policy to full contents cover. This 
focussed on what at the property, including the kitchen cupboards, were covered under the 
terms of the policy. Barbon responded to each of the questions and Mrs B then agreed to 
take out the policy and paid the premium for it. After that, as the conversation came to a 
close, the call handler explained that the policy also included free emergency assistance 
cover. Mrs B asked if she would be sent the details of that cover and the call handler ran 
through the main emergency assistance cover provided and confirmed that Mrs B would also 
receive documents explaining this.
Both Barbon and our investigator said that based on what was discussed in the sales call, 
they didnt think that the emergency assistance part of the policy was a key reason why Mrs 
B decided to buy the policy, particularly as it was only discussed after Mrs B had agreed to 
buy the contents policy and paid for it. I also havent seen evidence that persuades me this 
was a key reason why Mr B and Mrs B decided to buy the policy.
However, Ive considered Mr B and Mrs Bs further comments on this. Mr B and Mrs Bs 
dissatisfaction with the policy related to the appointment and conduct of a contractor when 
they made a claim. Mrs B didnt raise the issue of contractors as a particular concern in her 
decision-making when she bought the policy on the phone. When Mr B and Mrs B received 
the documents, this explained the appointment of a contractor and some of the details of 
how a visit would be conducted. So the documents policy provided information on this 
aspect and Im satisfied that Mr B and Mrs B had the opportunity to review the documents 
and to ask any questions. However, any dissatisfaction with the conduct of the contractor 
when he visited to deal with the claim, and whether he did what was required of him during 
the visit, wasnt about the sale of the policy and isnt something Im able to consider as part 
of this complaint.
Im also aware that Mr B and Mrs B were unhappy that Barbon provided confusing 
information about which organisation they could refer their complaints to. Barbon issued two 
final response letters related to Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. The first response provided 
referral rights to a service Barbon said could look at the complaint if Mr B and Mrs B werent 
satisfied with its response. When Barbon issued its second final response letter, it gave the 
same referral details for the claims related complaint as in its first letter, but accepted that it 
should have given referral rights to our service for the mis-sale complaint. It offered £20 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
I should be clear that we are not the regulator. That is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. So we cant fine or punish a business. We look at what happened based on the 
circumstances of an individual complaint. In this instance, I think that Barbon responded 
reasonably when it realised it had made a mistake about the referral rights and offered 
compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused.
Im aware that there were also issues with whether the other organisation could look at the 
claim related complaint. But, Im not able to consider what happened when Mr B and Mrs B 
contacted that other organisation. When Barbon provided the referral rights to that 
organisation, its responsibility ended.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Barbon to do 
anything further. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me Barbon mis-sold the policy 
and I think that when it realised it had provided incorrect referral rights that it dealt with this 
reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman