The complaint
Mr W says Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance mis-sold him a 
regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a Hire Purchase Agreement 
(HP).
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out with an HP agreement in 
2008. Mr W was sold the PPI over the telephone.
The policy covered Mr W for accident, sickness and unemployment. It cost £19.51 per 
month.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Close Brothers disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont think Close Brothers gave Mr W clear enough information about the policy, 
particularly about the PPIs cost and benefit.
Close Brothers has told us Mr W took out the PPI over the telephone.
Close Brothers says that its normal sales process at the time was for its adviser to tell Mr W 
the PPI premium over the phone. But it has shown us a script from 2011, some three years 
after the sale took place. And it has not been able to show us a script from nearer 2008 to 
show what would have been said. And theres no recording of the call. So I cant safely say 
its more likely this process wouldve been followed in Mr Ws case.
After considering everything provided by Close Brothers, Im not satisfied that I can safely 
say it gave Mr W clear enough information about the cost of the PPI.
Ive taken into account what Close Brothers has said about the sale of the PPI taking place 
after the HP was agreed. But having weighed everything up, Im not convinced, given how 
much the policy cost compared with the potential monthly benefit, that Mr W would have 
DRN-1676928thought the policy good value for money. So, I dont think he would have chosen to take out 
the policy if clearer information about the cost had been given.
Putting things right
Close Brothers should put Mr W in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. So 
Close Brothers should:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is and 8% a year .
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Close Brothers can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
I understand Close Brothers made an offer to pay back some of the cost of the policy 
because of undisclosed commission. If Close Brothers has already paid this offer to Mr W it 
can deduct it from the total compensation.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest. Close 
Brothers must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Close Brothers Limited 
trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance to pay Mr W compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman