DRN-4175702
The complaint
Mr R complains that Digital Moneybox Limited trading as Moneybox have not treated him 
fairly with the Cash Lifetime Individual Savings Account (LISA) that he holds with them.
What happened
Mr R says that Moneybox Cash LISA customers are unable to transfer to a Moneybox 
Stocks and Shares LISA, despite the fact that the majority of Cash LISA customers from 
third party providers are able to transfer their Cash LISAs to a Moneybox Stocks and Shares 
LISA, but Moneybox cant process a transfer between the different types of LISAs internally. 
He said he assumed if he opened the account it would be something he could transfer to a 
stocks and shares LISA down the line. 
Mr R says Moneybox Cash LISA customers who opened their account prior to 17 August 
2020 have been treated unfairly compared to new Moneybox Cash LISA customers because 
of the disparity in interest rates between new and existing customers. Mr R also says that 
Moneybox Cash LISA customers who are classed as vulnerable cant access their funds 
without a penalty on their Cash LISA. He says that Moneybox should be making a 
reasonable adjustment for him under the Equality Act 2010. Mr R made a complaint to 
Moneybox. 
Moneybox did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. They said they had told Mr R that they were 
developing and testing the technology to enable their customers to make internal transfers 
with them between Cash LISAs and Stocks and Shares LISAs. Moneybox said the penalty 
for withdrawing from a LISA for any other reason than buying a first home or retirement are 
conditions set by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC), not themselves and the conditions for 
withdrawing are embedded in tax law. They said the conditions of his LISA were sent to Mr 
R in the welcome pack when he first signed up for the product and are also included in their 
terms and conditions. 
Moneybox told Mr R that due to the time that he opened his Cash LISA he was not eligible 
for the new interest rate due to his ISA being powered by a third party and not Moneybox. So 
as part of their contractual obligations with the third party, they were not able to actively 
advertise to customers with a Cash LISA powered by the third party that they could switch to 
a Moneybox LISA to get a better interest rate. They said although his interest rate dropped 
to 0.6% in August 2020 when the new rates were advertised, his interest rate was variable 
as they made this clear in their terms and conditions. Mr R brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. He said the role of our service isnt to tell a 
business how to operate, as thats the role of the regulator. He said he didnt think 
Moneyboxs actions were unfair or unreasonable. Mr R asked for an Ombudsman to review 
his complaint. He made a number of points. In summary, Mr R said Moneybox haven't 
treated him fairly as they don't offer Cash LISA customers the same opportunity to transfer 
to a Stocks and Shares LISA like they do from Cash LISA customers from other providers as 
he said they have the mechanism to do this. 
Mr R says that the disparity of interest rates between new and existing customers was triple 
the rate between Moneybox Cash LISAs powered by the third party compared to 
Moneyboxs Cash LISAs. Mr R says he wasnt allowed to transfer his Moneybox Cash LISA 
powered by a third party to a Moneybox Cash LISA until August 2022, despite him holding 
the Cash LISA since 2019. Regarding the withdrawal penalty and his vulnerability, Mr R said 
he was sold the Cash LISA at a particularly stressful time in his life and he felt these issues 
were not dealt with properly by Moneybox and therefore they breached the Equality Act 
2010. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us (including what hes said about his health and personal 
circumstances). But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
It is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run their processes or procedures. 
It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who have the 
power to instruct Moneybox to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
So Im unable to ask Moneybox to allow their customers to transfer between a Moneybox 
Cash LISA and a Moneybox Stocks and Shares LISA or dictate that existing customers 
should receive the same interest rate or a comparable interest rate to new customers. 
Mr R has said that he thinks Moneybox has discriminated against him. He says he is a 
vulnerable adult and has detailed his health and employment situation around the time he 
opened the Moneybox Cash LISA powered by the third party. Based on his situation, he 
feels Moneybox should make a reasonable adjustment and allow him to be able to access 
his funds without penalty and a failure of them to do so makes him feel that Moneybox are 
discriminating against him because of this.
I need to clarify that this service is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes 
discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an informal free 
alternative to the courts, and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the 
definitions set out within the act. However, I can consider whether I think the business has 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and in order to do that I will take a number of things, 
including the Equality Act 2010, into consideration
The rules regarding the withdrawal penalty are set out by HMRC as Mr R is aware of. So 
Moneybox would need to act in line with this to ensure they are fulfilling their duties. The 
penalty is not a Moneybox penalty, it is a government penalty. Ive looked at the welcome 
pack which Moneybox referred to in their response to Mr Rs complaint to see what he was 
told about the LISA.
The welcome pack has a section titled Risk factors. Here, it states that If you need to 
withdraw the money before youre 60, and its not for the purchase of your first home (up to 
£450,000) or due to terminal illness, you will pay a 25% government penalty. This penalty 
means that you will lose your 25% government bonus AND a further amount of your own 
contributions. See the section below entitled Can I withdraw money from my Cash Lifetime 
ISA? for more details. So Im satisfied that this is clear that there would be a penalty for 
withdrawing the funds unless he was 60, purchasing his first home (up to £450,000) or had a 
terminal illness. So while I have sympathy for Mr Rs personal circumstances, Im not persuaded that Moneybox would be able to apply leniency even in light of Mr Rs personal 
situation that would allow Moneybox to break HMRC rules and pay him any funds penalty 
free. 
Mr R said he was sold the Cash LISA at a particularly stressful time in his life. But the 
welcome pack says We do not provide advice as this is an execution only service. We do 
provide information about investments, but this is provided solely to enable you to make your 
own investment decisions and should not be treated as a personal recommendation. If, after 
considering these risks, you have any doubts about the suitability of the Moneybox Cash 
Lifetime ISA or if you need advice then you should seek advice from a suitably qualified 
financial adviser. So Im satisfied that this product wasnt sold to Mr R and that he didnt 
receive advice from Moneybox about it. If he was in any doubt about the suitability of the 
Cash LISA then they said he should seek advice from a suitably qualified financial adviser. 
The welcome pack also shows the interest rate of the account. It shows it is variable and that 
the interest rate can go up or down. So Mr R ought to have reasonably been aware that the 
interest rate could fall. While Moneybox subsequently offered a higher interest rate for new 
customers, they are able to make a commercial decision to do so. Moneybox have 
confirmed to our service that it was the third party who powered the Cash LISA who set the 
interest rate and not them. Moneybox have told Mr R that they were restricted by their 
contractual obligations with the third party who powered Mr Rs Cash LISA to switch to a 
Moneybox LISA to get a better interest rate. 
Ive considered what Mr R has said about Moneybox having the mechanism in place already 
for them to transfer a Moneybox Cash LISA to a Moneybox Stocks and Shares LISA in the 
same way they would be able to transfer an external LISA to a Moneybox Stocks and 
Shares LISA. But Im not persuaded by this. I say this because while on the surface, it may 
seem a similar process, there is an established ISA transfer process in place for ISA 
transfers between different ISA managers, where transfers can be made electronically. 
There is not currently the same industry wide internal ISA transfer process. So it would be up 
to Moneybox whether they choose to facilitate an internal transfer or whether they choose 
not to offer this. 
Moneybox intends to introduce this to their customers. I can understand Mr Rs frustration at 
the time this is taking Moneybox to implement this. But I cant say they have done anything 
wrong by not introducing this by now. As Moneybox have explained, they need to test the 
technology and develop it before they can roll this out to their customers. I know Mr R feels 
that there are other reasons for the delay in this feature, but as Moneybox has explained to 
him that In addition, delays to creating this feature for customers are caused as other things 
take precedence, for example other app features or products that open. So although Mr R 
expected this feature to be available by now based on conversations he had with Moneybox 
over a year ago, Moneybox are still working on this feature being available. He would have 
been able to transfer his Cash LISA to an eligible third party stocks and shares LISA at any 
time if he wanted to do so. But it would be outside of Moneyboxs control if there was a lack 
of options available to him from other providers based on his current age. They would not be 
responsible for Mr R assuming if he opened the account it would be something he could 
transfer to a stocks and shares LISA down the line.
Ultimately Im satisfied that Moneybox have acted in line with their terms and conditions, the 
welcome pack they sent Mr R and HMRC rules. He chose to open a Moneybox Cash LISA 
powered by a third party (before it was fully powered by Moneybox themselves on 1 March 
2023) and was made aware of the withdrawal penalty and when it would apply and not 
apply. So it follows that I dont intend to ask Moneybox to do anything further.I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Moneybox accepted the provisional decision. Mr R did not accept the provisional 
decision. He made a number of points. In summary, he said he was a vulnerable adult and 
he mentioned his health situation, which he said was proven by his medical records. He said 
there was no safeguarding other than the terms of conditions in a welcome pack, he was 
locked into a service that had a huge disparity of interest rates, he was unable to change 
accounts for nearly four years, he was unable to transfer to another provider due to his age, 
he was unable to transfer his Moneybox Cash LISA to a Moneybox Stocks and Shares LISA 
even though they allow new customers to do the same thing, and he informed Moneybox of 
his condition as a vulnerable adult throughout the complaints procedure and no duty of care 
had been provided. 
Mr R said that he signed up for the account in a rush and he didnt read the welcome pack, 
as he had bigger things to think about at that time and he told us about his health and 
personal circumstances at the time. Mr R acknowledged there is a government penalty, not 
a Moneybox penalty, but he was explaining his personal circumstances and how Moneybox 
might make an exemption to the penalty, given the facts he provided. He said he is aware of 
the rules and is aware of the procedures that Ive used to justify my provisional decision, but 
Moneybox customers over a certain age who opened the account when he did have been 
unfairly treated compared to other customers. He said he didnt feel his personal 
circumstances had been addressed at all. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Rs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision Mr R has made a number of points to this service 
and Ive considered and read everything hes said and sent us (including what hes said 
about his health and personal circumstances). As Mr R is aware we publish our Final 
Decisions, this is why I dont find it appropriate to document Mr Rs health conditions or his 
age in detail in this decision  even if he wanted his full response to the provisional decision 
to be published on our website. This is to ensure we keep his anonymity. But I can assure 
him Im fully aware of everything hes told us about his health, and Ive kept his personal 
circumstances in mind when reaching a decision here, even if Mr R feels I havent 
addressed these at all. 
Mr R has mentioned the lack of safeguarding at the account opening stage and his health 
conditions at the time he was applying for the account. And while hes made Moneybox 
aware that he is a vulnerable adult throughout the complaints process, there is no evidence 
he contacted Moneybox prior to opening the account to make them aware of his health 
situation at the time. So I cant say that Moneybox should have been aware of Mr Rs 
personal circumstances. As the product was non-advised, the onus would be on Mr R to 
ensure that he understood the product and he had read the relevant documentation that 
Moneybox had provided him. And as he hadnt notified them of his vulnerabilities at the time, 
Moneybox werent given the opportunity to consider any reasonable adjustments they may 
have been able to make when providing him with the information he needed to make an 
informed decision.Ive considered what Mr R had said about him being locked into an account which had a 
huge disparity of interest rates. But the Cash LISA he opened was not a fixed term product 
as such. As I said in my provisional decision He would have been able to transfer his Cash 
LISA to an eligible third party stocks and shares LISA at any time if he wanted to do so. But 
it would be outside of Moneyboxs control if there was a lack of options available to him from 
other providers based on his current age. They would not be responsible for Mr R assuming 
if he opened the account it would be something he could transfer to a stocks and shares 
LISA down the line.
Ive considered what Mr R has said about the difference between how Moneybox treated 
new customers compared to existing customers and the disparity of the interest rates 
offered. But as I mentioned in my provisional decision The welcome pack also shows the 
interest rate of the account. It shows it is variable and that the interest rate can go up or 
down. So Mr R ought to have reasonably been aware that the interest rate could fall. While 
Moneybox subsequently offered a higher interest rate for new customers, they are able to 
make a commercial decision to do so. Moneybox have confirmed to our service that it was 
the third party who powered the Cash LISA who set the interest rate and not them. 
Moneybox have told Mr R that they were restricted by their contractual obligations with the 
third party who powered Mr Rs Cash LISA to switch to a Moneybox LISA to get a better 
interest rate. So although Mr R did not read the welcome pack due to his personal 
circumstances at the time of the account opening, Im satisfied that Moneybox explained the 
interest rate was variable and therefore it could fall (as well as increase).  
Ive considered what Mr R has said about him being unable to transfer his Moneybox Cash 
LISA to a Moneybox Stocks and Shares LISA even though they allow new customers to do 
the same thing. I addressed this in my provisional decision when I said while on the surface, 
it may seem a similar process, there is an established ISA transfer process in place for ISA 
transfers between different ISA managers, where transfers can be made electronically. 
There is not currently the same industry wide internal ISA transfer process. So it would be up 
to Moneybox whether they choose to facilitate an internal transfer or whether they choose 
not to offer this.  
Mr R has said he informed Moneybox of his condition as a vulnerable adult throughout the 
complaints procedure and no duty of care had been provided. But Moneybox appear to have 
responded to his complaint within the relevant timescales. I can see from the messages 
between Moneybox and Mr R that they responded to him in a timely manner. When Mr R 
apologised to Moneybox for the delay in responding to them due to personal issues he was 
experiencing, he said he would read through their response and get back to them. 
Moneybox responded the following week to say I hope you are well, I am just following up 
on the response sent by my colleague (name redacted) on 25 January. Have you had time 
to review his response? If you require more time, please let me know and if you have any 
other questions do not hesitate to get in touch. 
Mr R indicated he needed more time and the Moneybox staff member said No problem at 
all. if you need anything, let me know!. After another response from Mr R, the employee 
said I hope you are well, and Im sorry to hear that. Thank you for getting back to me on 
this, I will take these points into consideration for the investigation of your complaint and 
when writing the final response letter. So Im persuaded that Moneybox took into account 
Mr Rs circumstances which he made them aware of during the course of his complaint. 
They gave him time to respond and initiated contact when they hadnt heard from him. Mr R 
hasnt indicated what additional support he required from Moneybox, so I cant fairly 
conclude the support they provided didnt go far enough.
Ive considered what Mr R has said about Moneybox not applying an exemption to the government penalty, given what hes said to them and the financial hardship he is going 
through. While I am sympathetic to Mr Rs circumstances, I need to be mindful here about 
whether Moneybox have done anything wrong by not waiving any government penalty for Mr 
R to access the full amount of his savings. But despite Mr Rs personal circumstances, I 
would not expect Moneybox to waive the penalty because as Mr R is aware, it is not their 
imposed penalty to waive. A state bonus of 25% shouldve already been added to the 
account. So the 25% penalty would need to be paid to the state. If Moneybox chose to waive 
this for Mr R then this wouldnt prevent the state requiring the funds from the 25% penalty. 
And I wouldnt expect Moneybox to fund this, regardless of Mr Rs financial or personal 
circumstances  particularly when considering what Ive mentioned above regarding the 
opening of his LISA.
As I said in my provisional decision If you need to withdraw the money before youre 60, 
and its not for the purchase of your first home (up to £450,000) or due to terminal illness, 
you will pay a 25% government penalty. This penalty means that you will lose your 25% 
government bonus AND a further amount of your own contributions. See the section below 
entitled Can I withdraw money from my Cash Lifetime ISA? for more details. So Im 
satisfied that this is clear that there would be a penalty for withdrawing the funds unless he 
was 60, purchasing his first home (up to £450,000) or had a terminal illness. So while I have 
sympathy for Mr Rs personal circumstances, Im not persuaded that Moneybox would be 
able to apply leniency even in light of Mr Rs personal situation that would allow Moneybox to 
break HMRC rules and pay him any funds penalty free. So Im persuaded that it was clear 
to Mr R that there only certain events which would result in the penalty not applying here.
In summary, Mr Rs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr R will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman