DRN-3398364
The complaint
Miss W complains that the loan TM Advances Limited (TMA) approved for her was lent 
irresponsibly. She also complains that TMA failed to explain a feature of the structure of the 
loan relating to the interest being frontloaded, plus she felt that early settlement regulations 
may not have been adhered to. Miss W also says that a default was registered in relation to 
this loan in June 2020 when it ought not to have been.  
What happened
Miss W was approved for the loan of £1,500 repayable over 24 months on 2 February 2018. 
The repayment was scheduled to be £173.75 a month and the agreement front page 
showed that the Total Charge for Credit was £2,670 which meant that the total sum to pay 
was £4,170. 
TMA has sent to us copies of the information it gathered from Miss W and what it checked 
using a credit search agency (CRA) on 2 February 2018. Miss W had declared that her 
income was £2,400 and TMA obtained a copy of Miss Ws January 2018 payslip showing 
her net pay was just over £2,600. 
Miss W had told TMA that she wanted to consolidate some loans and leave her some left 
over so she doesnt need to take them again. This comment was recorded under a sub-
heading which demonstrates that reference to them was to payday loans. 
TMA verified Miss Ws work by calling the bank office at which she worked. TMA knew she 
lived in private rental accommodation costing £600 a month. It had calculated that her other 
living expenses were £900 in addition to her rent. It had noted that her monthly credit 
payments to other lenders were just over £496 and it had noted that Max Credit Pmts 
900.00 as well. 
It noted that Miss W was settling some balances and therefore reducing some of her monthly 
payments. A document has been sent to us, in addition to the credit search results TMA 
obtained on 2 February 2018, which lists her debts, the start date of those accounts, the 
balances on those accounts and what the payments were. It had noted the payment history 
on each of them and these details look to have come from the CRA results. A tick was next 
to the three  loans or accounts Miss W was going to pay off using the capital from the TMA 
loan. 
TMA had noted that she had no mortgage and no defaulted accounts.  
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and wrote to both parties to explain his view 
which was as follows:
- TMA had carried out proportionate checks and he did not think that it had lent to her 
irresponsibly
- the structure of the loan and the interest had been explained at the time Miss W 
signed the agreement and so TMA had not done anything incorrect
- that part of Miss Ws complaint about the Consumer Credit (Early Settlements) 
Regulation 2004 and the Consumer Credit (Settlement Information) Regulations 
1983 he did not think he could recommend it be upheld
- our adjudicator had not been provided with, and could not find any evidence of, a 
default being registered in relation to this loan in June 2020 and so this part was not 
upheld.  
Miss W did not agree and sent to us additional evidence and further submissions to 
demonstrate, in her view, that TMA did not do enough before approving the loan for her. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether TMA completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss W  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Miss W  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that TMA did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss W and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required TMA to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Ws ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TMA had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Miss W. In 
practice this meant that TMA had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Miss W undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for TMA to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss W. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
The loan amount of £1,500 was relatively modest. The term of 24 months meant that TMAs 
agreement committed Miss W for a relatively lengthy repayment obligation. I set out the 
details of the complaint and what TMA did before lending in the what happened part of the 
decision. And I have given more detail than I usually do so I do not need to repeat it here. I 
refer to that part for the details. 
TMA did not have to do as much as Miss W thinks it had to do before approving the loan. 
The regulations covering responsible lending require that the lender carries out proportionate 
checks. All that TMA did I would say was proportionate. TMA has confirmed to us that it 
carried out searches using two credit search agencies and it has told us the two it used. 
I have reviewed in detail the CRA results TMA has provided, the lengthy personal credit file 
Miss W has provided which was useful as it demonstrated the different reporting results 
across three different CRAs. Having done that, I have been able to identify most of the loans 
the TMA credit search results have come up with (and referred to as Finance House etc) by 
cross referring all the information from both parties. What appears to be the situation is that 
only about 50% of Miss Ws loans or accounts (one or two were like running account lines of 
credit which I recognise and I know how those lines of credit accounts work) seem to have 
appeared on the credit search TMA carried out.
I have thought about this carefully and essentially the conclusion I have come to is that TMA 
did carry out checks that were proportionate to her loan application both in terms of capital 
applied for, and that she was a new customer to them. The regulations do not require a 
lender to carry out a credit search but as TMA did do that then I have looked to see if it used 
the information it found appropriately. And I think it didMiss Ws argument is that TMA ought to have known more about her financial situation and 
so if it had then it ought not to have lent. But, I do not see how I can conclude that TMA did 
wrong by not searching for to find evidence of debts and loans about which it knew nothing 
having carried out its own CRA search. I think that would have been disproportionate.
Miss W queried whether TMA did use more than one CRA when pulling together the 
information it used about her credit and debt situation and it has confirmed that it used two. 
And I have seen from my own analysis of the information both parties have presented to me 
that some of the loans Miss W had, did not appear on the CRA results document TMA has 
sent to me and which it used to make the loan approval decision. Some are relatively easy to 
explain as to why they did not appear. Miss Ws personal credit file was recent and so likely 
showed all the history whereas TMAs was done on 2 February 2018. And loans with other 
lenders taken by Miss W just a few days before that date really are not likely to show up on a 
search done by any lender. Ive identified at least three of the loans Miss W had which fall 
into that category and explain those not being seen by TMA. And TMA cannot be criticised 
for that. 
And I did note that Miss Ws other successful complaints against one or two other lenders 
may have led to some of those details being deleted from her credit file more recently. 
Miss W had sent me details of those loans and I had them to hand when formulating my 
views. 
Another reason looks to have been that some other lenders do not all report the loans they 
have with customers to all the CRAs and so even Miss Ws own multi-agency report 
demonstrates that some CRAs have registered her loans and some have not. 
But there are some loans where I cannot explain why it is that they did not appear on the 
TMA search results but did appear in one of the columns of CRAs listed in Miss Ws 
personal credit file document she sent to us recently. 
As I have said earlier, Miss Ws personal multi-agency credit file report demonstrates that 
some loans appear with some CRAs and others do not. And I cannot conclude that this 
system is something that I can attribute as a TMA fault. 
Miss W expects that TMA ought to have reviewed her bank statements but I do not 
necessarily agree. In my view TMA had carried out proportionate checks and utilised the 
information it gathered. Using the information it had gathered and/or been told about Miss W, 
she was able to afford the credit commitments it knew she had plus her rent and living 
expenses plus the new loan cost it was about to approve for her. And so it would have had 
no information to alert it to necessarily consider carrying out further investigative checks 
about Miss Ws financial situation before approving the loan. Miss W would have known of 
the loans she had taken in the days leading up to the TMA application and so her knowledge 
would have been more up-to-date than TMAs
I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint about irresponsible lending.
Miss Ws detailed response to our adjudicators view did not include any comments about 
the other parts of her complaint - I have addressed them here for completeness. 
That part of Miss Ws complaint about the structure of the loan and that the interest had 
been frontloaded and not explained to Miss W is the second element I have reviewed. And 
I agree with our adjudicator  it had been explained at the time Miss W signed the 
agreement and so TMA had not done anything incorrect. And clause 2.2 of the agreement 
does set out the payments received by TMA would be allocated to default charges first, then to interest and lastly to capital. So, I do think that Miss W was made aware of this at the time 
she took the loan. 
And in relation to that part of Miss Ws complaint about the early settlement regulations, it 
seems from TMAs explanations and the agreement that TMA were fully cognisant of the 
early settlement regulations and applied them. It explained: We charge the full amount of 
your interest at the beginning of the loan agreement. This means that we do not charge 
interest on a daily or monthly basis. You owe the total amount payable on day 1 and you are 
obliged to make payments monthly in line with your agreement. If, however, you decide to 
settle your loan early (in full or partially) we are obliged to give you a rebate of some of the 
interest under UK law. The Consumer Credit Act gives a complicated calculation of the 
minimum rebate of interest we need to apply. The formula to calculate the rebate can be 
found at the following link http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2004/1483/regulation/4/made 
This rebate is deducted from your current balance to calculate the settlement figure. The 
rebate changes daily and you receive less rebate the further you are into your loan term.
I have no reason to doubt that this was the approach and that TMA was in line with the 
regulations. So, I do not uphold this part of Miss Ws complaint. 
Our adjudicator had not been provided with, and could not find any evidence of, a default 
being registered in relation to this loan in June 2020 and so this part was not upheld. In his 
letter of opinion our adjudicator said hed be content to review this if any evidence of the 
default was forwarded to him. No evidence has been sent to show a default was registered.  
I have looked at the personal credit file sent to us by Miss W and I can see that across three 
CRAs to which the TMA loan was reported, no default was applied. 
I do not uphold this part of Miss Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman