DRN-3039534
The complaint
 Mr B complains about the way that Barclays Bank Plc dealt with his application to port his
existing mortgage to a new property. 
What happened
 In 2010, Mr B took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays. In 2018, Mr B took out a
fixed rate. An early repayment charge (ERC) would apply if the mortgage was repaid before
31 January 2021.
In April 2020, Mr B applied to port his existing mortgage to a new property. The application
completed in July 2020. The application encountered a number of difficulties, including:
The application was initially declined.
Barclays would only allow Mr B to port £150,000 of his £164,000 mortgage.
There were technical issues that caused delays.
There were delays while Barclays carried out an affordability check.
When Barclays issued a mortgage offer it was for a completely new mortgage product 
not the one Mr B wanted to port.
Barclays carried out two searches which were recorded on Mr Bs credit file.
When Mr B accepted the offer, it applied the ERC of around £3,000.
Mr B complains that he had no choice but to accept Barclays offer or he would lose his
buyer. He is now tied in to a fixed rate product with Barclays, he has used savings to make
up the shortfall and he is unable to borrow the amount he initially wanted. He said he has
spent a great deal of time on this matter.
I issued a provisional decision. Subject to any further submissions, I found:
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Barclays hasnt treated Mr B fairly. But for the
avoidance of any doubt I consider that:
It was unfair and unreasonable for Barclays to initially decline and then reduce Mr Bs
borrowing and to carry out an affordability check. He was an existing borrower. Under
the relevant rules, there is no requirement for Barclays to carry out an affordability check
if the borrower isnt raising any additional money. So it should have allowed Mr B to port
his existing product and the full balance to the new property.
Rather than process a porting application an application for a new product was put in
place. I understand this was as a result of Mr Bs broker inputting the application
incorrectly. But it ought to have been clear to Barclays that Mr B wanted to port his
existing product  he said that in emails to it before the offer was produced.
The application took longer than it should have due to some administrative difficulties
and because Barclays carried out affordability checks when it didnt need to.
Where a business hasnt treated a consumer fairly, our approach is to put the consumer
back in the position they would have been in had the business treated them fairly and
reasonably.
If Barclays had acted fairly, I consider it ought to have identified that Mr B wanted to port his
existing product and allowed him to transfer his full existing mortgage balance and interest
rate product to a new property. If it had done so, Mr B would have been free to remortgage
after 31 January 2021. It seems likely that he would have done so as it appears that
Barclays is unable to lend him the money that he requires. It seems less likely, on balance,
that Mr B would have agreed to a new fixed rate product that tied him in and prevented him
arranging borrowing elsewhere.
In saying that, while Barclays hasnt treated Mr B fairly, it appears that there was a mistake
by his broker which led to this chain of events. I note I havent investigated a complaint
against the broker and they havent had the opportunity to defend their position. But while
that was the initial error that led to this chain of events, Barclays had opportunities to identify
that Mr B wanted to port his existing product. If it had acted fairly and reasonably it would
have identified at an early stage that Mr B wanted to port.
I also note that Mr B signed the mortgage offer, tying himself into the new fixed rate. Its not
clear if Mr B had exchanged contracts by that point. But I accept that he is likely to have
invested time and money in selling his home and buying another and was under pressure
from his buyer to complete. I can see why he felt he had no choice to agree to the offer 
and that time pressure could have been avoided if the application had been progressed in a
timely manner to begin with.
Overall, I consider it would be fair for Barclays to give Mr B six months from the date Mr B
accepts my final decision to remortgage to a different lender with no ERC. It should also pay
him a further £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience he has suffered on top of the
£300 I understand it has already paid. That is to reflect the stress caused to Mr B over the
period in question and also the difficulties he has experienced, having to change his plans
and juggle his finances to accommodate the reduced borrowing and being unfairly tied in.
I proposed that Barclays should 
Waive any ERC applicable to his mortgage if Mr B remortgages to a different lender
within six months of accepting my final decision.
Pay Mr B £200 for distress and inconvenience.
In addition to:
Refunding the ERC it applied when Mr B moved in July 2020.
Refunding the August 2020 payment.
Refunding the £275 final redemption charge.
Remove one search from Mr Bs credit file.The £300 I understand has already been paid to Mr B to reflect the distress and
inconvenience he suffered.
Barclays and Mr B accepted what I said. But Mr B added, that Barclays had previously 
offered £325 and it hadnt been paid  and he didnt accept his broker made a mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have accepted what I proposed in my provisional decision. I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I made in that decision. I will address the two points Mr B has made.
I have reviewed Barclays final response of 7 August 2020. Mr B is correct that it does offer 
£325 and says that the offer remains open.
Im not considering a complaint about the broker. So for the avoidance of doubt, I cant say 
that it was their mistake which contributed to this chain of events. In any case, it doesnt 
change my decision that Barclays didnt treat Mr B fairly and what it must do to put things 
right. I accept Barclays should have known at an early stage that it was Mr Bs intention to 
port his existing mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Waive any ERC applicable to his mortgage if Mr B remortgages to a different lender
within six months of the date he accepts my final decision.
Pay Mr B £200 in addition to the £325 it has already offered for distress and 
inconvenience  a total of £525.
In addition to:
Refunding the ERC it applied when Mr B moved in July 2020.
Refunding the August 2020 payment.
Refunding the £275 final redemption charge.
Remove one search from Mr Bs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman