DRN-3857501
The complaint
Mr A complains he didnt know he needed to credit his account each month and was 
unaware of the deadline to pay back his overdraft. He is unhappy that Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) defaulted his account without his knowledge. He says Santander shouldve 
done more to contact him than send letters as it had done in the past.
What happened
Mr A held a student account with Santander with an arranged overdraft facility. On the 
application form under the declaration signed by Mr A on 29 September 2014 it says Mr A 
must pay a minimum amount into my account each month.
In 2019 Santanders internal notes record that Mr As account was sent to collections and he 
was advised and reminded that he needed to credit the account each month. Mr As account 
was changed from a student account to a graduate account on 15 July 2020. The terms and 
conditions of this account were similar in that although there was no minimum monthly 
funding requirement Mr A was required to pay money into the account with his primary form 
of funding.
In July 2020 Mr A failed to credit his account and his account entered Santanders 
management of collections and recoveries department on 27 July. Following this Santander 
sent several letters to Mr A at the address it had registered for him about the status of his 
account. The letters informed Mr A that he needed to make regular payments to the account 
and that if he could not make these payments to contact Santander for help. 
Following no credits being made and no response from Mr A, on 5 October 2020 Santander 
sent a letter informing Mr A that his overdraft was about to be removed and that if he didnt 
make payment within 10 days, followed by regular payments it would remove all of his 
banking facilities.
On 20 October 2020 Santander sent a letter to Mr A informing him that his overdraft had 
been removed and that he needed to pay back the outstanding overdraft amount. The letter 
explained that Santander shares information about the account with credit reference 
agencies and this may affect his ability to get credit in the future. 
This was followed up with further letters but as Santander had no response or contact from 
Mr A it issued a notice of its intention to default the account on 29 December 2020 and a 
default was applied on 3 March 2021.
Mr A says he never received these letters as the address Santander had registered for him 
was his student address and due to the pandemic hed moved back in with his parents. Mr A 
says he paid back the outstanding amount on his overdraft as soon as he was contacted by 
the debt collectors by telephone. He says he wouldve paid back his overdraft in time had 
Santander contacted him by telephone as it had done in the past.  
Mr A complained to Santander that he was not aware he needed to credit the account each 
month and was unhappy it defaulted his account. Santander said Mr A was advised in 2019 
by a member of its staff that he would need to credit his account to prevent it going to 
collections. It says no error was made as it wrote numerous letters advising the account was 
dormant and what was to happen and that it was Mr As responsibility to update it of his 
address for correspondence. It acknowledged in the past it has contacted Mr A over the 
phone to advise of account issues, but this isnt always possible and that these calls are out 
of courtesy and that it did its best to notify Mr A in writing.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander sent the default notice and earlier correspondence to the correct last known 
address for Mr A and couldnt see that Mr A had let it know of a temporary change of 
address during the pandemic. They thought Santander had followed the correct processes in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account and that writing to Mr A was standard 
industry practice and so didnt think Santander needed to do anything more.  
Mr A disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr A has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr A back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr As main complaint point is that it was unfair Santander registered a default on his credit 
file when he hadnt received notice of this. He says had he known what was to happen hed 
have paid the balance straight away as he did when he was contacted by debt collectors on 
the phone. 
So the question I have to ask is whether Santander did anything wrong in removing Mr As 
overdraft and banking facilities or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, 
notifying him of the actions it intended to take by letter rather than by phone and registering 
a default when he didnt pay back the outstanding balance of his overdraft in the required 
time.
Having reviewed Santanders internal notes and Mr As application form for his account I 
think it is likely Mr A understood he needed to make regular credits into the account and that 
Santander was entitled to take the decision to withdraw the overdraft facility and seek the 
outstanding balance following a lack of regular credits into the account.
And Im in agreement with our adjudicator that there was no requirement that Santander 
should use alternative communication methods to notify Mr A about the status of his account 
and the actions it was taking.  I accept that during the period in question Mr A wasnt living at 
his university address due to the pandemic. I understand that updating his address mightnt 
have been a priority for Mr A, but ultimately the responsibility of this was his. And I dont 
think it would be fair to find Santander at fault for writing to Mr A at the address it had 
registered for him rather than using an alternative means of communication which it was 
under no obligation to do. 
So I dont think Santander acted unfairly when after writing to Mr A about the status of his 
account on numerous occasions, over a number of months and having no response it took 
the decision to withdraw his overdraft which resulted in a default being registered on Mr As 
credit file. I understand that Mr A is concerned about the impact this has had on his credit report, but Santander has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers 
affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate  and what was 
reported is as far as Im aware a true reflection of what happened. 
It might assist Mr A to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit record. 
The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. If he wishes to do this, he should contact the credit reference 
agencies directly. 
So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mr As complaint as I dont think 
Santander has done anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman