DRN-2691927
The complaint
The estate of Mrs E is unhappy because Towergate Underwriting Group Limited hasnt 
responded to queries about reissuing cheques paid in settlement of a claim under a travel 
insurance policy in 2001. 
Mr E, the late Mrs Es son, has brought this complaint on behalf of the legal representatives 
of the estate of Mrs E. 
What happened
Mrs E and her husband had a travel insurance policy, arranged through Towergate. 
In 2001, Mrs E made a claim under the policy for a holiday which was cancelled because her 
husband had sadly died. Towergate, on behalf of the underwriter of the policy, issued three 
settlement cheques. The cheques were originally made payable to Mrs Es late husband in 
error. Towergate later apologised to Mrs E for this error and reissued the settlement cheques 
in Mrs Es name. 
Unfortunately, Mrs E also subsequently passed away. Mr E found the original cheques which 
had been made payable to Mrs Es late husband in Mrs Es paperwork. In January 2019, 
Mr E contacted Towergate and asked that the cheques be reissued and made payable to 
him. 
Mr E chased Towergate on a number of occasions. Mr E was told, due to the age of the 
claim, the matter would need to be handled by a different company. Mr E was later told the 
cheques would either be reissued or returned with information about the correct address to 
send them to. When Mr E didnt receive any response to his follow-up emails to Towergate, 
he brought a complaint to our service. 
Towergate told us it couldnt locate Mrs Es claim and didnt provide us with any information 
about the claim or about Mr Es complaint. Our investigator therefore issued an opinion 
based on the information that was available to her (the evidence provided by Mr E) and said 
she wouldnt be asking Towergate to do anything more. 
Mr E didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to impartially investigate complaints where 
a consumer thinks they have lost out financially because of a business error. If we think a 
business has done something wrong and this has caused a consumer to suffer a financial 
loss, we can recommend that the business should put things right. 
Towergate made an error when dealing with the original claim, when it made the settlement 
cheques payable to Mrs Es late husband. Towergate apologised for and rectified this error 
and reissued the cheques to be made payable to Mrs E in 2001. So, the payment for the 
travel insurance claim was ultimately made directly to Mrs E. This meant the original 
cheques which were made payable to Mrs Es late husband were no longer valid. 
I wont be asking Towergate to reissue the original cheques which were made payable to 
Mrs Es late husband, as I think these cheques were already reissued and paid to Mrs E in 
2001. 
Theres no evidence to suggest that the cheques which were reissued to Mrs E in 2001 
werent cashed. So, based on the information Ive been provided with, Im not satisfied that 
Mrs E or her estate have lost out financially in this case. 
I understand, alternatively, Mr E wanted the original cheques returned to him. I dont think 
these cheques have any value but, nonetheless, weve asked Towergate to return them to 
Mr E. However, I cant direct for Towergate to do this as the estate of Mrs Es late husband  
and not the estate of Mrs E, or Mr E himself  is now the owner of the original cheques. 
Given the length of time that has passed since Mrs Es claim was made in 2001, its 
understandable that it would take Towergate some time to identify the correct business area 
or department to direct Mr Es query to. However, at the time Mr E brought this complaint to 
us, Towergate had been aware of the matter for nearly a year and I think this is an excessive 
delay. It would have been helpful if Towergate had, at a minimum, acknowledged Mr Es 
emails to it. 
I dont have the power to punish or fine a business for its actions. While I can direct a 
business to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced by a 
consumer in certain circumstances, it wouldnt be within my remit to make any such award to 
Mr E even if I thought one was warranted. I could only ask Towergate to pay compensation 
for the impact of its actions on its customer. Mrs E was Towergates customer but neither Mr 
E nor the estate of Mrs E were customers of Towergate for the purposes of this complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E, but I wont be asking Towergate to do anything further.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs E 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman