DRN-3789957
The complaint
Mr O complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited, has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system (the system) he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr O is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In March 2018, Mr O purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr O financed the purchase through fixed sum loan agreement with Omni that was 
repayable over 120 months.
In December 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Os behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Omni. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr O to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding, in that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments and electricity savings.
S said it would apply for FIT payments on Mr Os behalf. 
Omni issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr O or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and they initially thought the complaint should 
be upheld. Omni disagreed and pointed to the documents from the time of sale which it said 
made clear the system would not be self-funding. Having thought about this further, our 
investigator was of the opinion that the complaint should not be upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Our client relied on the verbal representations made by the sales representative and 
placed little reliance on the documentation, because the sales representative was so 
convincing with the way they verbally explained the financial benefits of the system. 
The sale in this matter was conducted in our clients home, face to face, and as such 
the vast majority of the sales meeting was conducted verbally. Our client had no 
reason to believe that the assurances they had been given during the course of that 
meeting were inaccurate, they simply trusted the sales representative and the 
constant assurances that the solar panel system would cover its own cost and would 
be entirely self-funding.
As our clients have said on many occasions, why would they agree to purchase the 
solar panel system if they believed they would be out of pocket as a result? Generally 
speaking, to purchase solar panels or indeed any other supposed cost saving 
measure makes absolutely no sense if the measure actually costs the buyer more 
than they will save. 
Our client was not taken through the documents in any detail and was simply asked 
to sign them. 
Our client was repeatedly assured that the system would be self-funding each month 
and would actually start making a profit within a period of 5 years.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr O paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr O could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr O and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Omni. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Omni. These 
include the credit agreement, quotation/order form, contract variation form and estimated 
returns sheet.
The quotation/order form and estimated returns sheet were prepared during the sales 
meeting. So, I think they were integral to the sale and that the salesperson is likely to have 
gone through the information on those documents. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Information on cost and benefit
The quotation/order form shows both the basic cost (excluding loan interest) and first year 
benefit of the system. The basic cost is shown as £8,355.00. The first-year benefit is shown as £351.47. This includes Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments and electricity savings assuming a 
self-consumption rate of 50%. 
Self-consumption rate is the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Mr O 
would use himself. 50% self-consumption is generally used because the FIT scheme 
assumes that 50% of generated electricity is exported to the National Grid, with the 
remainder used within the consumers home.
It seems clear that an annual benefit of £351.47 would be insufficient to meet the cost of the 
loan, which was £107.96 per month, or to cover the cost of the system within five years.
The estimated returns sheet directly compares the basic cos, monthly loan repayment and 
the monthly benefit as follows:
This clearly shows the monthly loan repayment of £107.96 against the average monthly 
benefit of £46.84. And it shows there is a shortfall between the benefit and the monthly loan 
repayment of £61.12.
I think these documents are clear as to what the basic cost, monthly repayment, average 
monthly and first year benefits of the system are. And that on a monthly basis Mr O could 
expect his loan repayments to be £61.12 per month more than the combined FIT payments 
and electricity savings.
With this in mind, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson  while going through these 
documents  wouldve told Mr O that the benefits of the system would meet or exceed the 
monthly loan repayment or cover the cost of the system within five years. 
The CMC has suggested that Mr O wouldnt have agreed to buy the system if he was told it 
was not immediately self-funding. But it appears he was told that  because he agreed to 
pay at least £61.12 per month more in loan repayments over and above the benefits he 
would receive from owning the system. So, I think Mr O ought to have been aware that the 
system would not be immediately self-funding.
Mr O did not apply for the FIT scheme, which is now closed to new applicants. So, he has 
not been receiving FIT payments, which were a significant part of the benefits the system 
would provide. Mr O says this is because S said it would make the application for him. But 
Ive seen no evidence to support what Mr O has alleged. 
My understanding is that the owner of the system would need to make the application. 
Although a supplier could assist them in this it could not make the application for them. As 
far as Im aware Mr O took no action to follow this up despite not receiving any FIT payments 
since the system was installed. Had he done so within a reasonable time he wouldve been 
able to apply before the FIT scheme closed. 
That Mr O is not receiving FIT payments will be a significant reason as to why the benefits 
he is receiving are less than were set out in the sales documents. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr 
O to enter into the contract for the system. And I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman