DRN-3548826
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree (TSB) gave misleading 
information about making an early repayment on their mortgage account. 
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W says they approached TSB in mid- October 2020, following a family 
inheritance, to get advice on how they could most efficiently and effectively redeem part of 
their mortgage account. Mr W and Mrs W says TSB on various different occasions, both 
over the telephone and in writing, gave them conflicting and confusing information on how 
much they could repay without incurring early repayment charges (ERC). 
Mr W and Mrs W feel this poor advice has meant they were left confused and totally unclear 
how much they could repay on their mortgage account, meaning they have incurred interest 
costs they didnt need to pay. Mr W and Mrs W says this has been very stressful for them 
both and they have lost an opportunity to have potentially re-mortgaged over this time on 
better terms. 
Mr W and Mrs W dont feel the apology and offer of £250 in compensation made by TSB for 
its poor advice and service goes far enough to cover the extra interest they have paid during 
this time, or the inconvenience it has caused them.
TSB says it accepts it gave misleading information to Mr W and Mrs W regarding how much 
they could pay off their mortgage without incurring ERCs. TSB says it also accepts it took 
longer to respond to Mr Ws and Mrs Ws initial complaint than it would have liked. TSB says 
it has offered Mr W and Mrs W a total of £250 in recognition of this, which it believes is fair. 
Mr W and Mrs W werent happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator says given TSB accepted it made an error she could only consider if the amount 
of redress it offered was fair and she didnt feel it was. 
The investigator felt that Mr W and Mrs W would have made a lump sum reduction to the 
mortgage account earlier than they did if the correct information had been provided by TSB 
at the outset. The investigator felt as a result TSB should pay Mr W and Mrs W an additional 
£150 by way of compensation on top of the £250 it has already offered. 
Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I also uphold the complaint but have a different opinion of the level of 
redress to be awarded and I will explain how I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been both frustrating and upsetting for Mr W and Mrs W to be 
given differing information from TSB regarding the amount they could reduce their mortgage 
account, without incurring ERCs. 
When looking at this complaint, given TSB have accepted it made mistakes here, I will 
consider if the amount of redress it has offered is sufficient.  
Mr Ws and Mrs Ws complaint centres around TSB being unclear about what level of 
reduction they could make to their mortgage account without incurring penalties. Mr W and 
Mrs W says TSB on more than one occasion both verbally and in writing, gave conflicting 
information to them about the amount they could reduce their mortgage account and what 
ERCs were payable if they did. Mr W and Mrs W are also unhappy that TSB took so long to 
respond to their complaint. Additionally, Mr W and Mrs W have since told this service they 
were told by TSB the ERC would be substantially lower than it originally told them, meaning 
they could have acted sooner to re-mortgage elsewhere.  
The first thing to say when making a full and impartial decision here is I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. I should also say its not the role of this service to scrutinise TSBs 
complaints process or to tell TSB how it should deal with complaints more widely, so I wont 
be commenting on this part of the complaint.
What is clear here is TSB have made a series of mistakes when Mr W and Mrs W contacted 
them to enquire how much they could reduce their mortgage account by, without incurring 
any ERCs. While no doubt the Covid pandemic would have caused staffing issues for TSB, 
like many banks at this time, it doesnt detract from the fact the information it gave to Mr W 
and Mrs W was both  inaccurate and conflicting. That said TSB have accepted it made 
errors here and have offered Mr W and Mrs W compensation of £250 to put things right. 
While its not the role of this service to penalise businesses when mistakes are made, in this 
instance like the investigator I dont feel TSB have gone far enough to put matters right. 
I should say although Mr W and Mrs W may not agree it is their responsibility to also check 
the terms and conditions of their mortgage agreement, where it does make clear what the 
level of ERCS are, depending on the timing of any lump sum repayment. It does state the 
following :
On or after 1 November 2019 and before 31 October 2021:
- 3% of the amount repaid, maximum amount of charge £14,304.95
On or after 1 November 2021 and before 31 October 2022:
-1% of the amount repaid, maximum amount of charge £4,768.32
So while Mr W and Mrs W didnt include in their initial complaint to this service, their point 
regarding the difference in ERCs quoted to them initially and in a redemption statement 
dated March 2022, all I can say is this was because the percentage rate of the ERC had 
changed from 3% to 1% over this time. Its also worth making clear the larger ERC amount 
Mr W and Mrs W refer to,  would be on the full amount of the mortgage being redeemed, not 
the partial repayment Mr W and Mrs W initially intended to repay  Im satisfied on this point 
the terms and conditions in the mortgage agreement make that cost clear. 
In any event, I have seen no evidence to support Mr W and Mrs Ws view they could have 
looked elsewhere to re-mortgage having known that. Even if they were unclear, it was their 
responsibility to check the level of ERCs due if the mortgage was to be fully redeemed and additionally, I cant say if they would have been approved for such a mortgage product 
elsewhere, as each application undergoes various criteria and are based on individual 
circumstances. As I said previously this wasnt part of Mr W and Mrs Ws original complaint 
to this service, so I wont be commenting on this point any further.
What isnt clear here is the amount Mr W and Mrs W could repay without incurring any 
ERCs and its fair to say TSB failed to make this known to them. With that in mind, given Mr 
W and Mrs W had informed TSB they intended to make substantial reductions to their 
mortgage account and had the means to do so, Im satisfied in all likelihood if they had been 
correctly informed in October 2020 that they could have paid off 10% of their mortgage 
account balance without ERCs, they would have done so. Afterall they have since made 
sizeable reductions since then, in addition to the £30,000 in February 2021. 
Taking this into account, I feel the correct course of action here is for TSB to calculate the 
amount of interest Mr W and Mrs W would have saved if they had reduced their mortgage 
account by the allowable 10% of the outstanding balance, which by my calculations would 
have been a capital sum reduction of £47,335.68. 
This calculation should be based on the period between 19 October 2020, when Mr W and 
Mrs W first contacted TSB, to 19 February 2021 when they finally made a lump sum 
reduction of £30,000. 
In addition, TSB should also make clear in writing to Mr W and Mrs W what further ERC free 
payments if any, they can make before the expiry of the fixed interest product on the 31st 
October 2022. When doing so TSB should take into account this is an interest only 
mortgage, so any reductions of course would also reduce the capital sum outstanding and 
the monthly interest payments on that sum.  
TSB should also pay Mr W and Mrs W the £250 it offered, simply because of the 
inconvenience it has caused them.  
While both parties may be disappointed with my provisional decision, I am satisfied this is a 
fair outcome here. 
Both Mr W and Mrs W and TSB responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr W and Mrs W and TSB until 7 July 2022 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Both parties have accepted my provisional decision, therefore I see no reason to 
change or add to my original provisional decision, so my final decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I instruct TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree to action the following:
 Calculate and pay Mr W and Mrs W the amount of interest they would have saved if 
they had reduced the mortgage account by the allowable 10% of the outstanding balance as at 19 October 2020. This should be calculated up to 19 February 2021.
 Pay Mr W and Mrs W £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
 TSB should also make clear in writing to Mr W and Mrs W what further ERC free 
payments if any, they can make before the expiry of the fixed interest product on the 31st 
October 2022.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree to action the following:
 Calculate and pay Mr W and Mrs W the amount of interest they would have saved if 
they had reduced the mortgage account by the allowable 10% of the outstanding balance as 
at 19 October 2020. This should be calculated up to 19 February 2021.
 Pay Mr W and Mrs W £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
 TSB should also make clear in writing to Mr W and Mrs W what further ERC free 
payments if any, they can make before the expiry of the fixed interest product on the 31st 
October 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman