DRN-3385220
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Santander UK plc changed the details on their mortgage 
account and their credit files on the basis of a letter from a fraudster. As a result, they say 
they have suffered identity fraud with other lenders as well as with Santander.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had a residential mortgage with Santander. In June 2019, Santander received 
a letter claiming to be from Mr T, asking it to change all his and Mrs Ts contact details. It 
went ahead with the changes.
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs T repaid the mortgage. The following year, Mr and Mrs T were 
turned down for a car loan. They checked their credit files, and found various accounts had 
been opened in their names which they knew nothing about. Their contact details on some 
of their own accounts  including the Santander mortgage  had also been changed.
Following Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, Santander accepted it hadnt done enough checks 
when it received the fraudulent letter in 2019, and it shouldnt have changed Mr and Mrs Ts 
contact details. It removed the fraudulent details from its records, and amended Mr and Mrs 
Ts credit files to remove the link to the fraudulent address. It also said it was sorry and sent 
Mr and Mrs T £500 by way of compensation.
Mr and Mrs T said that wasnt good enough and got in touch with us. Our Investigator 
thought Santander had done enough to put things right. He found the fraudster had a lot of 
Mr and Mrs Ts personal information and had sent similar letters to other lenders with whom 
Mr and Mrs T held mortgages. He didnt think he could fairly hold Santander responsible for 
the wider problems Mr and Mrs T had had with the fraud.
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept that conclusion. They thought Santander was the first to have 
linked the fraudulent address to them on their credit files, and it was this which had led other 
banks not to carry out thorough identity checks before opening fraudulent accounts. They 
also said Santander hadnt been helpful when they told it what had happened, and they had 
had to spend a huge amount of time and energy sorting out the mess  and it isnt over. 
They wanted more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T have been victims of identity theft, and I was sorry to read about their 
experience; I have no doubt that it has been very distressing and upsetting for both of them. 
It will also have been very time-consuming to try and sort out. I understand that Mr and Mrs 
T have been keeping a close eye on their credit files and have also looked into protective 
registration with fraud prevention agencies, and I hope this will have given them some 
reassurance.
Theres no dispute that Santander shouldnt have changed Mr and Mrs Ts contact details in 
2019 without first making enquiries. It has removed the fraudulent details from its records, 
along with the information it recorded about the fraudulent address on Mr and Mrs Ts credit 
files. It has also apologised and paid Mr and Mrs T £500 compensation.
Mr and Mrs T feel very strongly about what happened and that Santander shouldnt have 
made the mistake in the first place. Thats not in any doubt. However, its not possible now to 
turn back the clock and unwind things  and its not for the Financial Ombudsman to fine or 
punish financial businesses when they get things wrong. I can make awards of 
compensation but, having considered this case very carefully, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our Investigator: I think the £500 Santander has already paid represents a fair 
settlement.
Ive seen a copy of the fraudulent letter, which Santander has also sent to Mr and Mrs T. It 
asked Santander to update all Mr and Mrs Ts contact details, and contained their home 
address, and details of their residential mortgage including the start date, monthly payment 
and balance, and account number. It also included both Mr Ts and Mrs Ts e-mail addresses 
and mobile and landline numbers, and Mr Ts date of birth, as well as details of a Santander 
loan in Mr Ts name. 
Its clear that the fraudster had a great deal of Mr and Mrs Ts personal information at their 
disposal before Santander acted on the letter. Theres nothing to suggest that they got that 
information from Santander, and I understand that they also wrote to another of Mr and Mrs 
Ts lenders on the same date, with details of some of Mr and Mrs Ts buy-to-let mortgages  
and Mr Ts contact details with that lender were subsequently also changed to the 
fraudsters. 
I can certainly see that once a fraudster has convinced one bank to change an address on 
an account, its likely to be easier for them to commit further fraud. Linking the fraudulent 
address to Mr and Mrs T on their credit files is part of that process  but it doesnt mean that 
other lenders shouldnt carry out proper checks before lending or making their own 
amendments. And, given the amount of personal information the fraudster had about Mr and 
Mrs T and their contact with at least one other lender, I cant fairly find that the fraud Mr and 
Mrs T have experienced wouldnt have happened but for Santanders part in the matter.
I do think Santander should have done more to help when Mrs T initially alerted it to what 
had happened, and it should, for example, have directed her to appropriate organisations 
rather than to the police. It did however later confirm it had corrected Mr and Mrs Ts records 
and, in all the circumstances, I consider the £500 it has paid is a fair award in recognition of 
the considerable upset and inconvenience Mr and Mrs T have been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc has done enough to settle this complaint, so I 
make no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman