DRN-1599132
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. and its decision to partially decline a claim made under a travel insurance 
policy. Mr and Mrs T want the rest of their claim paid. 
Background
Mr and Mrs T had an annual travel insurance policy with Mapfre. They travelled 
abroad and Mrs T needed medical treatment.
Mr and Mrs T made a claim for medical expenses and curtailment, but Mapfre would 
only pay 57% of the elements of the claim covered by the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs T complained to Mapfre about its decision.
Mapfre said Mr and Mrs T hadnt properly answered the questions about their health. 
It accepted that this had been due to a mistake on their part, rather than deliberate. 
Mapfre said if the correct answers had been given and a full declaration of pre-
existing medical conditions made, it wouldve charged significantly more for the 
policy. It said Mr and Mrs T had as a result only paid 57% of the premium, and this 
was all it would pay towards the claim.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and brought their complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld.
Mr and Mrs T doesnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. The relevant rules and industry guidelines 
say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt 
reject a claim unreasonably.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should not be upheld for these reasons: 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For 
it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers 
questions were. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on 
whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would 
have at least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the 
insurer must show it would not have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the 
misrepresentation. If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have 
to deal with any claims under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and 
the insurer would have charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation, it will have to consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it 
accepts it. 
In Mr and Mrs Ts case, I think the questions asked about their health were clear. The 
evidence shows that if the correct information had been given at the time, the 
premium wouldve been higher, but the policy wouldve been offered. I note Mapfre 
accepts that the non-disclosure wasnt deliberate and has treated the qualifying 
misrepresentation as careless. Mapfre has also shown that only 57% of the premium 
that would've been charged at the time has been paid by Mr and Mrs T, so I think its 
decision to only pay 57% of the claim covered by the terms and conditions of the 
policy is fair and reasonable, particularly as it reflects our long-established approach 
to misrepresentation cases.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 
2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman