DRN-2818925
Complaint
Mr A has complained that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aquacard) irresponsibly provided him 
with credit card limit increases, which increased his debt. Hes also said that Aqua failed to 
respond to his needs by sending his account statements in an alternative format when he 
explained he was visually impaired.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 29 April 2021
Aqua provided Mr A with a credit card, with an initial credit limit of £250, in October 2012. 
This information provided in Aquas file indicates that Mr A was offered credit limit increases 
to the following amounts on the following occasions:
Date Amount of additional credit New limit
January 2013 £350.00 £600.00
May 2013 £200.00 £800.00
August 2013 £1,000.00 £1,800.00
July 2014 £750.00 £2,550.00
April 2015 £1,000.00 £3,550.00
August 2015 £1,000.00 £4,550.00
March 2016 £1,400.00 £5,950.00
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint. He didnt think that Aqua had done 
anything wrong when increasing Mr As credit limit or that Aqua unfairly failed to provide     
Mr A with his statements in an alternative format. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
On 29 April 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr As 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that having carefully considered the relevant issues, I thought there 
were three overarching questions that I needed to consider in order to provisionally decide 
what was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr As complaint. These questions 
were:    
Did Aqua carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each 
lending decision (in other words - when initially providing the card and then each time 
it increased the credit limit)?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not 
have shown?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each credit limit increase, was 
there a point where Aqua ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr As 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
Did Aqua act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way?
 
I started by considering the first of these overarching questions.
My consideration of this matter began by me explaining that the rules and regulations 
throughout Aquas lending relationship with Mr A required it to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable 
manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Aqua had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr A. In practice this 
meant that Aqua had to ensure that making the payments to the credit wouldnt cause Mr A 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Aqua to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
any repayments on Mr A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
I explained that there might also be other factors which could influence how detailed a 
proportionate check shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) 
any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. I kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Aqua did what it 
needed to before initially agreeing to Mr As credit card and each time it increased his credit 
limit. 
Aqua said that Mr A passed its affordability checks which were based on external credit 
bureau date and in line with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines before initially 
agreeing to provide Mr A with a credit card and the subsequent credit limit increases. It didnt 
really provide the detail in relation to what these searches showed but it said Mr A wasnt in 
arrears on any accounts and didnt have any defaults. As a result, he would most likely have 
been eligible for credit limit increases in line with its policy on responsible lending.
The initial decision to provide Mr A with a credit card with a limit of £250I explained that Mr A was given a credit facility where there was an expectation that hed 
repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. The Office 
of Fair Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG), which was in place at the time 
Aqua initially provided this card rather than any FCA guidance, didnt set out what a 
reasonable period of time is. So I thought it important to note that a reasonable period of 
time would always be dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. 
That said, Mr As income at the time together with there not being anything too concerning 
on his credit file led me to think that it was reasonable and proportionate for Aqua to have 
concluded Mr A would be able to repay £250 within a reasonable period of time. So I didnt 
think that Aqua did anything wrong when it initially provided Mr A with a credit card that had 
a £300 limit.    
The first credit limit increase in January 2013
Aqua then offered Mr A a credit limit increase to £600 in September 2013. In my view, this 
was a significant increase and I thought this meant Aqua needed to ensure Mr A could 
sustainably repay a balance of £600 within a reasonable period of time. Aquas 
correspondence appeared to suggest that its decision to increase the credit limit on Mr As 
account was based on his account conduct and management. I had significant concerns with 
the principle of this approach. 
It was not clear to me how and why a borrower who was able to successfully manage a 
given credit limit could then automatically be deemed, without further checks, to be able to 
successfully manage a higher limit. It seemed to me that this logic would likely lead to 
continually increasing limits, unless or until problems arose. And for reasons I went on to 
explain later on in my provisional decision, thats precisely what ended up happening further 
down the line in Mr As case.
Notwithstanding this, at the time of the first limit increase I could see that Mr A had made a 
couple of large payments to his account and the balance was kept under the limit in the 
months since the account had been opened. So I could to some extent see why this may 
have given Aqua the impression that Mr A was managing the account well. And although I 
didnt think that this is, in itself, meant that Mr A was in a position to sustainably repay the 
balance within a reasonable period I found that the decision to increase Mr As credit limit to 
£600 wasnt unreasonable.     
The second credit limit increase in May 2013
The second credit limit increase increased Mr As credit limit by £200 from £600 to £800. It 
took effect in May 2013. I accepted that as the limit was only increased by £200, there was 
an argument for saying that this wasnt a significant increase to the credit limit and so there 
wasnt a need for a further affordability assessment. But £200 was a third of the previous 
£600 limit. So I wasnt necessarily persuaded by this argument. It wasnt clear to me what 
checks, if any at all, Aqua carried out before deciding to offer the credit limit increase to 
£800. 
But, in any event, the information I had led me to think that it was more likely than not that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would not have shown that Mr A wouldnt have been 
able to sustainably repay the additional £200 within a reasonable period of time. So I didnt 
think that it was wholly unreasonable for Aqua to have offered and then provided this credit 
limit increase to Mr A.
 
The third credit limit increase in August 2013 Aqua increased Mr As credit limit by a further £1000 to £1,800 in August 2013. This clearly 
was a significant increase. So I explained that Aqua needed to carry out further checks to 
understand whether Mr A could sustainably repay a balance of £1,800 within a reasonable 
period of time. Aqua hadnt said exactly what it was it relied on in order to conclude that Mr A 
would be able to sustainably repay a credit limit of £1,800.00. It simply said that it saw no 
arrears on either Mr As account with Aqua or other lenders; no cash spends, which can be a 
high-risk indicator when coupled together with other factors and there were minimal late and 
over limit fees.
But none of this told me about Mr As disposable income at the time, or his ability to 
sustainably repay the extra £1,000 Aqua was offering. Indeed, in my view, Aqua appeared to 
be relying heavily on its internal risk strategies. Given Aqua insisted that Mr As credit was 
responsibly provided, I thought that it ought to have known  and also been able to explain  
exactly what information it gathered, how it interpreted this information and how its internal 
risk strategies led to responsible lending decisions being made in Mr As case. 
Indeed it appeared to me as though Aqua expected me to simply accept its standard 
process (and internal risk strategies) always led to fair lending decisions. Without such an 
explanation from Aqua, I could not and would not take it as read that its decisions to lend to 
Mr A were fair simply because its  internal risk strategies  approved these increases. 
That said, having looked at Mr As bank statements in the months leading up to August 
2013, I was satisfied that Mr A did have the funds to make the payments required to repay 
£1,800 within a reasonable period of time. I said this while also mindful that Mr As 
repayment record on his Aqua card at this point showed him making payments significantly 
in excess of what he was required to do so. Therefore, while I wasnt persuaded the checks 
Aqua carried out before increasing Mr As credit limit in August 2013 were reasonable and 
proportionate, I was satisfied that such checks wouldnt have prevented Aqua from offering 
the additional funds.  
However, I didnt think it was necessary for me to go on to recreate individual, proportionate 
checks from this point onwards. This was because of the second of the overarching 
questions required me to consider whether there was a point where Aqua ought reasonably 
to have realised it was increasing Mr As indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit. And I thought that this point 
had been reached in July 2014. 
In reaching this conclusion I was mindful that the relevant rules and guidance made it clear 
that a lender shouldnt have continued offering credit where the borrowing is unsustainable 
or otherwise harmful and/or where it was apparent the borrower may have been 
experiencing financial difficulties. So in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each 
individual lending decision, I also thought it was fair and reasonable to look at what unfolded 
during the course of Mr As account history with Aqua  especially how it was managed. 
By this stage Id already explained why I thought that reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks werent completed from the second credit limit onwards. And that based 
on the evidence on file, I couldnt say that proportionate checks would not have shown that 
the first, second and third limit increases when considered individually were unsustainable.
But looking at what happened after August 2013 (when the third limit increase came into 
effect) and the period leading up to the increase in July 2014, I thought that a pattern of Mr A 
struggling to manage his account and his existing debt had now become established. Mr A 
made a number of minimum payments  five in a row  in the lead up to July 2014. Furthermore, while Mr As payments, after the card was first provided, were making inroads 
into the outstanding balance, Mr As overall indebtedness was increasing from October 
2013. There was only a single month where Mr As balance was under £1,000. So Mr As 
payment history, in itself, was suggesting that he might not have been able to repay his 
account balance within a reasonable period of time. It also looked like Mr A was already over 
his existing limit at the time the July 2014 limit increase took place. And I thought that the 
account was never really able to recover from this point.
In my view, Mr As account management showed that he may well have been struggling 
financially (he breached his existing credit limit once in in the six months leading up to July 
2014, four times in the six months leading up to April 2015, three times in the six months 
leading up to August 2015 and twice in the period leading up to the final limit increase in 
March 2016) and, at the very least, it was a clear indication that he wasnt managing the 
credit on his account well. Aqua had even told us that there was an increase in over limit 
fees which can be a strong predictor of risk. And I also thought it was aware that it was 
required to monitor Mr As repayment record and offering assistance where it appeared that 
he might have been experiencing financial difficulty. 
I didnt think that more than trebling Mr As credit limit  in the less than two-year period 
between July 2014 and March 2016 and therefore offering substantially more credit at an 
APR of 32.2% - when Mr A was already struggling to manage his existing debt was offering 
assistance. In my view, Aqua increasing Mr As credit limit in this way and in these 
circumstances was adding to any potential financial difficulty rather than offering assistance. 
I was also astounded by Aquas decision to offer Mr A a credit limit increase in the 
circumstances that it did in March 2016. Aqua said that it wouldnt necessarily decline to 
offer an increase just because a borrower exceeded their credit limit as long as the account 
was immediately brought up to date. But Mr A was charged over limit fees (and so was over 
his limit) in January 2016 and February 2016. So his account clearly wasnt immediately 
brought back within its limit. And it also looks like he was also charged late payment fees 
too. 
And leaving aside my concerns at Aqua appearing to have failed to follow its own lending 
policy, the March 2016 increase clearly took place after a sustained period of Mr A proving 
himself unable to manage his account and being over his limit. I couldnt see any reasonable 
basis for Aqua concluding that this payment record meant that Mr A would be able to 
sustainably repay a further £1400 within a reasonable period of time.   
In my view, Aqua increasing Mr As credit limit in this way - when he was already clearly 
demonstrating an inability to manage his existing debt - unfairly increased and prolonged his 
indebtedness. I thought that Aqua ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that Mr As 
existing debt may well have become a problem and taken steps other than continuing to 
provide more and more expensive credit. Instead, its actions meant that Mr A paid Aqua high 
amounts of interest for the privilege of it allowing him to delay dealing with his unsustainable 
debt.
I saw what Aqua said about it sending Mr A letters offering him the opportunity to opt out of 
the proposed limit increases. But I couldnt see how this made a difference as to whether it 
was fair and reasonable to offer these limit increases in the first place. It seemed to me that 
Aqua was trying to outsource its responsibility to assess whether Mr A was able to 
sustainably make the payments to an increased credit limit onto Mr A. And I didnt find this 
line of argument helpful and I certainly didnt find it persuasive. 
Given all of Aquas obligations and what I thought was fair and reasonable taking into 
account the circumstances and everything Id covered, I found that Aqua ought fairly and reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr As indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so it shouldnt have provided any further credit limit 
increases after it increased Mr As credit limit to £1,800 in August 2013.
I then went on to consider whether Aqua had acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A in 
some other way. 
Mr A was unhappy that Aqua failed to adapt to his communication needs when he explained 
that he had a visual impairment and was having difficulty reading the correspondence he 
was being sent. Hed said that he informed Aqua of this several times from 2015 onwards 
yet it continued sending documents in its standard format.
Aqua provided screenshots from its records which detailed the contact it had with Mr A 
during the years hed been a customer. I looked through the records and I couldnt see any 
conversations where Mr A mentioned he was visually impaired, or that he was having 
difficulty with Aquas correspondence, or that he made a request for it to be provided in an 
alternative format prior to 2019. 
Of course, the lack of a record on Aquas contact logs didnt in itself mean that Mr A didnt 
notify it about this matter sooner and I was mindful that Aqua also accepted that it didnt 
adjust its communications to Mr As needs even when it did hear from him in 2019. But in the 
absence of any records from Mr A (or his representative on his behalf) or any confirmation of 
the specific dates that these calls took place, I didnt have enough to make a finding that it 
was more likely than not Aqua unfairly and unreasonably failed to act on a request from Mr A 
to provide correspondence in a format more tailored to his needs prior to 2019.
That said, all parties were in agreement that Mr A did get in contact about his visual 
impairment and the difficulty he was having with the correspondence he was receiving in 
2019. Aqua and our investigator were both of the opinion that Mr A didnt lose out as a result 
of Aquas failure to adapt to Mr As communication needs as he managed his account. But I 
disagreed with this for a couple of reasons.
Firstly, as Id already set out earlier, I wasnt persuaded that Mr As account was being 
managed well at this stage. And, in any event, I couldnt see and didnt understand how 
Aqua collecting Mr As monthly payment by direct debit each month showed that he wasnt 
having any difficulty reading his statements. In my view, Aqua was automatically collecting a 
set amount each month. And if anything, Mr A simply sticking to the monthly direct debit 
supported him perhaps having difficulty reading his statements as he didnt respond to the 
suggestion that he increase his monthly payment to avoid falling into persistent debt. So I 
didnt think that Mr As management of his account told me anything about his ability to read 
and understand the correspondence he was sent.
In any event, even if I did accept Aquas argument that Mr A wasnt prevented from acting 
any differently by Aquas failure to take account of his visual impairment, which Id already 
explained I did not, I explained that when a business is aware that a customer has a visual 
impairment, Id expect it to respond in a positive and proactive way to try and provide 
assistance. In these circumstances, it ought to have engaged with the customer in a way 
which encouraged them to explain what adaptation, or support they required. Most 
importantly, Id expect the business concerned to take reasonable steps to ensure it was still 
able to provide a level of service commensurate to what it offered to its other customers.     
So when Mr A told Aqua about his visual impairment, I would have expected it to have made 
reasonable adjustments in order for its service to be accessible to Mr A. These adjustments 
should have looked to ensure that Mr A received statements in a format, which enabled him 
as closely as was reasonably possible, to get the same level of understanding usually 
achieved by customers who didnt have his visual impairment. Having considered everything, it was clear to me that Aqua didnt take any steps at all to meet Mr As needs let 
alone make any reasonable adjustments. 
I didnt think Aqua had been responsive or flexible and I was satisfied Mr A hadnt been able 
to read important documents and letters hed been sent. So I found that Aqua unfairly failed 
to adapt to Mr As communication needs and it followed that I found that it did act unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way.  
All of this led to me issuing a final decision which found that:
Aqua did complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr A to satisfy itself that 
he was able to sustainably repay the initial credit limit of £250 (in October 2012) and 
£600 at the time of the first credit limit increase (of £350) in January 2013; 
Aqua didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr A to satisfy itself 
that he was able to sustainably repay what she owed for any of the credit limit 
increases offered from May 2013 onwards;
reasonable and proportionate checks would not more likely than not have shown    
Mr A was unable to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of 
time when his credit limit was increased to £800 in May 2013 and £1,800 in       
August 2013;
Aqua ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the credit limit increases after 
August 2013 (in other words the ones from July 2014 onwards) were unsustainable 
or otherwise harmful for Mr A and were unfairly and excessively increasing his overall 
indebtedness; 
Aqua did also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some other way.
These findings leave me intending to issue a final decision which found that Aqua didnt act 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A.
I also found that Mr A had lost out as a result of Aqua failing to act fairly and reasonably 
towards him, because he had to pay a significant amount of interest and charges. I then 
finally set out a method of putting things right for Mr A, which I found addressed Aquas 
failings and Mr As resulting loss.
Aquas response to my provisional decision
Despite being provided with a further copy of my provisional decision and being chased to 
do so, Aqua didnt provide anything further for me to consider, or ask for any additional time 
to do so.
Mr As response to my provisional decision   
Mr A responded to confirm that receipt of my provisional decision. And he made no further 
points for me to consider.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the relevant law and regulations; relevant 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and relevant codes of practice. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, law and publications, I remain of the view that the 
three overarching questions that I set out in my provisional decision are what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These 
are:
Did Aqua carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each 
lending decision (in other words - when initially providing the card and then each time 
it increased the credit limit)?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not 
have shown?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each credit limit increase, was 
there a point where Aqua ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr As 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
Did Aqua act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way?
I carefully considered these questions and set out, in some detail, my findings in relation to 
them in my provisional decision of 29 April 2021. Given this is the case, and Ive not been 
provided with anything further at all to consider, Ive not been persuaded to depart from the 
provisional findings I reached on 29 April 2021.
As this is the case I find that:
Aqua did complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr A to satisfy itself that 
he was able to sustainably repay the initial credit limit of £250 (in October 2012) and 
£600 at the time of the first credit limit increase (of £350) in January 2013; 
Aqua didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr A to satisfy itself 
that he was able to sustainably repay what she owed for any of the credit limit 
increases offered from May 2013 onwards;
reasonable and proportionate checks would not more likely than not have shown    
Mr A was unable to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of 
time when his credit limit was increased to £800 in May 2013 and £1,800 in       
August 2013;
Aqua ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the credit limit increases after 
August 2013 (in other words the ones from July 2014 onwards) were unsustainable 
or otherwise harmful for Mr A and were unfairly and excessively increasing his overall 
indebtedness; 
Aqua did also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way.
These findings leave me concluding that Aqua didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr A 
in its dealings with him. As Ive already explained why Mr A lost out because Aqua didnt act 
fairly and reasonably towards him, I think it should put things right for Mr A. And Ill now set 
out what I think Amigo should do.  Fair compensation  what Aqua needs to do to put things right for Mr A
Ive given a lot of careful thought to what fair compensation should look like in this case. 
The unfair credit limit increases
I want to start by saying that in most cases, where credit has been provided when it 
shouldnt have been, it would be fair and reasonable for the lender to refund any interest and 
charges paid by the borrower (if they were) plus interest. And the borrower would be 
expected to repay any remaining amount of the funds they were given. So ordinarily Id 
expect Mr A to pay back the funds he was lent  when he used his card  but not the 
interest. 
That said, Im mindful of the particular circumstances of this case and I think that a simple 
refund of the interest and charges merely provides a useful starting point here. Bearing in 
mind the circumstances, I think Aqua needs to do a bit more than this and it should therefore 
do the following. 
Aqua should start by reworking Mr As account to remove the effect of any interest and 
charges accrued on the account as a result of the unfair credit limit increases which took 
place in July 2014, April 2015 and August 2015. In other words, for the period from the July 
2014 statement up until March 2016 statement, Aqua can only add any interest due on the 
first £1,850 of the balance (of course any capital spend on the card can be included as this 
isnt being written off)  all late payment and over limit fees also need to be refunded 
irrespective of what any reconstructed balance may show. 
Ive also said that I was especially concerned about the March 2016 limit increase. Aqua 
increased Mr As credit limit by a further £1,400.00 at a time when it clearly would have seen 
he was in financial difficulty and proving unable to repay a lower amount. So Aqua should 
remove all the interest, fees and charges added to the account after March 2016 to reflect 
the fact that he was in financial difficulty and it failed to offer assistance and exercise 
forbearance.
I also think that, in March 2016, Aqua advanced additional credit in circumstances where it 
ought reasonably to have realised that there was a significant risk it wouldnt get what it was 
advancing back without this causing Mr A financial difficulty. Aquas decision to advance a 
substantial amount of additional credit in these circumstances was so egregious and Mr A 
has clearly been unable to pay these funds back. In my view, my direction on this case 
should fairly and reasonably reflect this. 
So I also think that Aqua should reduce the reworked balance (once all interest, fees and 
charges adjustments have been made) by a further £1,400 to reflect the fact that it provided 
this further sum in circumstances where it ought to have known there was a realistic 
possibility it would see those funds dissipate and it, in any event, chose to take that risk. As 
that loss went on to materialise, I think that its Aqua that should bear this loss. And it should 
reduce the reworked balance by a further £1,400 to fairly and reasonably reflect this.Compensation for Aqua acting unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way
As well as Aqua unwinding any wrongdoing caused by it allowing Mr A to continue using his 
credit card after it became unsustainable, I also think that Aqua should pay compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience its failure to make reasonable adjustments to take account of 
Mr As visual impairment caused. Our website contains detailed examples of distress and 
inconvenience awards we might make and the reasons why we might make them. These are 
set out in different categories and levels  to show the range of awards we make. 
Ive carefully considered the amount of compensation Aqua should pay with reference to 
these distress and inconvenience awards and categories. Ive already explained that Mr A 
was in financial difficulty in 2019. And I think his apparent financial difficulty at this time 
means hes unlikely to have been able to clear the arrears which had built up. Nonetheless 
he will have had to ask other people to read private and confidential correspondence to him 
and its arguable that a visually impaired marker being placed on Mr As account may have 
prevented it from being sold to a third-party. Although its unclear what Aquas policy on this 
matter is.
 
Having considered all of this in the round, I think that Aquas actions caused Mr A a 
moderate amount of distress, inconvenience, anxiety and suffering. Our website sets out a 
compensation range of up to £500 where a consumer has suffered moderate distress and 
inconvenience. Given this happened at a time when Mr A was already struggling financially 
and is bound to have compounded matters, I think an award at the top end of this scale is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. 
So having carefully considered everything, given the particular circumstances of Mr As 
complaint, Im awarding Mr A £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by Aqua 
acting unfairly and unreasonably towards him in some other way.
All of this means that Aqua should do the following to put things right for Mr A.
rework the account to ensure that from July 2014 until March 2016 interest is only 
charged on the first £1,850 outstanding - to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All interest fees, and charges applied to the 
account from March 2016 onwards should be removed to reflect that Mr A was in 
financial difficulty and Aqua should have exercised forbearance. All late payment and 
over limit fees should also be removed; 
reduce the reworked account balance by a further £1,400; 
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr As account once all adjustments have been 
made Aqua should contact Mr A to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr As credit file, it should 
backdate this to March 2016; 
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr A 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments 
have been made, then Aqua should remove any adverse information from Mr As 
credit file;pay Mr A £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it 
unfairly failing to make reasonable adjustments in response to being notified of       
Mr As visual impairment.  
HM Revenue & Customs requires Aqua to take off tax from this interest. Aqua must give     
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
From what Ive seen it appears as though Aqua sold the outstanding balance on this account 
to a third-party debt purchaser. So it either needs to buy the account back from the third 
party and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to 
make the necessary adjustments, or pay Mr A an amount to ensure that it fully complies with 
this direction.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint. NewDay Ltd should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman