DRN-4037636
The complaint
Mr P complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds poor service and delays in 
transferring his pension to another provider. He believes hes suffered a financial loss 
as a result of Avivas actions.
Although some of the contact with Aviva was made by Mr Ps independent financial 
adviser (IFA) at the time, for ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to it as being made by Mr P 
directly.
What happened
Mr P was a member of an Executive Pension Plan (EPP) with Aviva. Along with a former 
colleague, he decided to transfer his EPP to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) 
with a new provider.
Mr P asked Aviva to calculate his EPPs transfer value. On 30 December 2019 Aviva 
calculated the value as £473,771.58. The total fund value was £673,346.49 once a 
terminal bonus of £199,574.91 was added. Aviva explained that the bonus wasnt 
guaranteed and that fund values could go up or down.
Mr P completed the necessary paperwork for Aviva to transfer his pensions on or around 
30 March 2020. It seems that Aviva received the application around 3 April 2020 (it was 
logged on its system around 6 April 2020). Mr P then signed some forms for the receiving 
scheme around 6 April 2020 and a trustee declaration for Aviva on 23 April 2020. Aviva 
received the declaration the following day.
Mr P called Aviva on 7 May 2020 to chase progress on the EPP transfer. It said it had 
received the trustee declaration form and thought it would take about ten working days to 
process the request from that date and another three to five working days for the payment 
to clear. However, Aviva had also been made aware of a change of address for the 
trustees, which it had to process.
Mr P later complained to Aviva about delays and poor communication.
Aviva issued its response on 29 May 2020 and accepted there were certain things it 
could have done differently. In particular, it acknowledged that when it received the 
trustee declaration, it should have checked it and either issued an update or payment 
within ten working days. It said that once a payment had been made to the new 
provider, it would work out any loss that Mr P might have suffered due to its delays. It 
also said it was making a compensation payment of £100 to Mr P to recognise the 
inconvenience caused.
On 5 June 2020 Aviva wrote to Mr P to tell him that it had sent a payment of £664,061.38 
to the new pension provider. It seems this payment was made on 3 June 2020.
Mr Ps IFA contacted Aviva to find out why there was a reduction in the transfer value 
compared to the amount quoted in late December 2019. Aviva explained that the 
difference in values was largely due to when the transfer calculations were completed 
and changes in bonus rates.
Aviva wrote to the new provider in August 2020. It accepted it delayed in transferring Mr 
Ps pension funds and thought that might have had a detrimental effect on their value. It 
asked the provider for information about the investments made, so it could work out 
whether there had been a financial loss. It looks like the new provider sent that 
information around 21 August 2020.
In late September 2020, Aviva said it was in the process of completing a loss 
assessment. But as Mr Ps policy was invested in a number of different funds, each 
fund had to be calculated individually before it could provide the outcome of its loss 
assessment.
Mr P wrote to Aviva out of despair on 11 November 2020. He described a number of 
issues with its service and said he had no alternative but to refer his complaint to this 
Service. We received Mr Ps complaint shortly after.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt feel Aviva had acted fairly 
and he said it was unclear why the transfer process had taken so long. He also didnt 
understand why despite receiving fund information from the receiving scheme around 21 
August 2020, Mr P was yet to hear from Aviva about a loss calculation. The investigator 
set out what he thought Aviva needed to do to put things right and he recommended it pay 
Mr P an additional £350 compensation on top of the £100 already paid.
Aviva wrote to Mr P on 28 October 2021 about the loss calculation. It accepted that funds of
£664,061.38 should have been transferred on 20 May 2020 (its mentioned other dates 
elsewhere) rather than 3 June 2020. And the upshot of the delay was that fewer units 
could be bought once the funds were eventually transferred. Avivas letter suggested that 
Mr P was due an additional payment of £7,359.31. However, in a letter sent in November 
2021 Aviva suggested the amount was £7,069.76. Mr P didnt accept Avivas calculation 
as he thought the transfer should have happened in April 2020, not June 2020.
Our investigator issued a follow up assessment. He said, amongst other things, that it was 
difficult to say exactly when the transfer request should have gone ahead. However, 
having considered the timeline provided, he thought it would have been around 6 April 
2020. He felt it was fair for Aviva to calculate any compensation due from that date. 
Therefore, he thought Aviva should work out the notional value of Mr Ps fund from 6 April 
2020 instead of 20 May 2020. He recommended that those two values should be 
compared in order to determine the loss that Mr Ps pension fund had suffered.
Whilst Mr P accepted the investigators assessment, Aviva didnt. It included a timeline of 
key events to support its position and confirmed that it had calculated a liability date of 
24 April 2020, meaning that was the date on which it felt it had all of the information 
needed to process the transfer request. As I understand the position, it also locks in the 
fund value at that date. In its more recent responses to this Service Aviva confirmed that, 
allowing for ten working days processing time to deal with a change of address form, it 
thinks it could have transferred the funds on 20 May 2020. It confirmed that was the date 
it used in its loss calculation.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was referred to an Ombudsman. Its 
been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decisionI sent Mr P and Aviva my provisional decision on 7 March 2023. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below.
I dont think theres any dispute that the transfer process and loss calculation took far 
longer than Mr P could reasonably have expected. But there is a dispute about whether 
Avivas calculations fairly recognise the extent of its delays and the true loss that Mr Ps 
pension fund may have suffered.
After very careful consideration, Im intending to reach a different outcome to our 
investigator about when the transfer would likely have taken place. On balance, I think 
that Aviva was in a position to complete the process and transfer funds by 11 May 2020. 
Obviously, that means I dont accept Avivas position either. Ill explain how Ive reached 
that conclusion.
Mr Ps recollection is that he completed the paperwork for the transfer around 30 March 
2020 and some documents for the receiving scheme around 6 April 2020. Taking account 
of the usual sequence of events, that does seem consistent with Avivas account that it 
logged the application on or around 6 April 2020.
I can see that Aviva had to request a signed declaration from Mr P in order to complete the 
transfer process. That doesnt seem unusual or unreasonable. Aviva requested that on or 
around 11 April 2020 and it had received a response from Mr P by 24 April 2020 (I can see 
that Mr P signed the form on 23 April 2020). So, Aviva treated 24 April 2020 as the liability 
date which is the date on which it had the key information from Mr P to complete the 
transfer process. Based on what Ive seen, Im inclined to agree with that.
I asked Aviva about its normal service standards for completing a pension transfer. In 
response it said it doesnt have any published standards of its own and that these can 
vary from company to company. Its pointed out that in other cases where its service 
standards have been questioned, this Service has referred to The Association of British 
Insurers (ABI) statement of good practice 2006.
Im familiar with that statement. Under a heading Timing and Communication it says:
Any paperwork or other requests relating to pension transfers that arrive at a schemes 
office should generally be completed within 10 working days. If this is not possible, 
wherever practicable the scheme should contact the consumer or their adviser to state 
when they expect to complete the item of work.
Ive taken Avivas response to mean that, where possible, it aims to complete activity 
such as pension transfer requests in line with the standard referred to above. I think its 
reasonable for Aviva to do that, especially as its confirmed it has no service standards of 
its own for pension transfers.
But apart from the fact that Aviva wasnt able to meet the standard in Mr Ps case, Im also 
not persuaded about how its applied it when it comes to other action it took. I say that 
because Avivas explained that it received a scheme change of address form from Mr P 
on 6 May 2020. And it seems to think it was fair to then allow a further ten working days to 
process that. I dont agree.
As far as I can tell, the change of address was a fairly straightforward administrative task. 
My interpretation of the ABI statement is that ten working days is to generally allow for 
processing administrative tasks of that kind too - especially given the reference to 
paperwork or other requests relating to pension transfers. In other words, I dont think it 
envisaged a further ten-day period being applied, especially not for a fairly simple task. Also, in its complaint response of 29 May 2020, Aviva itself accepted that it should have 
checked the trustee declaration sooner (which may well have identified the issue to do 
with the change of address sooner) and have issued an update or payment within ten 
working days of receiving it. Ten working days of Aviva receiving the trustee declaration 
was around 11 May 2020.
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think Aviva acted fairly or reasonably here. I see no 
reason why it couldnt have updated the scheme address within a couple of days of 
receiving it, so by 8 May 2020, which would still have been within an overall ten working 
day processing window from when it received the signed trustee declaration on or around 
24 April 2020. It follows that I think Avivas actions had an impact on when it sent a 
payment to the new provider and when funds could reasonably be reinvested. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen and for the reasons Ive set out, I think Aviva should have 
completed the transfer by 11 May 2020 using the fund value as at the liability date of 24 
April 2020.
According to Avivas explanations, its tried to mirror when reinvestment would likely 
have happened had all things been equal. In general terms Id agree with that. But I 
dont agree with the basis for Avivas actual loss calculation. Ill explain why.
I can see from the information that the receiving scheme provided, having received the 
funds around 3 June 2020, reinvestment took place over a series of days between about 9 
and 12 June 2020. And, having apparently applied the same logic, Avivas calculation is 
based on reinvestment having taken place between 1 and 4 June 2020. As far as I can 
tell, that also assumes the transfer would have been completed on 20 May 2020. Ive 
already said why I dont agree with that.
However, there are other reasons why I dont agree. Aviva has explained to me that under 
normal circumstances, it would have transferred the funds by BACS. And there would 
normally be a three-day clearance time for payments made by that method. That accords 
with my understanding. But given the delays in this case, it made a payment by 
telegraphic transfer (TT) to speed things up. That doesnt seem unreasonable. But, in an 
effort to put Mr P back into the position he would have been in had there not been the 
problems and delays, Aviva appears to have added a three-day clearance time to each of 
the reinvestment dates in order to complete its loss calculation.
But I dont think thats fair. I say that largely because that method effectively assumes 
that the receiving scheme didnt receive the funds in one go. Ive seen no suggestion 
thats the case. So, I think its fair to apply one three-day BACS clearance period to the 
funds. And by my calculations, as I think Aviva was in a position to send the funds on or 
around 11 May 2020, I think the receiving scheme was in a position to start reinvesting 
them after about three working days  so by about 15 May 2020. It follows thats the date 
from which I think Aviva needs to apply the actual time it took the receiving scheme to 
reinvest the funds in order to arrive at a fair and reasonable loss calculation.
Responses to my provisional decision
After Id sent my provisional decision, Aviva clarified some of the information it had 
previously given. It maintains that it should have completed the transfer process by 20 
May 2020, owing to the fact it had to process a scheme change of address form. And 
it again seems to be suggesting that it was reasonable to apply a three-day BACS 
clearance time to each tranche of the reinvestments. Aviva hasnt provided any other 
comments in response to my provisional decision.
Mr P accepted my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any other detailed comments from Aviva, Ive thought about whether 
anything it clarified would cause me to change what I said in my provisional decision. I dont 
think it does. Ill explain why.
Ive already said in my provisional decision why I dont think its reasonable for Aviva to say it 
has a full ten working days processing time to amend something as simple as a scheme 
change of address. I remain of that opinion. 
I agree with Aviva (and said as much in my provisional decision) that it is reasonable for it to 
apply a three-day BACS processing period in its loss calculation when working out when 
reinvestment might have happened. Thats because, had all things been equal, thats the 
likely method by which funds would have been transferred to the receiving scheme. 
However, Aviva still seems to be suggesting that it was fair for it to apply that three-day 
window to each of the investment tranches that were made. For the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision, I dont agree. And Aviva hasnt said anything new that would cause me 
to change my mind on that front. Therefore, I see no reason to change the overall findings I 
reached in my provisional decision. My final decision is set out below along with the steps 
Aviva now needs to take to put things right. 
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should take the steps Ive set out below:
Revise its loss calculation based on the following parameters:
Assume that £664,061.38 was sent to the receiving scheme on 11 May 2020 
rather than on 3 June 2020. Allowing for three days BACS clearance time, I 
think the receiving scheme would have been able to reinvest the funds from 15 
May 2020. So, based on how long it took for reinvestments to take place once 
the receiving scheme actually received the funds, Aviva should mirror the 
reinvestment periods as Ive set out below using the dates in the new column. 
So, for instance, tranche one took five working days to be reinvested (assuming 
3 June 2020 is day one). Assuming that funds would have cleared on 15 May 
2020 (meaning it also counts as day one), I think the first tranche of 
reinvestments would have happened on or around 21 May 2020 (and so on).
Tranche Old Number of days New
1 9 June 2020 5 working days 21 May 2020
2 10 June 2020 6 working days 22 May 2020
3 11 June 2020 7 working days 26 May 2020
(allowing for a 
Bank Holiday)
4 12 June 2020 8 working days 27 May 2020
(allowing for a 
Bank Holiday)Aviva should then compare the notional value (new) with the actual value (old). If 
the actual value (old) is lower, then Mr P has suffered a loss equal to the 
difference between the two amounts. When putting right that loss, Aviva also 
needs to take account of the payment it offered Mr P of £7,069.76. (assuming 
thats now been paid) in order to work out the residual amount thats due to Mr P.
If payment of the above compensation into Mr Ps pension plan isnt possible, 
or has any other tax or allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr P 
as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
On top of that, Aviva needs to work out whether Mr Ps fund has suffered 
further investment losses and pay those in too (subject to the stipulations I set 
out above). From what I can gather, Aviva has completed its loss calculation up 
to and including 15 October 2021 when it did the work. But this calculation 
needs to be refreshed to account for any further losses up to the date of my 
final decision.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within 28 days 
of the date Aviva receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for 
any time, in excess of 28 days, that it takes Aviva to pay Mr P.
Theres no doubt that this matter has been a cause of great concern to Mr P. 
And whilst I do appreciate that Aviva had to complete a fairly complex loss 
calculation, I still think things took too long overall. I understand that Aviva has 
already issued a cheque in respect of the £350 compensation that our 
investigator recommended. However, Aviva itself recognises that there were 
further problems when issuing the cheque and when sending Mr P its loss 
calculation (an error meant that the calculation had to be reissued). Its offered 
to pay a further £100 compensation in light of this. I think thats fair, so Aviva 
should pay that additional amount now.
Aviva should send Mr P its revised calculation in a clear and easy to 
understand format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman