DRN-2903171
The complaint
Mr R has complained about an Argos store card account that he opened with Home Retail 
Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card (HRG). Mr R thinks HRG provided credit 
to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr R opened an Argos store card account with HRG in October 2018 with an initial credit 
limit of £400. He says at the time of the application he had no job and wasnt in receipt of 
any income at all. He also says he was suffering from mental health issues. 
Mr R says that HRG didnt carry out any checks and shouldnt have provided him with credit 
as it was unaffordable. A default was placed on the account in April 2020. Mr R complained 
to HRG and asked it to refund charges and interest and remove any adverse information 
from his credit file. In response, HRG said that when it received Mr Rs application, it had 
carried out a credit search to establish whether the criteria were met to allow use of its credit 
facility. It said Mr R met the criteria at the time. HRG said that Mr R had made his application 
online and that there was no indication that he was not of sound mind. It also said that Mr R 
hadnt told them he was unable to maintain payments on the account or that he was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
Mr R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the checks carried out by HRG at the 
time of the application were reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit being 
extended to Mr R. She also said there was nothing to indicate that Mr R had made HRG 
aware of any health issues. The investigator said that she didnt think HRG were wrong to 
lend to Mr R and that it hadnt done so irresponsibly.
Mr R didnt agree. He said HRG shouldve asked for wage slips and bank statements as 
evidence of his employment and income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether HRG did what it needed to do before it accepted Mr Rs 
application for the Argos card.
Before extending credit, a credit provided is expected to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. These would include checks on- for instance  the amount of credit 
being given and the consumers income and expenditure. A credit provider is also expected 
to establish whether the credit can be repaid in a sustainable manner.
HRG has said that before opening the account, it checked Mr Rs financial position using the 
data shown on his credit file. HRG told this service it uses credit scoring to help it decide 
whether to provider credit to an applicant. It also said it considers information such as the 
applicants residential and employment status, time with their bank and information provided 
by the credit reference agencies.
HRG said that when it carried out these checks, it found no previous details, county court 
judgments or other lending on MR Rs credit file and that his credit score was within risk.
Having looked at all the relevant information, Im satisfied that the checks carried out by 
HRG were reasonable and proportionate, taking into account the amount of credit being 
offered. I appreciate that Mr R has said that he told HRG that he was employed when he 
wasnt. Taking everything into account I dont think it was unreasonable for HRG to lend to 
Mr R in circumstances where his credit file had no negative records, his credit score was 
within risk and he had stated he was in employment.
I appreciate that Mr R thinks HRG shouldve done more checks to make sure he was in 
employment. However, the employment status isnt something which a credit provider is 
obliged to verify. Given the amount of credit, I dont think it would be proportionate for HRG 
to carry out employment checks.
Mr R has explained that he has health issues and didnt understand the implications of 
entering into a credit agreement. Ive thought about whether HRG ought to have known 
about this and whether this ought to have affected the lending decision. Ive reviewed all the 
information but I cant see that Mr R made HRG aware of his health condition. Nor can I see 
that he advised HRG that he couldnt afford repayments on the account. I dont see how, in 
the circumstances, HRG couldve been aware of any health and financial issues.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think there is evidence to suggest that HRG lent 
irresponsibly. Further, I dont think HRG made an error or acted unfairly in recording a 
default on Mr Rs credit file. I can see that Mr R missed payments on the account. HRG is 
under a obligation to report missed payments to the credit reference agencies.
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think HRG needs to do anything further here.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman