DRN-2735172
The complaint
Mr W complains about his interest only mortgage with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc. He says it 
agreed a term extension in March 2020, only to be told in September 2020 that no extension 
was possible. Mr W would like his mortgage to be extended to the end of 2021 to give him 
time to sell his property.
What happened
Mr W has an interest only mortgage with BoI. The term was due to expire in May 2021.
In March 2020, Mr W applied for a coronavirus payment deferral online. BoI agreed to defer 
his mortgage payments for three months and sent him a confirmation letter.
In June 2020, Mr W phoned BoI to discuss a further payment deferral. Again, this was 
granted and again BoI wrote to Mr W to confirm.
In September 2020, Mr W got in touch with BoI again. He said he understood the term of his 
mortgage had been extended by six months. But BoI said the term hadnt been extended. It 
said that wasnt an option it offered to repay a payment deferral on an interest only 
mortgage. It apologised for not telling the option to extend the term had been withdrawn. 
Mr W complained. He said BoI had agreed a six month term extension, and then gone back 
on it. He said his property was on the market, but he was concerned that with coronavirus 
restrictions in place it wouldnt sell before the term would otherwise end in May 2021.
BoI said it would only agree to extend the term to make up a deferral for customers with 
repayment mortgages. It accepted that it shouldnt have misled Mr W into thinking that was 
an option for his mortgage in June. 
BoI said that the regulators guidance for interest only mortgages which expired during the 
pandemic applied to Mr Ws mortgage, and it wouldnt therefore expect payment of the 
capital until 31 October 2021 in any case. And if Mr Ws property hadnt sold by then it would 
consider allowing a further six months grace period.
Our investigator said that BoI hadnt extended the term when it agreed the payment 
deferrals. But it should have been clearer with Mr W that that wasnt an option. He thought it 
should pay Mr W £150 compensation. But he thought its proposals around the end of the 
term were fair. 
Neither party agreed with the compensation the investigator recommended. Mr W thought it 
should be £15,000. And BoI didnt think compensation was due at all.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the coronavirus pandemic restrictions came into force in March 2020, the government 
and regulator were concerned that many borrowers would be unable to repay their 
mortgages during lockdown.
A scheme of payment deferrals was therefore put into place. A borrower could request that 
their payments be deferred for a maximum of three (later extended to six) months. 
Thats what Mr W applied for. A payment deferral means that he doesnt make his monthly 
payments for six months. But those payments need to be made up once the deferral comes 
to an end  and there are various ways of doing that.
Ive looked at the letter BoI sent Mr W in March 2020. It didnt agree a three month extension 
to his mortgage. It agreed a three month payment deferral. And it went on to say that at the 
end of the deferral period, Mr W and BoI would need to discuss how to make up the missed 
payments. It said the options for doing that would be repaying the missed payments either 
immediately or over an agreed period, or extending the term to allow the missed payments 
to be made up at the end. 
This letter therefore did not confirm that BoI had agreed a three month term extension. It 
hadnt. It had agreed to allow Mr W not to make any payments for three months. 
In June 2020 BoI sent a similar letter, agreeing a further three month payment deferral. 
Again this letter does not agree to extend Mr Ws mortgage term, though again it does offer 
this as one option to make up the deferred payments. 
I dont therefore agree with Mr W that his mortgage term had been extended, either by three 
months in March, or by a further three months in June.
The letters said a term extension to repay the deferred payments was a possibility that could 
be discussed, but that was all.
However, its clear that Mr W was confused about what had happened. And BoIs June letter 
didnt help matters  suggesting that a term extension could be considered, when in fact BoI 
had decided not to allow this for interest only customers.
When BoI told Mr W in September that it wouldnt agree term extensions for interest only 
customers, it meant that it wouldnt agree a term extension to cover a payment deferral.
But term extensions could still be considered for other reasons  including to allow time for 
repayment of the capital. Again, BoI wasnt clear about this.
More recently, the regulator has recognised that there are potentially a significant number of 
borrowers in the same position as Mr W  with an interest only mortgage which expires 
during the pandemic, and finding it more difficult than would otherwise be the case, because 
of the restrictions, to repay the capital.
The regulator said that borrowers in this position can defer repaying their capital until 
31 October 2021. And BoI has confirmed that this applies to Mr W. Its also said that if Mr W 
still hasnt sold his property by then it will consider a further grace period of six months to do 
so. I think thats fair  and it doesnt mean that immediately after the six months BoI can 
repossess the property if it still hasnt sold. It has ongoing obligations to treat Mr W fairly, 
and those obligations dont end at the end of the mortgage term.
Putting things right
This means that Mr W has at least until 31 October 2021  and, if he needs it, potentially six months after that  to repay his mortgage. This was what he wanted in the first place, and so 
I dont think hes now being treated unfairly.
However, I do agree that there was confusion about exactly what would happen at the end of 
Mr Ws payment deferrals. And this confusion led Mr W to worry about whether hed be able 
to repay his mortgage, believing he had an absolute deadline of May 2021 to do so and 
worrying about the impact of the pandemic. I think its fair that BoI pays him £150 
compensation for its part in this confusion.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc has acted fairly 
and reasonably in allowing Mr W until 31 October 2021, with the possibility of a further six 
months grace period if he needs it, to repay his mortgage.  But it should pay him £150 
compensation for the upset caused by the confusion about whether he would be able to 
seek an extension.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman