DRN-3152763
The complaint
Mr J complains about the information that he was given by Santander Consumer (UK) plc, 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance, about voluntarily terminating the conditional sale 
agreement under which a car had been supplied to him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J and to Santander Consumer 
Finance on 13 October 2021 in which I described what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr J under a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer Finance that he electronically signed in March 2018. He contacted 
Santander Consumer Finance about a payment holiday in January 2020 and he was 
told that he was able to terminate his agreement.
He was told in March 2020 that there was a shortfall of £2,477.89 on his agreement 
plus £70 in late payment fees which he needed to pay before he could voluntarily 
terminate the agreement. He referred to the January 2020 conversation and 
Santander Consumer Finance said that it would listen to that call and contact him by 
a specified date  but it didnt do that. Mr J borrowed money to buy another car in 
March 2020 and complained to Santander Consumer Finance in May 2020. 
It accepted that it hadnt provided full information about Mr Js potential liability and 
didnt clarify the amount that was payable during the call in January 2020. It also 
accepted that it hadnt listened to that call and contacted him as it said that it would. It 
said that in recognition of its errors it would like to apologise for any inconvenience 
caused and offered him £50 compensation  but it confirmed that the shortfall and 
late payment fees would be payable. Mr J wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt think it 
would be fair for Mr J to be liable for any outstanding payments since he acquired the 
second car in March 2020 or for his credit file to be impacted by any missed 
payments since then. He said that Santander Consumer Finance should accept 
Mr Js request to voluntarily terminate the agreement in March 2020 and that it 
should arrange a reasonable payment plan with Mr J for the shortfall. He also said 
that it should pay Mr J £350 because of the significant worry, stress and 
inconvenience that hed been caused.
Santander Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It has responded to our investigators recommendations in detail and 
says, in summary, that:
Mr J didnt ask to voluntarily terminate his agreement during the January 2020 
call and it hasnt received a written request for voluntary termination from him 
since then;
Mr J decided to buy another car in March 2020 but hadnt asked to voluntarily 
terminate his agreement at that time;
Mr J was told during the January 2020 call about the late payment fees;
Mr J was still discussing making further payments to it in March 2020 and 
voluntary termination of his agreement wasnt brought up in those discussions 
until late March 2020 when hed already bought the second car;
Mr J confirmed that he understood that 50% of the debt was due for a 
voluntary termination, he received a settlement figure in November 2019 and 
received an annual statement in February 2020 so wouldve known that he 
hadnt paid 50% of the debt; and
Mr J said during the January 2020 call and in February and March 2020 that 
he intended to keep repaying but he hasnt done so.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Ive listened to the January 2020 call and its clear that Santander Consumer 
Finance said: You are able to terminate your agreement; to which Mr J replied: I 
can hand back the car and finish the agreement?. He wasnt told that there was a 
shortfall of £2,477.89 on his agreement that he would need to pay before he could 
voluntarily terminate the agreement. Santander Consumer Finance has accepted that 
it didnt provide full information to Mr J about his potential liability and didnt clarify the 
amount that was payable during that call. 
Santander Consumer Finances account notes show that it had further conversations 
with Mr J in January and February 2020 about the monthly payments under the 
agreement and there was no mention of voluntary termination during those calls. 
There was then a conversation with Mr J in early March 2020 in which he said that 
hed been told that he didnt need to pay anything to voluntarily terminate his 
agreement and Santander Consumer Finance agreed to listen to the January 2020 
call and contact Mr J by a specified date  but it said that he wouldnt be able to 
terminate the agreement unless hed paid half of the total amount due under the 
agreement.
Santander Consumer Finance didnt contact Mr J by the date that it had said that it 
would  but it did contact him in late March 2020. By then Mr J had borrowed some 
money and had bought a second car and he stopped making the monthly payments 
to Santander Consumer Finance.
The conditional sale agreement says that Mr J had the right to end this agreement  
but that he would have to have paid half the total amount payable under the 
agreement, which was £6,705.09. Santander Consumer Finances account notes 
show that a settlement figure was sent to Mr J in November 2019 and that an annual 
statement was sent to him in February 2020. The notes from the early March 2020 
call show that he was told that he wouldnt be able to terminate the agreement unless 
hed paid half of the total amount due under the agreement. I consider that Mr J 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, at that time that he hadnt paid half of the 
total amount due under the agreement and that he couldnt voluntarily terminate his 
agreement without making a further payment to Santander Consumer Finance.
Mr J bought the second car after the early March 2020 conversation with Santander 
Consumer Finance so, at the time that he bought that car, I consider that he knew, or 
ought reasonably to have known, that he needed to make a payment to Santander Consumer Finance to voluntarily terminate his agreement. Mr J hasnt asked 
Santander Consumer Finance to voluntarily terminate his agreement, he still has the 
car but he says that he hasnt used it since March 2020, and hes not made any 
payments to Santander Consumer Finance since then.
Santander Consumer Finance accepts that it hadnt provided full information about 
Mr Js potential liability and didnt clarify the amount that was payable during the call 
in January 2020. It also accepted that it hadnt listened to that call and contacted Mr J 
as it said that it would. Those errors will have caused some distress and 
inconvenience  and Santander Consumer Finance has offered to pay £50 
compensation to Mr J  but I dont consider that he bought the car as a result of 
those errors. I consider that that was a decision that he made after the early March 
2020 call and that he did so knowing that he might have to make a payment to 
voluntarily terminate the conditional sale agreement.
I sympathise with Mr J for the difficulties that hes experienced and the issues that he 
now faces as a result of the decisions that hes made  but Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Santander 
Consumer Finance to treat the agreement as if it had been voluntarily terminated or 
to remove any of the adverse information that its recorded on his credit file.
I suggest that Mr J contacts Santander Consumer Finance to discuss his options 
under the agreement. He should also update it about his financial difficulties and try 
to agree an affordable repayment arrangement with it for the amount that he owes 
under the agreement. Its required to respond to any financial difficulties that hes 
experiencing positively and sympathetically.
Santander Consumer Finance has apologised for the errors that it made and offered 
to pay £50 compensation to Mr J for the distress and inconvenience that hed been 
caused. I consider that that was a fair and reasonable offer for it to make at that time 
and Im not persuaded that it would now be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
increase its offer of compensation or to take any other action in response to Mr Js 
complaint. If it hasnt already done so, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable 
for it to now pay that compensation to Mr J.
Subject to any further representations by Mr J or Santander Consumer Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. Santander Consumer 
Finance has accepted my provisional decision and Mr J has responded to it in detail. He has 
described what happened and says, in summary, that:
Santander Consumer Finance clearly told him in January 2020 that he could end the 
agreement and hand the car back without the need for any payment as hed already 
reached the point where the agreement had covered 50% of the agreements value  
so he believed what hed been told and relied on it;
he wasnt asked to put in a formal written request to finish his agreement - otherwise 
he would have done so and the sole reason for the call that he made to Santander 
Consumer Finance in March 2020 was to voluntary terminate the agreement;
he was told during the January 2020 call about the late payment fees and hed 
requested their help and assistance due to his then financial difficulty - but he doesnt 
understand what bearing this has on his complaint;
he said that whilst his complaint was being handled he would wait for its outcome as 
he thought that, after it had listened to the call recording, it would let him follow 
through on the clear advice that he was given in January 2020; he was advised by a Citizens Advice office to follow the complaint process with 
Santander Consumer Finance and this service but not to use the car as putting extra 
wear and tear and mileage on it might alter its value;
he purchased a replacement car that he needed to allow him to work, he didnt ask to 
hand the car back  that was volunteered by Santander Consumer Finance as a way 
out of this mess, but hes now in a much worse and detrimental position due 
completely to advice that he received; and
Santander should accept that the information it provided was incorrect and it started 
a catalogue of errors and problems and should either go ahead on the basis of the 
information provided to him in January 2020 or provide him with a pathway out of this 
drawn out mess similar to our investigators recommendations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. I consider 
that it was reasonable for Mr J to conclude from his January 2020 call with Santander 
Consumer Finance that he could return the car and end the agreement with nothing further 
to pay. If hed taken action, such as buying another car, relying on that information and 
without being given any different information by Santander Consumer Finance, my decision 
on his complaint might be different and I might be agreeing with our investigators 
recommendations.
But Mr J had a call with Santander Consumer Finance in early March 2020 during which it 
said that he wouldnt be able to terminate the agreement unless hed paid half of the total 
amount due under the agreement. That was different to the information that hed been given 
in January 2020 and, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I consider that Mr J 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, at that time that he hadnt paid half of the total 
amount due under the agreement and that he couldnt voluntarily terminate his agreement 
without making a further payment to Santander Consumer Finance.
Mr J says that he thought that, after it had listened to the recording of the January 2020 call, 
Santander Consumer Finance would let him follow through on the clear advice that he was 
given in January 2020. But I dont consider that that was a reasonable conclusion for him to 
make at that time. Hed been told that he wouldnt be able to terminate the agreement unless 
hed paid half of the total amount due under the agreement and I consider that he ought 
reasonably to have known that he hadnt done so.
Mr J bought the second car after the early March 2020 conversation with Santander 
Consumer Finance so, at the time that he bought that car, I consider that he knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, that he might need to make a payment to Santander Consumer 
Finance to voluntarily terminate his agreement. I dont consider that it was reasonable for 
him to conclude at that time that he would be able to terminate the agreement without having 
to make a further payment to Santander Consumer Finance.
The information that Mr J was given in the January 2020 call wasnt complete or correct but 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Santander Consumer 
Finance to allow Mr J to return his car and end his agreement with nothing further to pay. As 
I said in my provisional decision, I sympathise with Mr J for the difficulties that hes 
experienced and the issues that he now faces as a result of the decisions that hes made  
but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Santander Consumer Finance to treat the agreement as if it had been voluntarily terminated or to remove any of the adverse information that its recorded on his credit file. 
Mr J still has the car (though he says that he hasnt used it since March 2020), I dont 
consider that hes asked Santander Consumer Finance to voluntarily terminate his 
agreement, his agreement hasnt been terminated and he hasnt made any payments to 
Santander Consumer Finance since March 2020.
I suggest that Mr J contacts Santander Consumer Finance to discuss his options under the 
agreement. He should also update it about his financial difficulties and try to agree an 
affordable repayment arrangement with it for the amount that he owes under the agreement. 
Its required to respond to any financial difficulties that hes experiencing positively and 
sympathetically. 
Santander Consumer Finance has apologised for the errors that it made and offered to pay 
£50 compensation to Mr J for the distress and inconvenience that hed been caused. I 
consider that that was a fair and reasonable offer for it to make at that time and Im not 
persuaded that it would now be fair or reasonable for me to require it to increase its offer of 
compensation or to take any other action in response to Mr Js complaint. If it hasnt already 
done so, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to now pay that compensation 
to Mr J.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont hold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman