DRN-3883242
The complaint
Ms J has complained about esure Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Ms J made a claim under her home insurance policy alongside a claim under her home 
emergency policy that has been considered separately after she had a leak from her 
bathroom that caused damage to her kitchen below.
There was a delay in the home emergency plumber attending culminating in the kitchen 
ceiling collapsing through water saturation. Ms J went onto make a claim under her home 
insurance policy for the damage caused to her kitchen ceiling, units, floor and electrics. 
esure paid Ms Js claim in relation to her ceiling, electrics and redecoration and offered a 
partial payment towards some of the kitchen doors it felt were water damaged. And it offered 
a contribution towards the other doors that werent damaged. But Ms J wasnt happy about 
this as she thought esure hadnt taken account of her damaged worktop, plinths and all the 
doors that were damaged following the leak and collapse of the ceiling, so she complained 
to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms J but didnt uphold her complaint. She thought that 
esure had acted reasonably in looking into her claim. She highlighted that it wasnt 
responsible for the delay in attending, which was considered separately against Ms Js home 
emergency provider, and that it had acted fairly in gaining a building validation report and 
acting in line with it.
As Ms J didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think that the complaint should be partly upheld.
Although I can understand esures position I dont think it has provided sufficient evidence to 
support its stance. Ill explain why.
In summary, esure has offered to pay Ms J for some of the doors that were damaged by the 
leak and ceiling collapse and a contribution towards the others that werent damaged. While 
this position isnt unreasonable Ms J has argued that additional doors were damaged 
alongside her plinths and her kitchen worktop.
I note that esure has said it will consider damage to Ms Js plinths subject to her providing a 
quotation. However, its own engineer, who attended Ms Js property, said The ceiling has 
partially collapsed and there is secondary damage to the kitchen units. Moisture is detected 
in the floor covering and the plinths. So it is clear that the plinths were damaged and esure 
should have considered this originally. And it is clear from the photographs that the units on 
the floor are likely to be damaged if the flooring and plinths are, and its engineer has 
suggested that there is secondary damage to the kitchen units.
While this matter has been with me for consideration Ms J has been trying to get an expert 
to consider the damage to her kitchen including her damaged worktop. Ive seen a video of 
the uneven worktop and it is possible this was caused by the leak and that it has warped 
over time. But Ms J has struggled to get anyone to attend her property to provide any further 
comment or evidence.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable way to advance this complaint is for esure to 
appoint an independent expert to attend Ms Js property and report back their findings on 
what damage is related to the water leak. They can comment on how many doors were 
water damaged and whether the surrounding housing units and plinths were damaged. They 
can also consider whether the kitchen worktop damage is related to the leak which caused 
the ceiling to give way. And esure can then cost and pay for the damage identified.
I note esure hasnt paid Ms J anything in relation to the repair of her kitchen despite her 
providing some evidence in support of her position and it hasnt commented on the 
quotations she gained which our investigator also provided copies of. And I note esure 
suggested to Ms J that it would proceed with a cosmetic repair company during the early 
stages of the claim but didnt really advance this. As such, I think esure should also pay Ms J 
£100 compensation for the clear stress and ongoing hassle she has faced in having to deal 
with this and have her kitchen in a poor condition for a prolonged period of time.
Replies
Ms J indicated that she was happy with the position outlined within the provisional decision. 
While esure said it didnt agree as it didnt believe it should have to gain an independent 
opinion just because Ms J couldnt gain one of her own when it was happy with the position it 
had already outlined. Ultimately, esure was adamant that the problem with the worktop 
wasnt linked to the escape of water claim and it said the worktop was bone dry and not 
affected by the water. And it said that it had issued a payment to Ms J in March 2022, so it 
was incorrect to say that we havent issued payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be partly upheld. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to esure, but Ill explain why. 
I know esure feels there isnt a problem with the worktop that is linked to the water leak at 
Ms Js property. But it hasnt commented on the other issues identified in my provisional 
decision in relation to secondary damage to the kitchen units and moisture detection to the 
plinths and so, most likely, the other units that are on the kitchen floor. These issues havent 
been fully addressed in its settlement of the claim to date and I think they should have been 
which is why Ive suggested these issues be considered independently now. It wouldnt be 
fair to leave this to Ms J to advance. 
esure has explained that it has made payment to Ms J in March 2022 in relation to part of 
the claim, but this wasnt clear from the information originally provided or from our 
investigators follow up enquiries. This can be taken into account in the finalisation of the 
claim. But there wasnt any substantial comment about the quotations Ms J provided in 
relation to her claim either and there should have been. 
So, I still feel the fair and reasonable way to advance this complaint is for esure to appoint 
an independent expert to report back their findings on what damage is related to the water leak. They can comment on how many doors were water damaged and whether the 
surrounding housing units and plinths were damaged. And it makes sense to consider 
whether the kitchen worktop damage is related to the leak which caused the ceiling to give 
way. And esure should pay Ms J £100 in compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to appoint an independent expert to attend Ms Js property and report 
back what damage is related to the water leak and pay for the damage identified. And pay 
£100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman