DRN-2789544
The complaint
Mr L complains that Alphabet (GB) Ltd unfairly applied damage re-charges when he returned 
his vehicle at the end of a leasing agreement.
What happened
Mr L had a four-year lease agreement with Alphabet. He entered into the agreement in 
October 2016. He contacted Alphabet towards the end of the agreement and arranged for 
the vehicle to be collected. Alphabet collected the vehicle in September 2020.
Mr L says that Alphabet then sent him an invoice asking him to pay £275 for damage to the 
inside of the boot loading area. Mr L didnt think he should have to pay this amount. He 
complained to Alphabet.  He said hed returned the vehicle in great condition, with lower 
mileage than set out in the agreement and prior to the end of the lease agreement. He 
thought Alphabet shouldve taken this into account when considering how much he should 
pay.
Mr L said he hadnt caused the damage to the boot of the car. Alphabet needed to prove that 
the vehicle was free from damage when he got it  and he said it hadnt done that. Alphabet 
also hadnt put a protective covering over the boot, which was what other providers did. 
Mr L also said that Alphabet didnt carry out any repairs before it auctioned the vehicle. So, 
he didnt think it was fair that he should pay for repairs that hadnt been carried out. He 
wanted to know what price the vehicle had been sold at auction for. Alphabet didnt provide 
that information to him. He said this meant it hadnt shown that the damage had reduced the 
value of the car by £275 or at all.
Alphabet investigated his complaint. It said that a damage re-charge of £275 had been 
applied because of damage to the valance rear. The damage did not fall within what could 
be considered as fair wear and tear. It referred to the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines which said that a dent over 15mm in diameter fell outside 
fair wear and tear. It told him he could refer his complaint for conciliation to the BVRLA.
Mr L referred his complaint to the BVRLA Conciliation Service. It decided that the dents in 
the boot loading area were greater than 15mm in diameter. It said this was unacceptable as 
fair wear and tear. It also said that Mr L was responsible for damage that occurred during the 
lease period. So, the charge was justified and correctly raised by Alphabet.
Mr L wasnt satisfied. He referred his complaint to our service. Alphabet said that our service 
couldnt investigate the complaint because the subject matter of the complaint had already 
been dealt with by a comparable dispute resolution process.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She agreed that we couldnt look into the part of 
the complaint that had been dealt with by the BVRLA Conciliation Service. But, she said 
there were parts of the complaint which it hadnt dealt with. In particular it hadnt dealt with 
what Mr L had said about the pricing and fairness. So, for example Mr L had said that he 
hadnt been given information about the auction; he returned the car early and the repairs 
hadnt been carried out.
Our investigator considered these parts of Mr Ls complaint. She thought that the charge 
was reasonable for the work that wouldve been required to fix the damage to the boot 
loading area. Mr L couldve arranged to carry out these repairs himself before the vehicle 
was collected  but he hadnt done so.
She then considered the BVRLA guidelines. These said that charges could still be applied at 
the end of a lease in cases where the leasing company decided, for commercial reasons, not 
to repair the damage before selling the vehicle. The fact that there was lower mileage on the 
vehicle than set out in the agreement didnt change the terms about the right to charge for 
damages.
Mr L had returned the car early. That was his choice. So, having considered everything she 
decided that Alphabet had acted fairly and reasonably.
Our investigator also commented on what Mr L had said about being given incorrect details 
for BVRLA. Alphabet had explained that the reason for this was because BVRLA had 
changed its contact details and Alphabet hadnt updated this on their systems. Our 
investigator noted that Mr L had been given the correct details for our service. So, she didnt 
change her view about how the complaint should be resolved.
Mr L didnt agree. He said it was common sense to say that the loading area of a car might 
get damaged. Alphabet had failed to put a protective covering over the area and Mr L wasnt 
permitted to modify the vehicle. He also said that nowhere in the BVRLA guidelines did it say 
anything about loading areas specifically. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
Ombudsman.
So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything here, Ive decided for mainly the same reasons as our 
investigator, not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr L  so, Ill explain 
why.
Id just point out at the outset that I asked Alphabet and Mr L to provide me with a copy of 
the leasing agreement thatd been entered into by Mr L. Neither party has been able to 
provide a copy. Mr L says he doesnt think he was provided with a copy at the time. In these 
circumstances, Ive had to consider other evidence to see what the leasing agreement would 
most likely have said. 
Alphabet has provided the following information about the agreement which is recorded on 
its systems. It says this shows the following details about the agreement:
- Contract hire agreement
- Facility amount - £6143.62
- Car description
- 48 months duration
- Date of agreement - 12 October 2016
- Mileage allowance 60,000All of this information is in line with the details provided by both Mr L and Alphabet. So, 
theres no dispute regarding these aspects.
Alphabet says that because this was a standard leasing agreement it wouldve contained 
the usual clauses such as the need for Mr L to have taken reasonable care of the car and 
the fact that Alphabet could levy charges at the end of the agreement. Ive looked at the 
BVRLA website which includes information about what happens at the end of a leasing 
contract. This makes clear that it is standard industry practice to have end of lease charges. 
These cover items which are not regarded as fair wear and tear. So, Im satisfied on 
balance, that even though I havent been provided with a copy of the agreement, it wouldve 
included the usual charging clauses. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service isn't permitted to consider every complaint that's brought 
to it. We're governed by the DISP rules which can be found in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Handbook (available online).
One of those rules is DISP 3.3.4A which states:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman 
considers that :

(7) the subject matter of the complaint has been dealt with, or is being dealt with, by 
a comparable independent complaints scheme or dispute-resolution process.
Mr L has already referred his complaint about the charges to the BVRLA Conciliation 
Service and it has made a determination that the charges were justified and correctly raised 
by Alphabet. So, because  the BVRLA Conciliation Service has already dealt with the 
subject matter of that part of Mr Ls complaint, the Rules allow us to dismiss that part of his 
complaint without considering its merits. Thats what Ive decided to do here. But, Ive also 
decided I can look into what hes said about the fairness of how he was treated by Alphabet 
when his leasing agreement ended. So, thats what Ive dealt with in this decision.
Mr L has raised a number of points which he says support his argument that its unfair for 
Alphabet to apply a damage re-charge of £275. So, Ill consider each of those points 
separately:
Alphabet hasnt been able to prove that Mr L caused the damage to the boot loading area;
Ive looked at the delivery docket completed when the car was delivered to Mr L in October 
2016. This shows that the car was brand new. There was a declaration which stated the 
vehicle was in good condition, free from damage inside and out..
Mr L says the signature on this declaration is not his. But, it is the case that he did take 
delivery of the vehicle and its likely if there was damage to the inside of the boot loading 
area he wouldve spotted it very soon after taking delivery. Theres nothing to indicate he 
reported any damage to the inside of the boot loading area at any time since he took delivery 
of the vehicle.
Ive also considered the fact that this was a new car. The pictures of the damage to the boot 
loading area indicate several dents and this suggests the damage occurred over a period of 
time. 
So, on balance, Im persuaded that the damage to the boot loading area took place after 
Mr L took delivery of the vehicle.Alphabet shouldve provided a protective covering  other providers do;
I can see the delivery docket included any optional extras Mr L had selected. Theres no 
evidence to suggest he asked for a protective covering for the boot loading area. And, after 
taking delivery of the vehicle, he wouldve noticed that a protective covering wasnt included 
as standard.
Mr L says he couldnt make any modifications to the vehicle as that wouldve been contrary 
to the agreement. But it wouldnt have been a breach of the agreement to ask the supplier to 
fit a protective covering to the boot loading area  if that was something Mr L had thought 
was needed.
So, I dont think Alphabet acted unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt provide a protective 
covering as standard.
The damage to the vehicle isnt specifically covered in the BVRLA guidelines  theres no 
reference to the boot loading area;
Ive looked at the BVRLA guidelines. A copy of these wouldve been provided to Mr L with 
his agreement and he was sent a link to the BVRLA Lease Car Fair Wear and Tear Guide 
(the Guide) when Alphabet contacted him with its pre-notification about collection of the 
vehicle.
Ive considered, in particular, the following wording in the Guide:
- (at page 13) Section entitled Paintwork vehicle body bumpers and trim
This section includes details about damage including dents. It states:
Dents of 15 mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no 
more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken
- (at page 19) Section entitled Door aperture, boot, boot liner and luggage area 
states:
Scratches on treads, sills and seals that reflect normal use are acceptable.
Torn or split floor coverings and damaged surrounding trim panels are not 
acceptable.
Having considered the information in the Guide, I am satisfied that the BVRLA guidelines do 
include damage to the boot loading area. And the BVRLA Conciliation Service has already 
determined that the damage to the boot loading area, in this case, was not included within its 
definition of fair wear and tear.
Alphabet didnt carry out any repairs to the vehicle before selling it
As Ive stated above, I havent been able to see a copy of the agreement. But, I have been 
able to consider the industry standard terms that apply to a leasing agreement. These are 
also referred to in the Guide mentioned above.
The Guide states that charges can still be applied even where the leasing company decides 
for commercial reasons not to repair the damage before the vehicle is sold. So, Im satisfied  
there was no obligation on Alphabet to carry out the repairs. It was still able to apply the 
charges.
Ive also considered the fact that Mr L couldve arranged for the repairs to be carried out 
himself. The pre-notification about collection made that clear. The Guide states that any repairs he arranged wouldve had to be completed to a professional standard and wouldve 
required the repairer to provide a transferable warranty. Mr L chose not to arrange the 
repairs himself.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied Alphabet was still able to apply the charges even 
though it didnt carry out the repairs before selling the vehicle.
Alphabet hasnt shown that the damage reduced the value of the vehicle (taking into account 
the condition and mileage of the vehicle when Mr L returned it)
The Guide states that the purpose of the end of lease charges is to compensate the leasing 
company for the cost of rectifying damage  even where, as Ive mentioned above, it decides 
not to carry out the repairs before selling the vehicle. So, under the terms of the agreement 
Alphabet wouldve been entitled to apply the charges and there was no requirement for it to 
take into account any other factors that may have impacted on the overall valuation of the 
car.
Having considered the point Mr L has raised and the standard provisions in a car lease, I 
dont think Alphabet acted unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt base the end of lease 
charges on the overall value of the car when it was returned to it.
Mr L has pointed out that Alphabet refused to give him details about when or where the car 
would be sold. But, as Ive stated above, the end of lease charge was not based upon the 
value of the car. So, I dont think Alphabet wouldve been obliged to provide this information 
to him.
Mr  L was given incorrect contact details for the  BVRLA Conciliation Service
It is not disputed that Alphabet didnt provide up to date contact details for the BVRLA 
Conciliation Service when it issued its final response to Mr L. But, it is the case that he was 
still able to approach the BVRLA Conciliation Service and it was able to consider his 
complaint. The pre-notification about the collection which Alphabet sent to Mr L did include 
the link to the BVRLA guide. So, having thought about it, I dont think Mr L experienced any 
material inconvenience as a result of the inaccurate information he was given in the final 
response letter.
Having considered everything here, Im not persuaded that Alphabet has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. I dont require it to have to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Alphabet (GB) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman