DRN-3071408
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as B has complained that Society of Lloyd's changed the wording of 
its policy in June 2020 which meant that it wasnt able to claim for losses related to Covid-19. 
Mr B, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf. 
For ease of reading, any reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriters. 
What happened
B held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. When the policy renewed in 
June 2020 Lloyds amended the wording of the policy to exclude cover for notifiable 
diseases. 
B complained to Lloyds as it didnt think it was fair that Lloyds could amend the policy while 
the pandemic was ongoing. B said there could be further restrictions placed on its business 
and the wording of the policy meant it wouldnt be able to claim, whereas policyholders with 
later renewal dates would still be able to claim under the previous wording. B was unhappy 
that the cost of the policy had increased by around £200 when the cover had reduced. 
Lloyds said it was able to make a commercial decision based on the risks it wanted to cover 
and it was for B to decide if it wanted to accept those terms. Lloyds said it had applied a 
general increase in cost across the scheme and that an increase in Bs stock sum insured 
had also increased the premium. 
As B was unhappy with Lloyds response, it brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he thought it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to decide which risks it wanted to cover.
B asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at complaints about which risks an insurer wants to cover and at what cost, its 
important to set out the role of this service and myself. It is not for me to tell a business what 
it should cover or charge, this is a commercial decision that it is entitled to make. But I can 
check that a customer is treated fairly when an insurer makes this decision.
Lloyds said it made a commercial decision to exclude cover for notifiable diseases at 
renewal. It said the policy is a 12 month contract and at the renewal of the policy a new 
contract is formed where it can decide if it wants to offer cover on the same basis or change 
the terms. In this case, Lloyds decided to make changes to the cover it wanted to offer, as it 
didnt want to cover any claims arising out of notifiable diseases.
While I can understand why Bs unhappy that its renewal date fell while restrictions relating 
to Covid-19 were ongoing, Lloyds was entitled to decide if it wanted to exclude certain risks 
from being covered when the policy renewed. I dont find it unusual that Lloyds excluded 
cover for claims relating to notifiable diseases or that it chose to do this while Covid-19 
restrictions were ongoing. I cant fairly require Lloyds to continue to offer cover for a risk that 
it has decided to exclude. 
Lloyds has explained that the reason the cost of Bs policy went up was because of an 
increase in Bs stock sum insured as well as a general increase in cost across the scheme. 
I dont find it unusual for the cost of a policy to increase when there is an increased risk to an 
insurer  in this case more stock being insured. And while I can understand Bs frustration at 
Lloyds increasing the cost of the policy, Im satisfied that it applied a general price increase 
to this type of policy. So, I think Lloyds treated B fairly as it treated B the same as its other 
policyholders. I understand that as B was a longstanding customer Lloyds looked to reduce 
this increase for B as a gesture of goodwill. I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
I can see that Lloyds made both the exclusion for notifiable diseases and the cost of the 
policy clear to B at the renewal. It was then for B to decide whether it wanted to buy the 
policy or look for cover elsewhere which it would consider better value. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome B was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly uphold Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman