DRN-1905040
The complaint
Miss Bs unhappy Allianz Insurance plc have turned down her claim and added exclusions to 
her equine insurance policy.
A representative has been used to bring this complaint, but for simplicity Ill just refer to 
Miss B in this decision.
What happened
In January 2019 Miss B noticed her horse had difficulty walking so called out her vets. The 
vets submitted the claim for Miss B in April 2019, and this was turned down by Allianz 
explaining there were pre-existing conditions related to lameness of her horse. Allianz said a 
visit in December 2018 showed there were clinical signs of lameness, and had Miss B told 
them this, theyd have placed an exclusion on her policy. Allianz added several exclusions to 
her policy at this time. Miss B said the reason for the vet visiting in December 2018 was due 
to sinusitis, not lameness. And there was no mention of lameness in the report it just said 
theres a hind limb problem. Miss B added her horse doesnt present in a typical manner 
when experiencing sinusitis and this has been documented by other vets. 
The exclusions Allianz added to Miss Bs policy at this time were:
Conditions causing the clinical signs of lameness, hindlimbs
Neurological disorders
Mouth and oral disorders
Sinusitis
Because of the claim being turned down, and the exclusions being placed on her policy, she 
complained. Allianz replied to Miss Bs complaint saying they asked her a number of 
questions about her horses veterinary history. They explained its because theyd place 
exclusions on Miss Bs policy if told about them based on the risk the horse presents  this is 
to both underwrite the policy correctly, and make sure Miss B knows what is and isnt likely 
to be covered. Allianz added Miss Bs horse had shown clinical signs of lameness before the 
policy was taken out on 11 January 2019, so it was right they turned down the claim. 
Miss B got back in touch with Allianz explaining she didnt think this was fair  partly because 
shed told them about the sinusitis. Allianz reviewed Miss Bs further comments and decided 
to remove the sinusitis as she had told them when taking out the policy. They also amended 
the exclusion for mouth and oral disorders to just applying this exclusion to the three teeth 
mentioned in the vets reports. But Allianz said the remaining two exclusions  conditions 
causing the clinical signs of lameness hindlimbs, and neurological disorders  would remain.
Unhappy with this Miss B asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so but 
said as were not specialists we rely on the information provided to us, and this information 
showed Allianz had acted fairly in turning down the claim and adding exclusions.
Miss B didnt accept this, she said the insurer was relying on a note from the vets which isnt 
correct as the problems with the lameness were due to the sinusitis. Because of this, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to set out that were not specialists in horse physiology, so like our 
investigator explained, we rely on information provided to us unless theres reason to doubt 
it.
In order to answer this complaint, I think there are two different issues to cover  the claim 
being turned down, and the exclusions being applied.
Claim being turned down
Allianz have turned down the claim saying that clinical signs existed of the lameness before 
the policy started.
Ive checked the policy, and it says, under pre-existing conditions, An injury or illness that 
has the same diagnosis or clinical signs before cover started. And the policy says they wont 
pay out for treatment for a pre-existing condition. 
Miss B has explained she doesnt believe this is a pre-existing condition and has said Allianz 
are basing this off of one line from the vets report in December 2018 when this only related 
to sinusitis.
Ive looked at this report. The relevant section says, HI problem may require work up but 
bute trial first, advise hand walking exercise-and turn out as much as possible over 
weekend. This comes at the end of the report and is mentioned after the sinusitis diagnosis 
and suggestions for treatment have been made. So, it does appear to be a separate issue 
thats being recorded. And the information Ive seen does link those vets comments directly 
to lameness as a potential issue.
With that in mind, Im satisfied lameness was noticed as a clinical sign before the policy was 
taken out in January 2019, and Allianz have acted fairly by turning down the claim for a pre-
existing condition.
Exclusions added to the policy
Ive seen Allianzs underwriting guide  this explains what they will and wont cover for 
specific conditions. I cant share it, as its commercially sensitive, but Im satisfied with the 
information it contains.
For the exclusion relating to lameness on the hindlimbs as Im satisfied this was a pre-
existing condition then theyve added this exclusion fairly. Had Allianz been told about this, 
then according to their underwriting guide they would have excluded this condition.For the neurological disorders this is mentioned in vets reports in December 2018. Its 
recorded that the horse had problems previously, and that Miss B was concerned this was a 
similar issue. The report completed by the vets on 27 December 2018 says they dont think 
theres a neurological issue, but the report the next day says its a possibility. According to 
the information contained in the underwriting guide, Im satisfied this means Allianz would 
have placed an exclusion on the policy theyd been told this.
In relation to the exclusion placed for mouth and oral disorders originally this would have 
meant Miss B couldnt claim for anything related to mouth or oral disorders. Allianz have 
since amended this to just the three teeth mentioned in a vets report in March 2012. This is 
in line with Allianzs underwriting guide and is fair on the basis her horse hasnt displayed 
any problems with other teeth before taking out the policy.
And Allianz made an error not adding sinusitis to the policy but have since removed that. I 
think thats right, particularly as Miss B got in touch after taking out the policy to confirm no 
exclusions had been applied at that point.
Summary
For the reasons Ive explained I think Allianz have turned down the claim fairly, and the 
exclusions now added to the policy have been fairly added. 
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman