DRN-2070221
The complaint
Miss W complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited cancelled her motor insurance 
policy without her knowledge. 
What happened
Hastings said they cancelled Miss Ws policy because she didnt pay a premium and didnt 
reply to their emails and letters about it. But Miss W said that she hadnt heard from Hastings 
about the cancellation. She wanted them to revoke the cancellation and reinstate her policy 
so that it wouldnt affect her future insurance.  
The investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld as she thought that 
Hastings hadnt acted unfairly in cancelling Miss Ws policy. Miss W didnt agree so her case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W said that she usually payed her premium annually, but she updated her vehicle on 
the policy which lead to a small additional premium. Hastings told her theyd deduct that from 
the payment card whose details they had. But then Hastings cancelled her policy for non-
payment of the additional premium. They said theyd sent her several letters and emails 
about it and had warned her that they might cancel the policy. But she didnt reply so they 
did cancel it. 
Miss W said that she hadnt received their emails and letters and the first she knew of the 
cancellation was when she queried Hastingss premium refund into her account. She said 
she would never have driven uninsured.  She felt that it was an administrative error and 
wasnt her fault. She was unhappy that Hastings wouldnt reinstate the policy. 
It seems that Miss W emailed Hastings about the additional premium from an email address 
( the new address ) which was different from the email address Hastings had on their 
records for her ( the old address). However Hastings sent their emails about her policy 
change and the additional premium to Miss Ws old address. This included emails saying 
that Hastings had requested the additional premium from her card, but payment was 
unsuccessful , and that if the additional premium wasnt paid, Hastings may cancel the 
policy. 
Miss W says that she didnt receive these emails. She felt that because Hastings had made 
some communication with her via her new email address, Hastings should have carried on 
using that address. She said no-one had told her Hastings would use her old email address 
unless she updated it on Hastingss system. 
But Hastings said that their customers often use multiple alternative email addresses, for 
example home and work addresses, and though Hastings might reply to these, they wouldnt 
assume that one email address should replace the email address on their records unless a 
customer asked for that, and Miss W hadnt asked. I think thats reasonable. 
Hastings have shown us that theyd written to Miss W several times, making it clear that if 
she didnt pay the outstanding balance on her policy, theyd cancel the policy. Theyve 
shown us copies of these letters and their records show that they are correctly addressed 
and that they posted them. The investigator has sent Miss W copies of these. She said she 
and received these letters and thinks that Hastings hadnt done enough to prove they sent 
them. But given the evidence Hastings have shown us, we think it more likely than not that 
Hastings did send them. That means that Hastings followed a fair process before cancelling. 
Miss W said she didnt take the cancellation lightly and phoned Hastings as soon as she 
knew there was a problem. And as shed been a loyal customer for years , she felt that it 
was unfair of them not to retake the payment and reinstate her policy then. But as this was a 
few weeks after the cancellation, Hastings wouldnt reinstate her policy, and I dont think that 
unreasonable . Thats a matter for their commercial judgement and not something in which 
we would normally interfere. They felt she should have noticed that she hadnt made the 
payment. But she said not everyone checks their financial statements all the time, and shed 
had some health problems then too. She felt Hastings should have done more. She said 
shed asked them to call her if there as a problem with the payment. But Hastings said they 
hadnt agreed to that and its not their process to phone about it. She also felt that they 
should have phoned her or written to her recorded delivery before cancelling. But again we 
cant say that Hastings should have done this. Insurers can choose what commercial 
processes they follow for cancellation, and we wont interfere if we think they are fair. And 
we think that Hastings sending Miss W emails to the email address shed given them, and 
letters to her home address, is a sufficiently fair process.
I can see that Miss W is unhappy about the cancellation and its effects. And I think its very 
unfortunate that this happened. However I have to decide whether Hastings did anything 
wrong. Hastings have shown us that they followed a fair process to contact Miss W, and as I 
dont think they have been unfair or unreasonable, I dont ask them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
