DRN-3629991
The complaint
Ms C complains about the advice Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited 
(Acumen) gave to her to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Ms Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for 
insolvent DB pension schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for 
their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original 
schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme. Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer 
their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Ms Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. Members were given until 11 December 2017 (later 
extended to 22 December) to make their choice between the PPF and BSPS2. 
On 16 October 2017 the BSPS administrators provided Ms C with an updated summary of 
the transfer value of her scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits 
had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £89,333.
Ms C remained concerned about what the recent announcements by her employer meant for 
the security of her pension. She contacted Acumen for advice and met with it in early 
November 2017. 
Acumen conducted a fact-find with her and an assessment of her attitude to risk. At that time 
Ms C was 32, living with her partner, they had two children under six and owned their own 
home. She was working part time and earning around £11,000 a year. 
After obtaining a transfer value analysis report Acumen met with Ms C again the same 
month. It advised her to transfer her DB funds into a named personal pension. Ms C signed 
the forms for the transfer to go ahead on 17 November 2017.
On 1 December 2017 Acumen sent Ms C its suitability report setting out the reasons for its 
recommendation. Amongst other things it said it had assessed her attitude to risk to be low 
medium. She was an inexperienced investor who was not comfortable with investing. It 
said the growth rates required (the critical yields) to match the benefits from the DB scheme 
were unlikely to be achievable. So from an investment perspective a transfer was likely not 
feasible. But it said Ms Cs desire to live on a lower income, in order to have flexible 
access to her funds and greater death benefits were of a higher priority for her.
In 2022 Ms C complained, via the Financial Ombudsman Service, that Acumens advice was 
not suitable for her. Acumen replied to the complaint in June 2022. It didnt uphold it. 
Amongst other things Acumen said it had fulfilled its regulatory requirements. It said it had 
taken reasonable steps to satisfy itself that its advice to transfer was suitable. It couldnt 
recommend Ms C join the BSPS2 as it had yet to be established at the time of the advice 
and there was no certainty it would be. It added that the PPF was widely (and correctly) 
considered to be an undesirable outcome.
One of our Investigators looked into Ms Cs complaint. He didnt think Acumen's advice was 
suitable for her. He recommended her complaint be upheld. He said Acumen should 
establish if Ms C had suffered a financial loss as a result of its unsuitable advice and if so 
pay her compensation, including £300 to address her distress and inconvenience.
Acumen didnt reply to the Investigators findings. So, because things couldnt be resolved 
informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumen's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave. I've summarised my 
findings below.
When doing so I've been mindful that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
says in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Acumen should have only considered recommending a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate it was in Ms Cs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
My findings 
When it gave its advice Acumen said that transferring to a personal pension was unlikely to 
achieve the relevant critical yields in order to match the benefits of the DB scheme. It also 
noted that from an investment perspective a transfer wasnt feasible. In other words 
Acumen recognised that transferring would most likely mean Ms C would be worse off in 
retirement by doing so. I agree with Acumen's analysis here. But I dont think it did enough to 
make it clear to Ms C how much she was likely to be worse off by nor did it give her enough 
information on which to make an informed decision.
Acumen said the critical yields to match the benefits from the BSPS at age 65 was 6.7% and 
5.1% to match the PPF benefits. But Acumen didnt provide critical yields if Ms C decided to 
take the maximum tax free cash (TFC) lump sum and a reduced pension. Also Acumen 
compared the benefits from the BSPS against the personal pension. But continuing in the 
BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Ms C. She either needed to allow her funds to 
move to the PPF or to opt to in the BSPS2. 
By that time the details of the BSPS2 were available. So I think Acumen should have 
provided a comparison of benefits from the personal pension against those from the BSPS2. 
Had it done so, given what I know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the 
BSPS2 benefits were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF at age 65. But 
more likely than not it would be nearer to the BSPS critical yield. But as Acumen didnt set 
that out I dont think it gave her all the information she needed.
In addition I've noted that in Acumen's response to Ms Cs complaint it said that transferring 
would allow Ms C to retire at age 58. Its not clear what informed Acumen to make that 
comment. Thats because theres nothing in the fact-find that says Ms C was looking to retire 
early, nor does the suitability report refer to her retiring at age 58. However, our Investigator 
spoke with Ms C. She told him that while early retirement would be preferable, and perhaps 
at age 60, she didnt have specific plans. 
But, if taking early retirement had been a key objective for Ms C then its notable that 
Acumen didnt give her any figures for what her entitlements would be from any scheme at 
any age if she took early retirement. And if it had done so its likely the critical yields would 
have been higher than for retirement at age 65. Thats because the funds would have been 
invested in a personal pension for a shorter time before Ms C accessed them and so would 
have had less time to grow. Those funds would also then have needed to support her for a 
longer period in retirement. That means the investments would have needed higher returns 
to match the guaranteed benefits from the DB scheme from an earlier age. But Acumen 
didnt give Ms C any of that information. So if it believed early retirement was a genuine 
objective for her then it didnt give her enough information from which she could make an 
informed decision.
In any event, whatever age Ms C planned to retire at, I agree with Acumen's assessment 
that she was likely to be worse off by transferring to a personal pension than she was from leaving her benefits in the DB scheme whether that went into the PPF or if she opted into the 
BSPS2. For that reason alone I dont think a transfer was in her best interests. So I've gone 
on to consider the other key reasons that Acumen cited for recommending a transfer.
Acumen said Ms C was prepared to accept a lower income in retirement in order to give her 
flexible access to her benefits in the manner she chose. Its true to say that Ms C couldnt 
have had the same level of flexible access to her DB funds as she could from a personal 
pension. While she could have chosen to take those early, if shed wanted to take TFC, then 
she would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular income from her 
pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow her to draw down funds as she saw fit. 
But while I can see why that might have been an attractive prospect for her, Im not 
persuaded that Ms C had any concrete need to vary her income throughout retirement. But, 
if she believed she did there was no requirement for her to give up the safeguarded benefits 
from the DB scheme in order to have some flexible access to retirement funds. 
Acumen noted that Ms C and her employer had begun contributing to a recently set up 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. Ms C and her employer were together 
contributing around 16% of Ms Cs salary to that pension. She could have anticipated 
continuing to contribute to that pension (or a similar one if she were to change jobs in the 
future) for the remainder of her working life. And given she was still only 32 years old that 
could have been for another 35 years until state pension age. The earliest Ms C could take 
early retirement from the DB scheme or a personal pension would be age 571, around 25 
years away; so by the time she reached retirement age, her DC pension should have built a 
sizeable pot.
The nature of a DC pension means this already provided Ms C with flexibility  she wasnt 
committed to take its benefits in a set way. Ms C could have taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income she took from it according to her needs. So, I think if Ms C 
retained her DB pension, this combined with her new workplace pension, would have likely 
given her the flexible access to pension funds if that was what she needed.
In addition, if Acumen had advised Ms C to join the BSPS2 and she had later decided she 
needed greater flexibility than the scheme provided, then she could have chosen to transfer 
from that scheme nearer to her retirement age. And I think this was something that she could 
have explored closer to her intended retirement age; it wasnt a decision she needed to 
make straightaway.
I've noted Acumen said in its reply to Ms Cs complaint, that at the time of the advice it 
couldn't recommend a transfer to the BSPS2 because there was no certainty it would come 
into existence. I accept the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead. But details of the 
scheme had been provided, the time to choose exercise was ongoing, and all the 
communications from the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the BSPS2 operating 
conditions would be met. So, I think Acumen should have factored the benefits available 
through the BSPS2 into its analysis. But it didnt do so.
Acumen also said a transfer was suitable because the lump sum death benefits were better 
from a personal pension than from the DB scheme. It said the death benefits available from 
the personal pension were of a higher priority to Ms C than her income in retirement. That 
might have been the case. But Acumen was tasked with advising Ms C about what was best 
for her retirement not what would provide the greatest legacy for her beneficiaries if she 
died. 
1 That statutory age for early retirement will rise to age 57 from 2028, it is currently at age 55.I'm aware Ms C wasnt married at the time of the advice, so her partner couldnt have 
benefited from the spouses benefits the DB schemes offered. But Ms C was only 32 years 
old, and shes confirmed that she does have plans to marry in the future. So, the spouses 
benefits would become payable at that time. And, even if wedding plans were only a distant 
consideration, I think this is something that Acumen should have made clear to her.
Further, the DB scheme would pay a dependents benefit for Ms Cs children if she was 
unfortunate enough to die while they were still in education  up to age 23. So the death 
benefits the DB schemes offered could have been valuable to Ms Cs family in the event of 
her premature death.
In addition while Acumen said that the lump sum death benefits would be better under a 
personal pension that wasn't guaranteed. If Ms C had died immediately following the transfer 
then the CETV sum would have been paid to her beneficiaries as a death benefit. I 
understand that would most likely have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But, in 
reality, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. 
How much would remain in the fund on Ms Cs death depended on a number of factors. And 
there may not have been much left in Ms Cs personal pension if she lived a long life, the 
investments performed poorly, or if she took large sums from the fund early in her 
retirement. But I dont think Acumen was clear about this.
Further, I'm aware that Ms C had death in service cover from her employer. So that would 
have paid a lump sum in the event she died while still working for her employer. But, if she 
wanted to leave a legacy for her family, which didnt depend on her employment, investment 
returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, I think Acumen should 
have instead explored life insurance. I appreciate life insurance can be expensive. So, the 
starting point ought to have been for Acumen to ask Ms C how much she would ideally like 
to leave to her family, and it could have explored cover on a whole of life or term assurance 
basis. But there's little evidence it suggested this.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Ms C. Also I dont think Acumen properly explored the 
option of life insurance as an alternative with her. And ultimately Acumen should not have 
encouraged Ms C to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over her security in retirement.
I've also noted that, as well as saying that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed, Acumen said the 
PPF was considered to be an undesirable outcome. I understand that Ms C may have 
legitimately held concerns about how her employer had handled her pension and the 
prospect of entering the PPF. But it was Acumens role to objectively address those 
concerns. As I've already said, at the time, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being 
established. But even if not, the PPF would still provide Ms C with a guaranteed income, the 
possibility of early retirement and the option of accessing TFC. Ms C was unlikely to improve 
on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was most likely not as troubling as 
she might have thought, and I dont think any concerns she held about this meant that 
transferring was in her best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Ms Cs best interests to give up 
her DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Ms C would have insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the 
DB scheme. 
For the above reasons I think Acumen's advice to Ms C to transfer out of the DB scheme 
and into a personal pension was unsuitable for her as it was not in her best interests. So, I think Acumen should compensate her for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined 
benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms C, as far as possible, 
into the position She would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Ms C would 
most likely have remained in the DB scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if Acumen had 
given suitable advice. 
Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Acumen should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Ms C and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what 
Acumen based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Ms C has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Ms C 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Acumen should:
calculate and offer Ms C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Ms C before starting the redress calculation that:
- her redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest her redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her personal pension 
offer to calculate how much of any redress Ms C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Ms C accepts Acumens offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Ms C for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Ms Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Ms C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Acumen may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Ms Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Ms C the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Ms C the balance.
If Ms C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman