DRN-4088553
The complaint
Mr P complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
He says that HSBC didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a scam 
and would like HSBC to refund him the money he has lost as a result of the scam.
What happened
Mr P was searching online for an investment opportunity and came across GG. The website 
looked authentic and Mr P noted that it appeared to be endorsed by a well-known television 
programme.
Mr P entered his details onto the website and was contacted by GG. It persuaded him to 
invest in cryptocurrency through B (a legitimate crypto exchange).
Mr P was helped by GG using Anydesk to invest through B and pay this onto GG. His 
supposed profits were then displayed to him on an online portal (now known to be fake).
GG then told Mr P that in order to access his profits he would need to pay more money, and 
when Mr P refused to do so, he was told by GG that his account with it would be reviewed 
and he was presented with another opportunity to invest this time with a more experienced 
advisor at GG.
Mr P did not do so, and when he then decided he wanted to withdraw all the funds he had 
deposited, realised that all the money had gone.
He reported the scam to the police and HSBC and made a complaint. HSBC didnt uphold 
his complaint, so he brough it to this Service.
Our Investigator looked into things and thought that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld in 
part. 
Mr P accepted this, but HSBC did not, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part for broadly the same reasons 
as our Investigator. Ill explain why.
Was Mr P the victim of a scam?
Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied that Mr P was the victim of a scam here. He was 
contacted by a supposedly legitimate business GG after making an enquiry on its website.
GG was also supposedly endorsed by a well-known television programme, but this was not 
the case. GG also persuaded Mr P to download software onto his PC.
At the time of the scam, there was no warning on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
website about GG  however this has since been added, and so I dont think there is any 
doubt that GG was a scammer.
Mr P made the following payments as part of the scam.
Date Payment type Payee Amount
13 April 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
13 April 2021 Card Payment B £3,000
19 April 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
19 April 2021 Card Payment B £5,000
26 April 2021 Card Payment B £5,000
26 April 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
27 April 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
27 April 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
28 April 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
28 April 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
29 April 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
4 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
4 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
6 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
6 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
12 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
12 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
14 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
14 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
18 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
18 May 2021 Card Payment B £5,000
25 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,00025 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
27 May 2021 Card Payment B £5,000
27 May 2021 Card Payment B £1,000
27 May 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
27 May 2021 Card Payment B £4,000
1 June 2021 Card Payment B £7,000
14 June 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
15 June 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
16 June 2021 Card Payment B £10,000
Total payments £265,000
Did Mr P authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr P isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive considered 
whether Mr P authorised the payments in question here.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr P did authorise the payments in question here. They 
were made by him using his debit card. I understand that Mr P had been tricked by the 
scammer into instructing HSBC to make the payments  but while Mr P never intended the 
payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact that he authorised them and is 
therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of Mr Ps payments
After Mr P made his payments, I wouldnt expect HSBC to do anything further until it was 
notified of the scam. For payments made by debit card, there was only one method of 
potential recovery of the payments  instigating a chargeback to the merchant. 
Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card issuers (in this 
instance HSBC) and the merchant (B).
However, even if a chargeback was attempted, this would likely not have been successful. 
This is because the seller of the crypto, B, was a legitimate crypto exchange and provided 
the services which were requested of it which was the crypto itself. Therefore, the 
subsequent loss of the crypto to the scammer is a separate matter  and so a successful 
chargeback would unlikely have been possible  so I dont think that these payments were 
recoverable once they had been made.
Should HSBC have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that HSBC reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Mr P made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss before it happened.
Mr P authorised the scam payments in question here  he was tricked into instructing HSBC 
to make the payments  so I accept that the payments he made were authorised payments 
even though Mr P was the victim of a scam. This means that while Mr P never intended the 
payments to go to the scammers, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, HSBC should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly 
and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This leads me to consider the payments that Mr P has made  and if HSBC should have 
intervened.
The first six payments
While these amounts would usually seem high for HSBC to have had no interaction with 
Mr P about what he was doing  I do need to balance this with how Mr P was running his 
account before they were made. I can see looking at Mr Ps account in the lead up to the 
scam taking place that he had been making several high value transactions in the weeks 
before the first payment that he made to B, so I think that there was a pattern of high 
spending on his account at this time. The first six payments were also made over a period of 
two weeks. And so, I dont think that HSBC necessarily needed to contact him at this time.
The seventh payment
By the time the seventh payment was made, Mr P had now paid out over £50,000 to B within 
a few weeks  and I think that this is a marked difference in the way that Mr P was running 
his account, especially as the payments were going to a crypto exchange, given that by 
January 2019, HSBC should already have had a good understanding about how scams like 
the one Mr P fell victim to work.
With this in mind, HSBC should reasonably have contacted Mr P to establish whether the 
transaction posed any possibility of placing Mr P in financial harm before processing it. But it 
did not do so. Had HSBC done so, I wouldve expected it to have questioned Mr P about the 
payment he was making  including what he was making the payment for and surrounding context and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential 
fraud or scam. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr P was coached by the scammers  or told to lie 
about what the payment was for, or how he came across the supposed investment  so I 
think that had HSBC questioned him I think that it would quickly have uncovered that the 
payment was very likely to have been a scam, and given Mr P a meaningful warning that he 
was being scammed. And I dont think that Mr P would have ignored such a warning either.
HSBC says that as Mr P had already paid out such a large sum of money by the time that an 
intervention by it would have had no effect  as he was clearly under the spell of the 
scammer by this time. But as HSBC didnt give Mr P a warning, I dont see how it can say 
that he wouldnt have listened to it  while he had already paid out a significant sum of 
money, he intended (and did go on to) pay significantly more, and I think a meaningful 
warning from his bank would have likely prevented him from paying more money when he 
would have been told he was likely being scammed. 
So, I think that HSBC could have prevented the loss from this payment onward. 
Should Mr P bear some responsibility for the loss?
Although I think that HSBC should have prevented the loss from 27 April, I do also need to 
consider if Mr P should bear some responsibility for what happened here by way of 
contributory negligence. 
Mr P is already bearing some responsibility here, as I am not asking HSBC to refund him for 
the first six transactions  but I do think that there should be some further reduction in award 
here too. 
Mr P has explained that he did some research into the company before he made the 
payments  but that there wasnt much information available. He also said that he searched 
the FCA register to check that B were registered  but he didnt do so for GG. I think that 
Mr P should have applied more caution here  if he had been told that the company was 
registered, but that this wasnt true, I think he should have been aware that there was a risk 
attached to making such payments. 
I also think that Mr P should have acted sooner than he did when stopping making payments 
as he was having difficulty in accessing his supposed returns but continued to make 
payments, although I do understand that he was being pressured into doing so.
I understand that HSBC thinks that Mr P should bear 50% of the loss as aside from the 
above, as the rate of return Mr P was promised by GG was too good to be true. But I 
disagree. While Mr P had made investments through ISAs before and held his holding with 
HL, he wasnt experienced in crypto  and HSBC were the experts here, not him. HSBC 
missed an opportunity to intervene when it should have, and I consider that it should bear 
more responsibility than Mr P in this case.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr P the sum of all payments from payment seven, minus 
25% for contributory negligence.
I calculate this figure to be £166,500. HSBC should also pay Mr P 8% simple interest, from the date the payments were made until 
payment is made to Mr P.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman