DRN-1758800
The complaint
Ms M complains that she's received a poor level of service from Skyfire Insurance Services 
Limited following an accident, and about the time it's taken to resolve her claim.
What happened
Ms M has a comprehensive motor insurance policy for her car with Skyfire. She was 
involved in an accident in September 2019. Her open car door was hit by another car and 
the other driver didn't stop. But Ms M was able to record the other car's details, and says 
there were two witnesses, both of whom confirmed that the other driver was at fault. And the 
police were involved as the other driver didn't stop.
Ms M reported the accident to Skyfire the day after it happened. She's unhappy about the 
time it took for Skyfire to arrange the repairs to her car, the level of communication she 
received from them and that responsibility for the accident still hasn't been resolved. 
Ms M wanted the repairs to her car to be carried out by a manufacturer approved 
repairer. Skyfire wanted to use one of their approved repairers, but they didn't realise, 
for some time, that the garage Ms M wanted to use was part of their approved repairer 
network. So there was a delay in the repairs being arranged and the car being collected. And 
at one point the car was then taken to a garage some distance from Ms M's home, when 
the manufacturer approved repairer she wanted to use was much closer to where she lived.
Ms M made arrangements for the repairs to be carried out at this garage, and they were 
going to arrange to collect the car. But Skyfire then called them to cancel the repairs. 
Eventually Skyfire established that the garage chosen by Ms M was one of their authorised 
repairers, and the car was collected and repaired. But this was after some delay as the 
repairs were authorised on 9 September 2019, but the car was only collected by Ms M's 
chosen repairer on 19 September 2019, and the repairs weren't completed and the car 
returned to her until 2 October 2019. And Ms M says Skyfire did nothing without her chasing 
them, and if she hadn't done this the delay would have been far greater.
During the time Ms M was chasing Skyfire to deal with her repairs she raised two complaints 
about how her claim was being handled. Neither of these complaints were recorded or 
actioned by Skyfire. And it was only when she raised a third complaint that this was 
recorded, and even then she didn't hear from Skyfire within the time frame she was given 
and had to chase them again.
She's said she had to make over 40 calls to Skyfire, she wasn't updated unless she called 
them, she didn't receive promised call backs and was often given incorrect information.
Ms M is also unhappy that even though she was able to provide details of the car that hit her 
car, she was required to pay her policy excess, and she's lost her no claims bonus as 
Skyfire haven't been able to obtain an admission of liability from the other driver's insurers. 
She believes the delay in Skyfire obtaining a police report, particularly as she understands 
this contains two witness statements which support her account of the accident 
circumstances, has impacted on her financially, both in respect of her policy excess and loss of no claims bonus, and also as the cost of her insurance has increased, as she now has a 
fault claim registered against her.
Skyfire responded to Ms M's complaint on 4 November 2019. They accepted that there'd 
been a lot of poor communication with her. They said they couldn't refund her policy excess 
or reinstate her no claims bonus, as liability for the accident hadn't been resolved. But they 
said they were arranging to inspect the other driver's car, which was a hire vehicle, and 
obtaining a copy of the police report. They offered Ms M £150 for poor communication, and a 
further £50 to cover the cost of the calls she'd made. She'd asked for £192 for the calls, but 
hadn't  provided any evidence to support this, so Skyfire weren't prepared to agree this 
figure.
Ms M wasn't happy with Skyfire's response and complained to our service. Since she did 
this, she's raised a another complaint about further delays, including Skyfire's delay in 
obtaining the police report. She feels this has impacted to the chances of resolving liability in 
her favour, as the other car has been sold and isn't available for inspection. Skyfire have 
offered Ms M a further £150 for the ongoing delays.
Skyfire have confirmed that they're happy for our service to consider the further complaints 
Ms M has raised since the date of their final response letter.
Our investigator considered the case and said he understood that the delay in arranging Ms 
M's repairs was frustrating for her, as was the lack of communication she received from 
Skyfire. He didn't think Skyfire could be held responsible for the delay in obtaining the police 
report, as they'd submitted the appropriate request for the report, only to be told a further 
request had to be submitted.
He also felt Skyfire had done all they could to obtain an admission of liability from the other 
driver's insurers. But until this was received he thought it reasonable that she'd been 
required to pay her policy excess, her no claims bonus had been disallowed and her 
premiums had increased, as she had a fault claim registered against her policy. But he said 
if fault could be established against the other driver, Skyfire would be able to address these 
issues. Overall he felt that the £350 Skyfire had offered Ms M as compensation for the poor 
level of communication she'd received throughout her claim was reasonable. So he didn't 
ask them to do anything more.
Ms M was unhappy with our investigator's opinion so the case has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing with the aftermath of an accident can often be time-consuming and frustrating, 
particularly where one of the parties involved doesn't stop, as they should have done. It's 
fortunate that Ms M was able to record details of the other car involved in the accident, and 
pass these on to her insurers.
As Ms M made a claim for the repairs to her car under her policy, Skyfire were entitled to 
require her to pay her policy excess. They'd been told by the other driver's insurers that 
liability was in dispute, so they weren't in a position where they could agree to waive the 
excess. Until the issue of liability has been resolved and Skyfire can recover their costs, she's lost 
her no claims bonus as, unfortunately, Ms M has made a claim under her policy. The terms 
and conditions of her policy clearly set out the impact that making a claim has on her no 
claims bonus. So I can't say that Skyfire have done anything wrong.
And once a claim has been made, it will be one of the factors the insurer takes into 
account in calculating the next year's premium, when the policy is due for renewal.
If it can be established that the other driver was at fault, and Skyfire can recover their costs, 
then I'd expect them to look at Ms M's claim again, refund her excess, reinstate her no 
claims bonus and also refund any additional premium she's paid as a result of her claim.  
But unfortunately, where the other driver is not cooperating, this is likely to take time and I 
appreciate that Ms M is frustrated by the delay. But while I accept Skyfire haven't provided 
Ms M with the best level of service, I don't think this has impacted on resolving the issue of 
liability.
I understand that Ms M is frustrated with what she sees as a delay in obtaining the police 
report. But I think this has been out of Skyfire's control. They applied for the report, paying 
the appropriate fee, only to be told they needed to make a further request and pay a further 
fee. And they've told us this has been done.
Skyfire also told Ms M that they'd make arrangements to inspect the other car involved in the 
accident, as an engineer's report might help establish liability. But they've been told the car 
has been sold and isn't available for inspection. In these circumstances I can't hold 
Skyfire responsible for not arranging an inspection.
I've listened to the calls Ms M made to Skyfire when she was trying to arrange the repairs to 
her car. Her frustration and the time this was taking her is clear from the calls. Had 
Skyfire properly checked their list of approved repairers, when Ms M first gave them details 
of the garage she wanted to use, the delay in completing her repairs could have been 
avoided. 
It's also clear from the calls that on a number of occasions, Ms M was promised updates and 
calls that didn't happen, she had to continue to chase Skyfire to prompt them into action, and 
they failed to register the first two complaints she raised. As a result I think she's had a poor 
customer experience and there has been some delay in progressing her claim.
But Skyfire has now offered her £350 towards the cost of her calls and the poor customer 
service she's received. I think this is fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and 
upset she's experienced, so I won't be asking them to do anything further.
 My final decision
 For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I don't uphold Ms M's complaint 
against Skyfire Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman