DRN-2771294
The complaint
Mr R complains about a loan provided to him by George Banco Limited, (George Banco) 
which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr R was given a single loan by George Banco. He took the loan out on 6 January 2020 for 
£2000 and was due to repay it in 36 monthly instalments. The repayments were for around 
£121 and the total that he would have to repay was around £4356.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs complaint. He thought that George Banco carried 
out sufficient checks before agreeing to provide this loan and that there wasnt anything in 
the information it gathered which meant it shouldnt have lent to Mr R. 
Mr R didnt agree with our adjudicators view. As the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it comes to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Rs complaint.
General principles and questions I need to think about when deciding whether to uphold Mr 
Rs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out.
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend.
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the total cost 
of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for an 
extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether George Banco did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr R and thought carefully about the following key questions:
Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did George Banco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
what checks did George Banco do?
George Banco gathered some information from Mr R before it agreed the loan. It asked him 
for details of his income. Mr R said this was £1000 and George Banco verified this by 
looking at an online income verification tool. George Banco asked Mr R for how much he 
spent on rent or a mortgage each month. Mr R told it he paid £175 rent and he lived at home 
at that time. 
George Banco then used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess Mr Rs monthly 
general living expenses and it worked this out to be £439. It then ran a credit search and 
could see that Mr R had some revolving credit and was due to pay £16 a month as a credit 
commitment.
George Banco worked out that this left Mr R with disposable income which meant that the 
monthly contractual instalments of around £121 that he had signed up to make on this loan 
should have been affordable for him. It would have still left him with around £249 disposable 
income after the loan repayment had been taken into consideration. 
did George Banco do proportionate checks?
Ive carefully considered whether the information that George Banco gathered at the time 
should reasonably have triggered further checks. On balance, I dont think that the information George Banco had collected about Mr Rs financial situation was enough to 
prompt a reasonable lender to think it needed to do further or more in-depth checking. 
The credit report that George Banco acquired showed very little at that time and it could see, 
based on the checks it carried out that there wasnt anything that would have alerted it to 
wanting to find out more. So, I think the checks it carried out were proportionate.
did George Banco make a fair lending decision?
Taking things as a whole, I think it would have been reasonable for George Banco to 
consider that the monthly repayments on its loan were affordable for Mr R  allowing for the 
amount it had assessed to be his disposal income. 
Ive needed to see whether George Banco made a fair lending decision based on what it had 
in front of it, and from what I have seen, I think it did.
Overall, I think the checks that George Banco carried out before lending to Mr R were 
reasonable and proportionate. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for George 
Banco to have relied on the information that Mr R provided and what it found in its checks - 
and this was enough to enable George Banco to gain a reasonable understanding of his 
financial situation and see that Mr R appeared to be managing his money without any 
significant payment problems. I dont think more in-depth checks  such as requesting bank 
statements were required.
So, I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Rs irresponsible lending complaint.
has George Banco acted unfairly in any other way?
Mr R has recently said he has in more recent times suffered financially due to losing his job. 
He says he has completed an income and expenditure form with George Banco and this 
exercise has shown that he has no disposable income and is struggling financially.
I am sorry to hear this and if he hasnt agreed a payment plan with George Banco yet, I 
would like to remind it that it should discuss all options constructively with Mr R and treat him 
fairly and sympathetically if Mr R needs further time to pay what he still owes.
I would though agree with our adjudicator that George Banco would not have had any 
foresight into Mr Rs recent financial issues when it agreed to lend. 
In conclusion, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against
George Banco Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman