DRN-3020411
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr M complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited cancelled their personal private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D and Mr M took out a Health for You private medical insurance policy in September 
2017. The policy was an annual one and ran from 1 September 2017 until 21 August 2018. 
The policy renewed as planned on 1 September 2018.
In July 2019, AXA emailed Mrs D and Mr M to let them know that their policy would be 
renewing. And on 31 July 2019, it sent Mrs D a letter which explained that it didnt have her 
payment details on file and would require these for the upcoming renewal. The letter 
enclosed a direct debit mandate to allow Mrs D and Mr M to opt for that form of payment if 
they wished to.
]
The policy renewed as planned on 1 September 2019. However, as AXA didnt have Mrs D 
and Mr Ms payment details, it was unable to collect their premiums. So it wrote to Mrs D on 
2 September 2019 to reiterate that it required payment details and provided payment 
options. The letter explained that Mrs D and Mr M would need to make payment within the 
following 45 days, or the policy would be cancelled with effect from 1 September 2019. As it 
didnt receive any payment details or premium payment, it cancelled the policy and wrote to 
Mrs D and Mr M to let them know.
In September 2020, Mrs D got in touch with AXA because she couldnt access her online 
account. At that point, she learned that the policy had been cancelled the previous year. 
Mrs D and Mr M were unhappy with AXAs decision. They said they hadnt received its 
previous letters and had understood that the 2019 renewal had gone ahead as planned. 
They said theyd have expected AXA to call them if it was unable to collect their premiums. 
Theyd had to take out new private medical cover, but this excluded their existing conditions 
 which Mr M required treatment for. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had treated Mrs D and Mr M unfairly. She felt that given 
Mrs D and Mr M usually paid their annual premium upfront, it wouldve been reasonable for 
them to notice that their credit card hadnt been deducted. She was satisfied that AXA had 
sent the payment reminder letters to Mrs D. And she didnt think AXA was required to call 
Mrs D and Mr M to discuss the missing payment details.
Mrs D and Mr M disagreed. They provided a detailed response to our investigator, which Ive 
summarised. They said that at the time AXA sent the renewal paperwork, theyd been 
travelling and so hadnt accessed the documents. But the email stated that the policy would 
be renewed automatically, which theyd been happy with. Theyd believed that AXA would 
still have their card details from the previous year and would call if it needed any further 
information. Mrs D said she had several accounts and credit cards and so she felt the point 
relating to noticing the lack of premium deduction from her card was a red herring. They 
stated that AXAs paperwork stated it would try and call to answer any policyholder 
questions  but it had failed to call them. And they considered that there were a multitude of 
ways for AXA to communicate effectively with its customers.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D and Mr M, I think it was fair for AXA to 
cancel their policy. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs D and Mr M that while Ive summarised the background to their 
complaint, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. I havent commented on 
each and every point theyve made though and our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Its also important that I make clear our role. Were not the industry regulator and so I have 
no power to tell businesses to change their processes or procedures. Our role is to look at 
individual complaints brought by consumers to decide whether a financial business has done 
something wrong which has caused a consumer to lose out. So while I appreciate much of 
Mrs D and Mr Ms complaint centres on the way AXA chooses to communicate with its 
customers; Im not able to direct AXA to change its commercial decisions about how it keeps 
in touch with its policyholders.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mrs D and Mr Ms policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with AXA. Their policy was an annual plan and in 2018, Mrs D and Mr 
M chose to pay for their contract annually by credit card. 
The policy terms say: It is important that you pay your premium when it is due. If you miss a 
payment, we will cancel your policy and we will not pay any claim for any treatment that you 
had after the payment was due.
Im satisfied then that the terms of the contract make clear that if premiums arent paid on 
time, AXA is entitled to cancel a policy.
In this case, AXA emailed Mrs D and Mr M on 29 July 2019 to let them know that their policy 
was due to renew on 1 September 2019. The email was headed Were about to renew your 
health insurance and immediately underneath, asked Mrs D and Mr M to log-in and check 
their policy documents. The email stated that the 2019-20 renewal price would be £1534.79. 
And it said that if Mrs D and Mr D were happy with everything, they didnt need to take any 
action  the policy would automatically renew. 
However, two days later, on 31 July 2019, AXA wrote to Mrs D to explain that it didnt have 
her payment details on file and that it would require new payment details for her renewal. It 
set out the payment options which were available and enclosed a direct debit mandate, in 
case that was Mrs Ds preferred payment method. As it didnt receive any payment details 
prior to the renewal, it sent Mrs D a further letter on 2 September 2019. This said:
As we don't have your payment details on file, well require new payment details so
that we can continue your policy.
So that we can continue your cover, please make your payment within the next 45 days.
If we don't hear from you, then your cover will end with effect from 01/09/2019.As AXA didnt receive the payment details it needed, it cancelled Mrs D and Mr Ms policy on 
17 October 2019. This was 46 days after its previous letter. The letter was headed; were 
sorry to see you go and explained that the policy had been cancelled as of 1 September 
2019.
Ive looked closely at these letters. All three were addressed to the same address we hold 
for Mrs D. So while I accept Mrs D and Mr M say that none of the letters were received, Im 
satisfied, on balance, that they were sent and to the correct address. I think both the letter of 
31 July and the letter of 2 September 2019 clearly explained that AXA required new payment 
details. And Im satisfied the letter of 2 September 2019 made clear the consequences of not 
providing AXA with this information within 45 days. On this basis, I think AXA took 
reasonable steps to let Mrs D and Mr M know that it needed payment information and that if 
this wasnt received within a defined timeframe, the policy would be cancelled. I cant fairly 
hold AXA responsible if correctly-addressed letters werent received. So I dont find it made 
any error.
As Ive set out above, the policy terms entitle AXA to cancel a policy if premiums arent paid. 
Theres no dispute here that Mrs D and Mr M didnt pay their annual (or any) premium prior 
to the cancellation of the policy. And so I find that it was fair for AXA to cancel the policy 
following the expiry of the 45-day period.
I appreciate Mrs D and Mr M say that given the number of accounts and cards they have, 
they didnt notice that the annual premium hadnt debited. However, as theyd been given 
clear information about what the premium would be; the fact that the premium was for a 
significant sum and the date of payment (1 September 2019), I think it might have been 
reasonable for them to check and make sure the payment had been collected. Had they 
done so, theyd have been in a position to get in touch with AXA before the policy was 
cancelled.
Mrs D and Mr M feel strongly that AXAs renewal paperwork indicated that it would call them 
prior to renewal. I accept that the email said AXA would try to call to answer any questions 
Mrs D and Mr M may have had. And it also mightve been helpful if itd done so. But theres 
no guarantee that a call will be made and it seems the purpose of the call wouldve been to 
answer Mrs D and Mr Ms questions  rather than AXA requiring further information to 
process the renewal. So in the round, I dont think this materially affects the outcome of this 
complaint.
Overall, Im persuaded that AXA was reasonably entitled to cancel Mrs D and Mr Ms policy. 
I sympathise with their position, as I appreciate that their existing conditions have now been 
excluded by their current policy. But Im satisfied that AXA has treated them fairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman