DRN-2528325
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a motorhome he financed through an agreement with 
Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his vehicle under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the motorhome should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of 
the motorhome, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a motorhome the other relevant circumstances would likely 
include things like the age, mileage and price at the time the motorhome was supplied to   
Mr W. This was a brand-new motorhome so I dont think a reasonable person would expect 
it to have any faults.
Im persuaded that the rippling seen on the side of Mr Ws motorhome is a fault. Whilst I 
understand the manufacturer says its within normal tolerance I disagree. The manufacturer 
hasnt provided any tolerances and I think its reasonable to suggest a consumer would 
expect there not to be visible imperfections on the panelling. I think its clear the motorhome 
isnt of the standard a reasonable person would expect of a new vehicle.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present at 
the point of supply. I understand thats exactly what Mr W would like the business to do. But 
there will be occasions when thats not a reasonable request to make of the business and I 
think thats the case here. I say that because theyve explained it will be a very expensive 
option and because I understand their argument that if the manufacturer cant guarantee the 
surface finish Mr W wants there may well be a subsequent complaint once the repair is 
completed.
Theyve also explained that they cant replace the motorhome. I understand Black Horse 
arent motorhome dealers and that the dealer they have spoken to cannot find a suitable 
replacement. I dont think it would be fair to insist they did find a replacement and I can 
understand that may prove impossible. 
Black Horse have offered two solutions. One is a 10% discount which equates to £5,236 off 
the cash price and the other is to allow Mr W to reject the motorhome. I think both offers are 
reasonable and whilst Im telling them to honour these offers I dont think it would be fair to 
tell Black Horse to provide a replacement or a repair.
Mr W had to arrange to transport the motorhome to England and to collect it himself; all at 
his own expense. Whilst some transport costs have been refunded, others havent. Black 
Horse should therefore refund the cost of Mr Ws flights to and from England, upon receipt of 
the invoice from Mr W, and they should pay 8% interest on all transport costs as Mr W has 
been deprived of that money.
Its clear that Mr W has been inconvenienced by this issue. Hes had to wait a long time for 
any resolution and has had to arrange transportation for the motorhome and himself. In 
those circumstances I would agree with the investigator that Black Horse should pay him 
£300 compensation.
 
Putting things right
Black Horse should either allow Mr W to reject the motorhome or provide a £5,236 reduction 
off the cash price. Mr W will need to tell them which he prefers if he accepts the outcome of 
this decision.
If a rejection is preferred Black Horse will need to end the finance agreement, refund any 
deposit, collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr W and remove any adverse reports they may 
have made to his credit file in relation to this issue. Ive considered whether Black Horse 
should refund any of the finance instalments in respect of lack of use, but I dont think        
Mr Ws use of the motorhome has been affected by the quality defect so Im not asking Black 
Horse to refund any instalments.
If Mr W prefers to accept the £5,236 reduction in the cash price the finance agreement will 
continue on that basis.
Under both options the business will need to refund the cost of Mr Ws flights to and from 
England and pay 8% interest on all transport costs. Theyll also need to provide 
compensation of £300.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Black Horse Limited to 
either:
allow Mr W to reject the motorhome and end his finance agreement;
collect the motorhome at no cost to Mr W;refund any deposit that was paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
Or:
apply a £5,236 reduction in the cash price to the agreement
Under both options Black Horse Limited should also:
refund the cost of Mr Ws flights to and from England and pay 8% interest on all 
transport costs.
pay Mr W £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ws credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman