DRN-2265636
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Masthaven Bank Limited charged them an extra four days 
interest when they were redeeming their bridging loan.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Masthavens solicitor provided the redemption figure to Mr and Mrs B in a letter dated 
25 March 2019. Within that letter it said that if the funds were coming directly from 
Mr and Mrs B (rather than via a solicitor) then checks needed to be undertaken. It 
said, to do so, Mr and Mrs B needed to provide certified bank statements for the 
account the funds were coming from, and a written explanation - with proof - of the 
source of the funds. Having considered the letter Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B were 
made aware in advance of them making the payment what they needed to provide.
Whilst Mr and Mrs B paid the funds to the solicitor on Friday 29 March, they didnt 
provide the information that had been requested until Sunday 31 March.
The solicitor completed the checks it had to undertake on the source of the funds on 
Tuesday 2 April by which time a further £124.44 in interest had accrued. The letter 
from the solicitor on 25 March had confirmed that interest would continue to accrue 
until that process was complete, and Im satisfied the time taken by the solicitor was 
reasonable. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration, I dont uphold this 
complaint and I consider the extra £124.44 was fairly due.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman