DRN-3240530
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited not dealing with her 
subsidence claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H made a claim after noticing cracking to her property. Admiral appointed experts G 
to inspect the damage and validate the claim. G reported that the property was suffering 
subsidence and that the likely cause of the damage was neighbouring tree roots. Admiral 
said Miss H had declared a previous possible subsidence claim with her previous insurer 
when she took out the policy. Miss H said that the previous insurers had declined the claim 
and said it wasnt subsidence.
Admiral considered dealing with the claim and following the Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) domestic subsidence agreement. This would mean it would deal with the claim and 
contact the previous insurer for a contribution towards the claim costs as Admiral was still in 
the first year of the policy. 
Admiral decided not to do that. Instead it declined the claim. It said the subsidence occurred 
before it was on cover. It confirmed that in a questionnaire Miss H had completed for G she 
said the damage was first noted in the summer of 2017. On an industry database Admiral 
said it found details of a claim made by Miss H from 2016 that the previous insurer had 
declined because the previous policy didnt cover subsidence. Admiral concluded the 
damage didnt occur during the time it was on cover and said this was why it suggested 
Miss H should go back to her previous insurer.
Unhappy with this Miss H brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said from the limited details hed seen G said the 
damage was progressing while Admiral was on cover. He said there was no evidence to 
suggest the damage had started and concluded before the policy with Admiral was taken out 
in early 2018. He also noted from discussions with Miss H that the damage was getting 
worse after she took out the Admiral policy. He found out that the neighbouring trees had 
been cut back and Miss H felt that the movement had now stopped.
Our investigator confirmed the approach of this service that if the new damage cant be 
repaired without also dealing with the old damage then Admiral would have to carry out a full 
repair. He confirmed Admiral could go to the previous insurers for a contribution in line with 
the ABI agreement. However, he said this shouldnt stop Admiral dealing with Miss Hs 
claim. Due to the delays caused by Admiral lasting over two years he said this had caused 
Miss H distress and inconvenience and said Admiral should pay £500 compensation for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to confirm this service takes into account what is considered to be good 
industry practice. In subsidence cases that revolves around the ABI agreement. So, whether 
or not an insurer is party to the agreement it is the benchmark we work to.
The agreement says in relation to domestic subsidence and change of insurer claims:
Option 3. Where the Date of Notification is more than eight weeks but less than one year 
from the date of inception of the current Insurer's policy, any claim shall be accepted and 
dealt with by the Insurer to whom notification is given and the Cost of Settlement shared 
equally between the two Insurers. The handling Insurer shall keep the other Insurer advised 
of material developments, including the original reserve and any revision. Contributions shall 
be paid within 21 days subject to full details being supplied with supporting documentation 
(to include apportioned VAT invoices in respect of fees incurred on behalf of both Insurers). 
Interim contributions will not be collected for sums less than £5000.
Regarding claims notification the agreement says:
Date of Notification - The date on which the written or verbal communication notifying the 
damage and/or claim was first received by the current or previous Insurer or such Insurer's 
agent.
These details clearly suggest Admiral is responsible for the claim. We know the claim was 
made while Admiral was the insurer and the ABI agreement allows it to potentially involve 
the previous insurer.
The previous insurers experts issued a report on the previous claim that concluded the 
damage wasnt consistent with foundation movement. It said it was differential movement 
between the main home and the rear projection.
The details from G and Miss H suggest the damage was progressing while the policy was 
with Admiral. Although Miss H did say, while on cover with Admiral, once the neighbouring 
tree had been dealt with the cracking did seem to stop.
The previous insurer also pointed out that Gs report for Admiral said we are satisfied that 
the damage to the property has occurred as a result of clay shrinkage subsidence, caused 
by the exceptionally hot, dry Summer of 2018 and aggravated by the moisture demands of 
nearby vegetation." Within its final response letter Admiral confirmed it was the insurer from 
January 2018.
Our investigator said to Admiral that to deal with any damage that occurred while the policy 
was on cover it would also mean it had to deal with any linked old damage. He also said as 
Miss H had continuous cover Admiral should deal with the claim and any issues with the 
previous insurer it should take up separately.
Ive seen no evidence to support Admirals comment that Miss H didnt have subsidence 
cover under her previous policy. And I dont think Admiral has shown that it acted fairly and 
reasonably when it declined to deal with the subsidence claim. Admiral needs to deal with 
and pay the subsidence claim.
I dont see any valid reason why Admiral chose not to deal with the claim. Its clear that if it 
had dealt with it from the outset the claim would most likely have been concluded by now. 
So, Miss H has been subjected to lengthy delays, added stress, and worries over her claim 
and the damage suffered to her home. Miss H told us that she stopped using one of the 
toilets in her home due to the damage. Its clear that she was upset and feels that Admiral has let her down. In this case I think compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience is 
fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
deal with and pay the claim.
pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
deal with and pay the claim.
pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Miss H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman