DRN-3634288
The complaint
Mr Z complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined his storm claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Due to his vulnerable circumstances Mr Z was confined to the ground floor of his property for 
several months. When his circumstances improved, and he was able to access upstairs of 
his property he noticed significant damage to his property caused by water entering the roof. 
So, Mr Z made a claim to UKI for storm damage.
UKI appointed a loss adjuster to review the claim and based upon his report, UKI decided to 
decline the claim. It said the the damage is pre-existing and although there were storm 
conditions, the weather has merely exacerbated the damage, rather than been the sole 
cause of it. UKI continued by saying your policy does not provide cover for pre-existing 
damage or wear and tear. However, UKI did pay £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused as it originally said the claim would be covered before providing its 
final decision to decline the claim.
Mr Z was unhappy with UKIs decision as he felt it was incorrect and he thought the report 
provided by the loss adjuster was inaccurate on some of its commentary.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He didnt think UKI had been 
unreasonable in concluding it was most likely a pre-existing condition at Mr Zs property had 
been the main cause of damage. He hadnt seen any evidence that a storm was likely to be 
the primary cause. Mr Z disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Due to Mr Zs vulnerability he was unable to say exactly when the damage occurred, but he 
thought it was likely that it had been caused by a storm and said that there had been three 
storms in the last 12 months.
I can see UKIs claim notes record that it said there was a storm on the 16 February 2022, 
with gusts of wind documented at 64mph. As UKI has accepted storm conditions were 
evident in the claim period, I have considered the next question. 
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I think its possible that high winds could potentially cause damage like what has been 
claimed for. Significant winds could result in tiles been blown from a roof or causing them to 
become dislodged. This could lead to subsequent water damage. So, I will consider the next 
question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
UKI said the policy didnt cover the damage, so I have reviewed the policy to see what it 
states. Page seven of the policy shows what isnt covered. The policy states:
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
 Wear and tear
 Maintenance and routine decoration
 Loss or damage as a result of the lack of maintenance and/or routine decoration.
 Any damage caused gradually.
Therefore, if UKI has shown its likely any of these circumstances exist, then Im likely to say 
its been fair in declining the claim.
My role is to consider the information that has been made available and to decide whether I 
think UKIs decision to decline the claim is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Mr Z said he had three contractors inspect the roof of his property but 
unfortunately none of these were willing to put their opinions in writing, so I havent been 
able to consider these. I will consider the testimony provided by Mr Z and the expert report 
provided by UKIs loss adjuster.
The loss adjuster concluded in his report it is our considered opinion that the damage 
sustained to the property pre dates the loss by some time and that the primary cause of 
damage is age related deterioration of the roof covering and untended vegetation growing 
from the valley to the rear of the property. I have noted the loss adjuster commented 
external inspection of the roof in this locality noted no evident storm damage but
there was significant wear and tear to the roof and the timbers of the dormer windows.
The roof covering could be seen to dip towards the side of each dormer and this age
related deterioration of the roof covering was the apparent cause of ingress to the front
aspect of the property.
Mr Z has disputed the findings. He said, please explain to me what is the source of water 
causing severe wet attic and severely wet damaged timber in the attic and he added there 
is no plumbing of any kind in the loft.
I have reviewed the loss adjusters report and I find the commentary is consistent with the 
photographs provided of the roof. Its clear there is vegetation growing in the valley and the 
dormer window does look in need of maintenance. Therefore, I find the report persuasive. I 
think the loss adjuster has been fair to conclude the deterioration in the valley and the 
dormer window are likely to have been the source of the water entering the roof. As there is 
no contradictory evidence from other experts, I wont be upholding this complaint.
I think UKI has been reasonable in demonstrating its likely wear and tear was the main 
cause of the damage and there has been no evidence provided to show a storm was the main cause. I appreciate Mr Z was unable to access the upper floors of his property and 
parts of the roof werent visible to him. But unfortunately, this is not enough to persuade me, 
as I dont think there is evidence of maintenance to the roof for some time, so I dont think its 
fair to expect UKI to cover this claim as it has shown the wear and tear of the roof is the 
likely cause of the damage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require U K Insurance Limited to 
do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman