DRN-3081166
The complaint
Mr A, trading as L, complaints about the decision of The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to decline his business interruption insurance claim for losses 
resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a brief summary of events. For the sake of simplicity, I 
have just referred to Mr A and The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU), even though other parties were involved in the events that took place.
Mr A held a Property Owners Insurance policy underwritten by NFU. The policy provided 
cover for a number of areas of risk, including for business interruption. In March 2020, as a 
result of the government-imposed restrictions introduced to limit the spread of COVID-19, 
Mr A was unable to trade as he normally would. He contacted NFU to claim under the policy. 
However, NFU declined the claim. Mr A complained about this decision. 
NFU said that the business interruption cover provided by Mr As policy usually requires 
damage to property. And this would not be triggered by the circumstances. NFU did refer to 
two extensions to this cover that did not require damage. But said that the Human Diseases 
extension only provided cover in relation to certain, specified diseases and that this list did 
not include COVID-19. And that whilst the Public Emergency extension provided cover for 
circumstances where an emergency had led to a relevant authority taking action which 
hindered the use of or access to the insured premises, this extension excluded losses 
resulting from an infectious or contagious disease. As COVID-19 was such a disease, NFU 
said this extension did not provide cover in the circumstances of the claim.
Mr A brought his complaint about the decline of the claim to this service. But our Investigator 
did not think it should be upheld. She thought that the terms of the policy had been applied 
correctly by NFU when declining the claim. Mr A remained unsatisfied, so this complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr A and his business, I wont be upholding his complaint. My 
reasons are substantially the same as the Investigators.
I understand that Mr A closed his business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of this business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to fully 
operate. So, the type of cover Mr As looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr A took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Mr As policy, as well as 
a number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Mr As business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mr As claim. And I 
think NFU acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Mr As claim under this area of cover.
NFU referred to two other extensions to this business interruption cover provided by Mr As 
policy; the Human Diseases extension and the Public Emergency extension. Mr A has made 
his main arguments under the second of these, but I will address both for the sake of 
completeness.
The Human Diseases extension
The Human Diseases extension in Mr As policy provides cover where a disease has led to 
the premises being closed or their use restricted. But this is limited to providing cover in the 
event of certain, specified diseases. Mr A is aware of this list, so I have not repeated it here. 
It is enough to say that the list does not include COVID-19.
Having considered this extension, Im not persuaded it provides Mr A with cover for the 
circumstances of his claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one of the diseases listed in the 
definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for NFU to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
NFU intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. NFU deliberately 
chose to limit the cover by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy Mr A has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy Mr A has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of specified disease in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Mr As claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Mr As policy for losses resulting from business interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied NFUs decision to decline the claim under 
this extension was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable.
The Public Emergency extension
This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a competent 
Public Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property occurring 
within the vicinity of the PREMISES, which prevents or hinders the use of or access 
to the PREMISES for a period greater than four consecutive hours.
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device...
The use of Mr As premises was hindered by the restrictions introduced by the Government 
in March 2020. But these restrictions were introduced to control the spread of COVID-19. 
And COVID-19 is an infectious or contagious disease. So, whilst a relevant authority took the 
actions or gave advice which restricted the use of the insured premises, I consider this 
action was taken was the result of an infectious or contagious disease. And I think the 
exclusion above applies. 
Mr A has argued that this exclusion forms a separate paragraph and should be read 
separately from the first paragraph. But I do not agree with this. The policy says, before 
setting out the various extensions to the business interruption cover:
All cover extensions and endorsements will be subject to the limits, conditions and 
exclusions of this section and to the general definitions, conditions, exclusions and 
claims conditions of the policy unless otherwise stated.
And I consider this means the cover provided by the extension is subject to the limits, 
conditions and exclusions created by the second paragraph.
The exclusion sits within the extension and applies to the cover provided by that extension. 
So, I think this second paragraph acts to restrict the cover provided by the first. 
The alternative is that this second paragraph applies to the whole business interruption 
section or to the whole policy. I do not consider this likely for a number of reasons, including 
the fact it would negate almost all the cover provided by the Human Diseases extension 
above. But even if it did apply in such a broad way, this would still mean it applied to the 
Public Emergency extension. I am unable to accept that the wording in the first paragraph of 
this extension should be read in isolation without reference to the rest of the extension. 
So, whilst I note Mr As argument, I am not persuaded that this extension provides cover in 
the circumstance of his claim. And as a result, I do not consider NFU acted inappropriately in 
declining his claim under this extension. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means NFU should have met Mr As claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for him, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman