DRN-1979901
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in November 
1996 alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mrs G took 
out the store card.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs G says AXA mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs G says she cant remember how the store card was applied for, but she says she was 
recommended to take out insurance with the card. 
AXA has provided evidence of their internal records to show that the PPI was taken out over
the phone in November 1996  some months after the store card account had been set up. 
But unfortunately, due to the length of time thats passed there is no call recording for me to 
listen to  so I cant say what exactly was discussed at the time. But as Mrs G already had 
the credit in place at the time of the call, I think she wouldve known the PPI was an optional 
extra and not a condition of having the store card.
AXA has also provided call scripts which it says wouldve been used for these types of
sales around that time  and Ive seen no reason to doubt this. These show that the sales
person was instructed to present the PPI as optional to Mrs G. And without any evidence to
persuade me otherwise, I think its unlikely AXA wouldve added the PPI to her account
without her permission.
So, based on all the evidence Ive seen and without any stronger evidence to the contrary, I
think AXA made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it
out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Mrs G initially said she was recommended to take out the PPI with her store card. But from 
what weve seen of these types of sales, AXA usually didnt provide any advice or 
recommendation to take out PPI, so our adjudicator felt it was more likely to have been non-
advised sale. Mrs G didnt respond to the adjudicators opinion with any further or more 
persuasive evidence as to why she believes this was an advised sale. So, Ive also 
considered this to have been a non-advised sale.    
As AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G, it didnt have to check if the policy was right for
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide if the PPI
was right for her.
Its possible some of the information AXA gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. So, I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Gs outstanding monthly balance
for up to twelve months. And even though Mrs G was entitled sick pay from her employer, 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and for longer than her full sick pay wouldve 
lasted. And so, I still think the policy wouldve been useful for her and I dont think better 
information wouldve put her off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman