DRN-3586590
The complaint
The estate of Ms B complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim for lost 
jewellery under a contents insurance policy.
Mrs F is the executor of the estate of Ms B and has been representing it in this complaint.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs F got in touch with Fairmead in 2021 after she discovered jewellery that had 
belonged to Ms B was missing. It was thought the jewellery may have been taken in 
2006 by a lodger staying with Ms B. It was also possible the jewellery may have been 
taken more recently by Ms Bs partner.
Fairmead declined the claim for two reasons:
oIt said the loss fell outside the six year limitation period, and
oIn any event, the policy contained a term which meant there was no cover for 
theft if the jewellery had been taken by the lodger or Ms Bs partner.
Mrs F didnt think this was fair. She noted one item of jewellery, a ring, had been 
specified on the policy and there was additional cover available for it that Fairmead 
hadnt considered. She also raised concerns about the administration of the policy, 
including a refund that was due after the ring was removed from the policy.
After the complaint was referred to this service, Fairmead accepted it would be unfair 
to say the claim was made too late, as Mrs F made it within six years of becoming 
aware of the loss. It maintained the claim could fairly be declined by relying on the 
second point. It said the policy contained a similar term under the personal 
possessions cover, as well as the standard contents cover.
Fairmead put right the administration and refund problems. It apologised for the way 
it had handled these points and offered Mrs F £100 compensation.
Our investigator said Fairmead had acted fairly by relying on the policy terms to 
decline the claim. She was satisfied it had responded to the other issues reasonably.
Mrs F disagreed. She didnt think Fairmead had carried out sufficient investigations to 
fully understand what had happened. And she questioned why the premium related 
to the ring hadnt been refunded back to 2006.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim outcome
As Fairmead has accepted the six year limitation period isnt relevant here, Ill focus on the 
other reason it declined the claim  policy terms relating to who took the jewellery.
The exact details of the loss are uncertain, but Mrs F has suggested two possibilities  theft 
by the lodger in 2006 or by Ms Bs partner at some time since then. I understand Ms Bs 
partner has been questioned by the Police about the loss and maintained the lodger was 
responsible for the theft. No further action has been taken by the Police.
In these circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to consider the policy cover 
and reach a decision on the strength of what Mrs F had said. Im not persuaded there were 
further investigations it should have carried out, or other evidence it ought to have gathered. 
The nature of the loss, and the timescale involved, means theres little that can be done to 
understand what happened in greater detail. So I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to 
consider the claim based on the two possibilities suggested. It would have been preferable 
for Fairmead to consider all relevant sections of the policy initially, but its done so now.
Theft of jewellery is covered under the standard contents section of the policy, subject to a 
number of terms and conditions. One term says the policy doesnt cover loss caused by 
you, lodgers, paying guests, or tenants.
The ring was specified on the policy and covered under the personal possessions section. It 
was covered for loss, again subject to terms and conditions. One term says the policy 
doesnt cover theft caused by you, lodgers, paying guests or tenants.
The policy defines you to mean the policyholder or any member of their family permanently 
residing at their home.
During the relevant time, Ms B was the policyholder. I recognise Mrs F was representing her, 
but the policy remained Ms Bs and it insured Ms Bs contents. So Ms B is the subject of the 
word you, rather than Mrs F.
I understand Ms Bs partner was permanently living with her at their home. Im satisfied that 
means he falls under the policy definition of you. So if he took the ring, the claim isnt 
covered. And the policy is clear it doesnt cover theft by a lodger either.
Based on the circumstances described by Mrs F, Im satisfied it was fair for Fairmead to 
decline the claim for jewellery, including the specified ring.
Other matters
I understand the administration issues have been resolved by Fairmead. And a refund of the 
premium for the specified ring has been made back to the start of the policy year in May 
2020.
Fairmead offered £100 compensation for the difficulties it caused with these issues. It should 
have been a routine matter of updating the policy details following Ms B passing away and 
removing cover for the ring after the claim was made. But both issues took an unnecessary 
amount of time and inconvenience for Mrs F to get resolved.
Mrs F was inconvenienced whilst representing Ms B as executor of her estate. I dont have 
the power to award compensation for inconvenience to Mrs F in these circumstances. So I 
wont comment on the amount offered by Fairmead.Mrs F has questioned why a refund for the specified ring hasnt gone back further than 2020, 
when it may have been lost as long ago as 2006. If it was known for certain the ring was lost 
at a particular point in time, it may be fair for Fairmead to backdate the refund to that time. 
Whilst I dont think it did anything wrong by insuring the item as it was asked to, if it 
transpired the item was lost and there was no risk for Fairmead to insure, a refund may be 
fair. But its uncertain when the ring was lost  and its possible it was as recently as 2020. 
As the circumstances are so uncertain, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Fairmead 
to backdate the refund further than it has done.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms B 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman