DRN-3895683
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she cant make a partial transfer from her Scottish Widows Limited 
(SW) group personal pension plan (GPP) from just one fund. SW has said the transfer must 
be split evenly across all the funds shes invested in.  
What happened
Mrs S has a pension with SW. Her employer pays into it monthly and the contributions are 
split across six investment funds which are selected by Mrs S. 
In 2022, Mrs S made enquiries about making a partial transfer of her SW pension to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with another provider. Mrs S wishes to transfer all of the 
money from one of the funds she invested into the SIPP, leaving the other five funds 
unaffected. SW informed Mrs S that she was unable to do this. It said shed need to dis-
invest equally from the six funds she holds. SW said this was because of its system 
limitations.
Mrs S complained to SW, but it didnt uphold her complaint. So she referred it to our service.
One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied 
this was a business decision SW was entitled to make. 
Mrs S didnt accept this. She said, in summary: 
this decision by SW wasnt treating her fairly;
she hadnt been made aware of this limitation and it wasnt in SWs terms and 
conditions;
she thought SW could do as she asked but wasnt trying hard enough;
she didnt have the option to transfer her entire pension as the other funds she held 
werent available via other providers.
Mrs S asked that her complaint be considered by an Ombudsman. So its been passed to 
me to review and make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs S frustrations. She thinks that her request to SW should be a 
straightforward one and easy to carry out given that she can switch her SW funds internally 
easily. However, SW has explained that due to its systems limitations, it cannot do so. Mrs S 
says she thinks SW could do this but wont. But Ive no evidence this is the case. If SW could 
carry out Mrs S request, I see no reason why it wouldnt. So, Im satisfied this is likely a 
limitation of its system as its told us, rather than SW not trying hard enough.
Mrs S has said that the inability to transfer from one specific fund to another pension isnt 
covered within the terms and conditions. Ive looked through the terms and conditions and I 
agree its not mentioned there. However, this doesnt mean that it has to allow Mrs S to do 
the partial transfer as she wishes. How to allow a transfer such as this is a business decision 
that SW is entitled to make. And, of course, the limitations of its systems will factor into these 
decisions. Ive not seen anything to make me think Mrs S was led to believe she could 
transfer from just one fund or anything within the terms and conditions which require SW to 
offer this. Whilst I understand why Mrs S is unhappy with SWs business decision here, I 
dont have grounds to insist on it doing something its unable to do.
Mrs S has said she had no advanced visibility of this restriction. And this maybe the case. 
But I dont think this changes matters with regards to my consideration of the complaint. This 
GPP was set up for Mrs S by her employer. So, its not one she chose because of particular 
features it offered. When Mrs S made enquiries about what she wanted to do, she was told 
promptly of the restrictions. So, I cant see that advance notice of this restriction wouldve 
made any difference. 
As our investigator explained, Mrs S is able to move to another provider should she wish to. I 
understand that Mrs S doesnt wish to change given that she wishes to retain access to 
certain funds only offered by SW. Thats of course a decision shes entitled to make. 
However, if Mrs S choses to remain with SW, then she needs to be aware that this restriction 
on transfers being split across all funds will remain.
My final decision
I understand Mrs S feels very strongly about this matter, but my final decision is I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman