DRN-1953904
 
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Virgin Money plc gave her unsuitable advice to invest in a Personal 
Equity Plan (PEP) in 1998. She complains it didnt carry out a fact find or establish her 
attitude to risk.
What happened
In 1998 Mrs E filled out an application and agreed to invest in a Growth PEP. She agreed to 
pay £50 every month into the PEP and it would be invested accordingly. In 2001 she 
surrendered the investment. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Es complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. 
She explained that not all investments were sold on an advised basis, and in some cases 
investments could be sold without a personal recommendation. The investigator explained 
that Virgin had told her that the sale in 1998 was non-advised. The investigator said that 
Virgin didnt have much documentation, so she based her assessment on the information 
which Mrs E had kept  this included some letters, customer services guide and key features 
document. 
Based on this information, the investigator concluded that Virgin didnt advise Mrs E to invest 
at the time. She said that the evidence showed that if Mrs E wanted advice, shed need to 
arrange a meeting and there was no evidence that she did so. As a result, the investigator 
concluded that Virgin didnt do anything wrong by not carrying out a fact find or establishing 
her attitude to risk, as it wasnt required to do this if it didnt provide advice. 
Mrs E didnt agree with the investigator. She said:
This was execution-only trading and based on the research she carried out, this was 
most suitable for experienced investors who were aware of the risks and rewards of 
various types of investments. 
While Virgins original letter about the PEP was generic, it didnt make it absolutely 
clear that Virgin Direct was offering an execution-only service. She said that 
without this knowledge, as an inexperienced investor, even with their facts, [she] 
would not have been aware of the risks and rewards of various types of investment  
so she wouldnt have been able to make an informed decision. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Mrs E has made detailed submissions which I can confirm Ive read and considered very 
carefully. However, where the evidence is contradictory or incomplete, as some of it is here, 
Im required to decide matters on the balance of probabilities. In other words, whats more 
likely than not to have happened. 
In this case, theres a clear dispute of fact around whether Mrs E was in fact provided with 
financial advice at the time  advice which, she says, recommended she invest in this 
particular Growth PEP. 
However, in order for me to conclude that advice was probably given, Id need to see some 
evidence of that advice  at the very least, Id need to see evidence that someone from 
Virgin recommended this particular investment to Mrs E. 
Instead, even based on Mrs Es own testimony of what she remembers from the time, Ive 
seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that any advice was given. Mrs E specifically 
complains that at the time her needs werent assessed, her attitude to risk wasnt 
established and her level of experience wasnt addressed. In fact Ive seen no description of 
the advice Mrs E says she was given. I acknowledge that theres little paperwork on this 
case given the length of time that has passed, but Id like to clarify for Mrs E that promoting 
an investment, and recommending a specific investment to a consumer are two separate 
and distinct activities. I acknowledge Mrs E may have felt encouraged by Virgin to invest in 
this PEP as a result of its marketing material or its brand, but that isnt the same as being 
given advice. 
And whilst Ive taken into account what Mrs E says about the documentation she received at 
the time, Im satisfied Virgin didnt have to make it any clearer that it wasnt providing advice. 
I consider the absence of it to have been sufficient. 
What Virgin was required to do was ensure that its communications with Mrs E were 
accurate and clear, and gave her enough information to be able to make her own decision 
about whether this particular investment was right for her. 
In the customer service guide which explained Virgins offering to Mrs E, I can see theres 
also a section called Financial advice. This section explains that Virgin would be available 
to help with financial planning and that Mrs E couldve contacted it at any time to arrange a 
telephone meeting with an adviser. After that, Virgin would send Mrs E a summary of her 
financial solutions which would explain what options would be suitable for Mrs E going 
forward. 
This evidence indicates that financial advice was something which Mrs E couldve requested 
if she had wanted it  and if it had been provided, Im satisfied there wouldve been some 
documentation confirming what advice was given and why. Given the documents Mrs E has 
kept since that time, I think its likely she wouldve kept a document detailing the advice if 
she had received it. 
I acknowledge that Mrs E says she wasnt an experienced investor at the time, and therefore 
was unable to make the decision to invest on her own. But I dont consider thats something 
Virgin couldve known in advance  and other than inviting Mrs E to obtain further advice, 
which it does in the paperwork she was provided, Im not persuaded theres much more it 
couldve done. Mrs E has said that she mustve been provided advice when she called to 
obtain the application form. But Im not persuaded that this is true  its unlikely she wouldve 
been provided a personal recommendation on the phone in that way. 
And in any event, if she had called to enquire about the investment, Im not persuaded it 
follows that Virgin would necessarily have provided advice to her before sending her the 
application forms or key features of the investment. Given the lack of this documentation, and no other evidence to indicate Mrs E called Virgin 
to ask for advice (either before or after she took out the PEP), Im satisfied that its unlikely 
Virgin gave Mrs E advice to invest in the Growth PEP at the time. Im persuaded its more 
likely than not that Mrs E took out the investment of her own volition. 
As a result, Virgin had no obligation to assess Mrs Es knowledge and experience of 
investing nor her ability to afford this particular investment. It didnt need to ensure that the 
product was right for her. And so whilst I acknowledge Mrs E has raised a number of 
reasons why she doesnt consider this PEP was a suitable product for her at the time, I dont 
consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Virgin responsible for that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 
30 July 2020.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman