DRN-4061332
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) withdrew various mortgage 
deals in response to the Bank of Englands interest rate rises but failed to raise interest rates 
on his savings accounts at the same time. He also complained about the way that NatWest 
dealt with his complaint.
What happened
In late September 2022 Mr G contacted NatWest to log a complaint about the interest rate 
applied to his savings account. Essentially he said that NatWest had pulled various 
mortgage deals immediately in response to the Bank of England interest rate rise but it failed 
to raise the interest rate on the savings account he had with it. He felt this was profiteering. 
He also complained that he had to repeat his complaint several times to different people, 
that his complaint was initially dealt with as a query and about the automated message when 
he was put on hold.
NatWest provided a final response letter in November 2022. Essentially it said it was a 
matter of its commercial judgement as to what interest rates to apply and that it has raised 
the rates on its savings accounts. It said it dealt with Mr Gs complaint properly although it 
did have a high volume of complaints. And it apologised for not changing the automated 
message. It also dealt with Mr Gs complaints of a data breach on the phone and about the 
way he was spoken to.  
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that so far as Mr Gs 
complaint about NatWests complaint handling service was concerned this was out of 
jurisdiction as it didnt concern a regulated activity. I understand Mr G accepted this. As 
regards the complaint about the interest rate our Investigator said this was a commercial 
decision for NatWest. She noted Mr Gs concern that his complaint was dealt with as a query 
and about the automated message but noted that NatWest had apologised and Mr G had 
suffered no detriment.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
complaint handling
I just reiterate here that Mr Gs complaint about NatWests complaint handling procedure, the 
long wait times and the delays caused by this relate to an unregulated activity, so are out of 
our jurisdiction. I have considered the specific aspect of the dealings with Mr Gs particular 
complaint within the other complaints set out below.
interest rates
I understand that Mr G has a savings account with NatWest, but not a mortgage. NatWest 
has pointed out to Mr G that it did in fact raise interest rates on its savings accounts. In any 
event it is a matter of NatWests commercial decision what interest rates it applies and when. 
So long as it applied it fairly to all customers its not a matter I have any power to take any 
action about. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative dispute resolution service. 
Our function is to try to resolve individual complaints informally between the parties. It is not 
the regulator and I have no power to decide matters of policy or principle. Ive noted the 
newspaper article Mr G has supplied but again the political issue about whether Banks have 
done enough to raise the rates on savings at the same time as raising those on mortgages is 
not an issue which I have any power to intervene in.
dealing with a complaint as a query.
Having listened to the telephone calls about this it is clear that Mr G wanted to raise a 
complaint, but NatWest initially dealt with it as a query. Although it thought it had dealt with it, 
by treating it as a query it didnt go through the complaints handling procedure. I can 
understand Mr Gs dissatisfaction with this. However I think NatWest then dealt with it 
appropriately, and apologised for this, so I wont require it to take any further action.
automated message
I understand  that when Mr G was put on hold in the middle of a conversation, a recorded 
message was played advising that the best time to call was between 2 and 5 pm , when he 
was calling between those hours. I understand his annoyance at this, but it appears to be 
something that was simply overlooked in the context of receiving and handling a large 
number of calls.
other issues
For the sake of completeness I just note here other issues dealt with in NatWests final 
response letter. 
Firstly the alleged breach of data protection rules when an adviser called Mr G back without 
going through security details again. If Mr G believes there was a breach of the data 
protection rules that is a matter he can raise with the Information Commissioners Office.
And finally in respect of the calls I listened to, particularly the one where Mr G alleged the 
adviser was rude to him, I dont think there are any issues I would be inclined to require 
NatWest to take any action on.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman