The complaint
Mr K complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
In October 2016, Satsuma gave Mr K a loan of £300. The loan was repayable in 30 weekly 
instalments of £19.90.    
Mr K says that Satsuma shouldnt have given him the loan because at the time, he was a 
full-time student and his only source of income was a student loan and infrequent support 
from family or emergency support from the university. He says that he was using his student 
account overdraft and had applied for multiple payday loans. Mr K says that he made many 
of his repayments late, which caused him stress and meant he incurred late payment 
charges. He says that Satsuma should have asked to see his bank statements in order to 
assess his financial situation at the time. 
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Satsuma acted 
irresponsibly in giving Mr K the loan. 
Mr K didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said, in summary:
He feels Satsuma led him to believe that his student loan and his parents financial
contribution should be counted as income and it should not have done so.
He received his student loan for only nine months of the year and the monthly
repayments were a quarter of his monthly student loan.
His rent is shown as zero but he paid rent of £390 during term time, which is more
than the monthly amount of his student loan.
Satsuma identified that he said his other outgoings were zero but didnt investigate
that further.
His bank balance was around -£2,000 at the time, which was the maximum amount
of his overdraft.
Satsuma didnt check his source of income.
Satsuma didnt consider his history of problem gambling.
The adjudicator considered what Mr K said but didnt change her view. As there was no 
agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
DRN-1847472 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. Having done so, I dont think that 
Satsuma was wrong to lend to Mr K and Ill explain why. 
Mr K told Satsuma that he lived with his parents and that his monthly income was £1,200. 
He said that he had no housing costs, financial commitments or other expenditure. Satsuma 
proceeded on the basis that Mr Ks outgoings were £536.91. It did that after taking into 
account information it had gathered from its searches and based on its internal models. I 
think that approach was fair, as its highly unlikely that an individual has no outgoings, even 
when living with parents. Bearing in mind this was Mr Ks first loan with Satsuma, I dont think that Satsuma was 
required to probe further into what Mr K said. I dont think that proportionate checks required 
Satsuma to ask for Mr Ks bank statements. I think that Satsuma was entitled to rely on what 
Mr K said. So, Satsuma wasnt aware of the true position of Mr Ks finances. 
Satsuma calculated that with a monthly income of £1,200 and assessed outgoings of 
£536.91, Mr K could afford to make the loan repayments of £19.90 a week. I think that was a 
reasonable conclusion.       
Mr K has mentioned his credit report. The information a prospective lender receives from a 
credit check is much more limited than that which Mr K can see from his own credit report. 
Theres nothing in the results of Satsumas credit check that meant it should have decided 
not to lend to Mr K. 
Mr K has referred to incurring late payment charges but Satsuma didnt charge him for late 
payment. It also tried to assist with temporary repayment arrangements when Mr K was in 
difficulty. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Satsuma 
was wrong to lend to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman