DRN-2474186
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the fees theyve been charged by Saunderson House Limited 
(SHL) for their advisory service and about the poor performance of their investment 
portfolios. Mr M brings the complaint on behalf of himself and Mrs M.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M signed an advisory agreement with SHL in March 2014. They agreed the aim 
of their investment was to maximise long term investment returns and that they had a 
cautious to balanced attitude to risk. The agreement set out how fees would be charged.
Mr M told us he had twice raised a dispute about the fees. On one occasion he says the fees 
were unclear and on the other SHL told him a decision about capping fees had been referred 
to its investment committee when it hadnt. He wants SHL to provide a statement confirming 
that its fees are fair, and for it to provide a detailed breakdown of the fee charges. He says 
the fees are high compared to other providers, but that the returns and performance from 
other providers have been better.
Since referring his complaint to this service, SHL gave Mr and Mrs M notice that it was 
terminating the agreement because their relationship had broken down. It says it hasnt 
issued its invoice for fees which have accrued since July 2018, as it is waiting for this dispute 
to be resolved.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He explained why 
he couldnt comment on the performance of the portfolio compared to other providers. He 
concluded that the fees had been charged in line with the client agreement and explained 
why he thought SHL had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr M didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
SHL regularly exceeded its fee estimate. If Mr M hadnt negotiated a lower fee, SHL 
would have unfairly charged the higher amount.
Theres no explanation as to why the fee cap jumped to £15,000 in 2017/2018 - the 
portfolio value was unchanged due to poor performance.
He was told his fee cap was removed following a decision by SHLs committee. When he 
asked to see the meeting minutes, SHL told him the committee hadnt made the 
decision. Mr M says the cap was arbitrarily removed.
SHL made virtually no changes to the portfolio. It should have been more active. Its 
passive approach should have meant lower fees.
Hes not seen time sheets to show how the fees were calculated.
The CEO of SHL has not answered his question about whether he thinks its fees are 
value for money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fees
Our investigator set out in some detail the fees charged each year since the start of the 
agreement. I am not going to repeat that here. Instead I will focus on my reasons for 
concluding that the fees have been fairly charged:
The way SHL calculates and charges its fees was set out in the client agreement which 
Mr and Mrs M signed in March 2014. This said that fees are time based and calculated in 
accordance with its hourly rate. I find the fees in Mr and Mrs Ms case were charged in 
line with the agreement.
The initial fee was capped at £9,000, which was in line with its estimate.
The fee for the period from December 2014 to September 2015 was reduced by 
£1,492.36 and Mr and Mrs M were charged £8,500. Mr M says the fee was reduced after 
hed complained  and that if he hadnt disputed it, SHL would have charged the higher 
amount. But SHL had calculated its fee in line with its agreement. So it wouldnt have 
been wrong to charge the higher amount. It decided to reduce its fee as a gesture of 
goodwill and to help ensure a continued good working relationship. I cant find SHL acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here.
Fees were capped at £13,500 for 2015/16, and £10,000 for 2016/17, which Mr and
Mrs M agreed. I dont find the fee caps, or the way they were put in place, was unfair or 
unreasonable.
A fee cap of £15,000 was agreed for 2017/2018. Mr M says it not clear why the cap 
increased so much. But, for the previous two years, calculated timed fees had exceeded 
the caps set. If find the £15,000 cap was based on actual timed charges for the previous 
year, and I dont find this unreasonable.
A fee cap of £15,000 was also agreed for 2018/2019, but calculated time fees amounted 
to less than the cap, so fees were charged on this basis.
A fee cap was not agreed for 2019/20. Mr M says he was told this followed a decision by 
SHLs Commercials and Exceptions committee. But, when he asked for minutes of the 
committees decision, he was told a mistake had been made  the decision about a fee 
cap hadnt been made by the committee, but by SHLs clients team. I dont find there 
was any obligation on SHL to agree a fee cap. This was reviewed on an annual basis. 
For the 2019/2020 year, SHLs client team decided a fee cap wasnt appropriate. In 
doing so, I dont find it acted unreasonably. 
SHLs April 2019 report to Mr and Mrs M said that the cap arrangement has not been re-
approved by the Saunderson House Commercials and Exceptions Committee for the 
annual period starting 1 April 2019. This was correct, although it did imply the committee 
had been asked to consider it when it hadnt. Mr M feels SHL acted dishonestly and 
misled him. SHL said it made a mistake. The statement in the report was factually 
correct and Im not persuaded SHL set out to mislead Mr and Mrs M. However, it 
apologised, and I dont find it needs to do anything more.Mr M says the fees should have been lower because there werent many changes in the 
investments. But he was paying for a portfolio management service. SHL was regularly 
reviewing his portfolio and, if it made a recommendation not to make any changes, its 
workload would not be that much different to if it recommended a change  it still needed 
to satisfy itself that the portfolio remained suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms agreed investment 
objectives and risk profile.
I dont find theres any obligation on SHL to provide any more detail about its fees to 
Mr M. From what SHL has provided to this service, Im satisfied that it kept detailed 
records and that its fees were charged fairly and in accordance with its agreement.
Mr M has asked SHLs CEO to confirm that he believes the value for money and overall 
performance to be of a good standard. I can see that the CEO responded to his request 
on 18 July 2019. I dont require SHL to take any further action in response to Mr Ms 
request.
SHL has yet to invoice Mr and Mrs M for its fees from July 2018 until the portfolio closed, 
as it was waiting for this dispute to be resolved. I understand it will invoice Mr and Mrs M 
once it has received this decision. I have taken into account SHLs outstanding invoice in 
arriving at my decision that its fees have been charged fairly and reasonably, and as set 
out in the client agreement.
Portfolio performance
Our investigator has already explained why we cant investigate how Mr and Mrs Ms 
portfolio has performed in comparison to portfolios managed by other providers. 
I have carefully considered the information provided by SHL and I am satisfied that the 
investments were suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms agreed investment objectives  maximise 
long term investment returns  and risk profile  cautious to balanced. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs Ms investments were kept under regular review and that the 
portfolio was reviewed in its entirety on at least an annual basis. 
And I find that SHL used an appropriate benchmark to measure the portfolios performance. 
So, whilst I accept that Mr M found the performance of his and Mrs Ms portfolio 
disappointing, I dont find this was because SHL had acted wrongly or unreasonably.
SHL decided to terminate its agreement with Mr and Mrs M in May 2020 because it decided 
their relationship had broken down. I can see that SHL gave Mr and Mrs M notice of its 
decision and, in the circumstances, I dont find it acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman