DRN-2898402
The complaint
Mrs M complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) shouldnt have lent to her because it
ought reasonably to have realised that she might struggle to make her repayments.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was really sorry to hear about Mrs Ms problems and I know my view wont be welcome at
this very difficult time for her. But, having reviewed the information I have, Im afraid that I
dont currently agree with the adjudicators view. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Before agreeing to provide a loan a business should check that the loan is affordable. The
type of checks which a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a
mortgage lender will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue offering a low
credit limit doesnt have to go into so much detail.
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether UK Credit carried out proportionate
checks, and at what information they had been given about Mrs Ms financial circumstances. 
The methods UK Credit used to establish affordability were for them to decide but the
practices and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could
be proportionate to the amount of money being requested.
UK Credit have explained that they reviewed Mrs Ms monthly income and expenditure and
carried out a credit check. I think they sound like reasonable checks given the size of the
loan.
Ive listened to the call they had with Mrs M when they set up the loan. I think the agent
completed a thorough assessment of income and expenditure. She asked about Mrs Ms
income and Mrs M explained that she received a monthly salary of £633, working tax credits
of £359.16 per week (equivalent to £1,556.36 per month) and Disability Living Allowance of
£309.80 per month. Mrs M was asked if her employment was permanent and she explained
it was and that she hadnt been threatened with redundancy. On that basis the agent
recorded Mrs Ms monthly income as £2,498.80. I would agree with that calculation.
The agent went on to consider Mrs Ms outgoings. She compared the figures Mrs M
suggested for items such as rent, pay day loans, power, telephone/broadband and other
loans with the information she had on Mrs Ms credit file and the information provided on her
bank statements. Mrs M confirmed that her monthly outgoings were therefore in the region of
£1,582.
This suggested that her disposable income before the new loan of £280.61 was deducted
would be £2,498.80  £1,582 = £916.30. I think based on that information the loan would
have appeared to be affordable to Mrs M.
Mrs M has explained that she was on sick leave at the time and that she didnt return to work
after December 2012. I dont think its reasonable to expect UK Credit to have been aware of
that information. They asked Mrs M if she had a permanent job and she confirmed that she
had.
So, I think the checks that UK Credit conducted were proportionate and I think their lending
decision was a fair one. Im not therefore expecting to tell UK Credit to take any further
action.
I note that Mrs Ms representatives have also complained about UK Credit not referring
Mrs M to debt advice services. This is not something UK Credit have been asked to look at
previously and theyve objected to us providing our view on the matter. I think, if Mrs M still
has concerns about that, she will need to ask UK Credit to provide a response on that
subject. If she remains dissatisfied she can then escalate that complaint to this service.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mrs M nor UK Credit provided any additional information for me to consider. So, Ive 
not found any reason to change my provisional decision and that now becomes my final 
decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman