DRN-2962796
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about the poor service she says she received from Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited when she made a claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
On 19 December 2020 Mrs R reported a leak coming from the stopcock in her kitchen to her 
insurer, Lloyds. Lloyds asked Mrs R to get a plumber to identify the source of the leak  and 
it explained the plumbing costs wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
Mrs R called back a couple of days later and said she believed the leak was coming from 
underneath the kitchen floor. An agent advised Mrs R of the policy terms and explained she 
would need to get a plumber to understand what the problem was and identify the source of 
the leak before Lloyds could confirm Trace and Access cover. The agent explained to Mrs R 
that she would be responsible for the costs to repair the leak as this wasnt covered. 
In a third call - four days after the first call - Mrs R told Lloyds a plumber had identified the 
source of the leak from underneath the kitchen floor. Lloyds instructed a contractor to attend 
Mrs Rs property. The agent explained that Mrs R would be responsible for the repair costs 
of the leak. 
Mrs R raised a complaint. She says she wasnt given correct information by Lloyds. 
In January 2021 Lloyds replied to Mrs Rs complaint. It said it would only engage the Trace 
and Access cover once a professional had attended and had been unsuccessful in 
reasonably determining the location of the leak.
As Mrs R had confirmed in the third call that a plumber had attended, had confirmed the leak 
was beneath the concrete floor and advised he did not have the means to access the leak, 
the Trace and Access cover was engaged and Lloyds appointed a contractor. So Mrs R 
didnt pay for the costs to trace and access the leak. But Lloyds wasnt responsible for the 
costs to repair the leak. Lloyds went on to deal with Mrs Rs escape of water claim.
So Lloyds didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint as it said it had acted within the terms of the 
policy. 
In May 2021 Mrs R brought her complaint to us. She said the service shed received from 
Lloyds was disgusting. She said shed been given the wrong information in the first two calls 
about Trace and Access cover. 
Mrs R said due to the delay in dealing with her claim, they had no heating or hot water over 
Christmas. She said she and her husband are pensioners and due to Covid restrictions they 
couldnt go to family or friends instead. 
Mrs R said there was considerable upheaval as her washing machine was left in the middle 
of the kitchen floor and unusable for several weeks. She said it was uncomfortable having to 
live in the home while the repair works and drying out took place for around eight weeks. 
Our investigator explained that we can only look at the complaints Mrs R raised with Lloyds 
and that she had received a reply about. Mrs R said she understood. She also said she 
understood that the drying out was a necessary part of the repairs. The investigator asked 
Mrs R if she had been offered alternative accommodation. Mrs R confirmed she hadnt. She 
reiterated that she was very unhappy with the service she received when she first tried to 
claim under the Trace and Access part of her policy in December 2020. 
In June 2021 Lloyds confirmed it would look separately at Mrs Rs complaints about the 
drying out time and whether it should have offered Mrs R alternative accommodation  as it 
said these were new issues it hadnt previously investigated. 
Lloyds provided a copy of the report from its contractor who visited Mrs Rs home on 30 
December 2020. The report said the leak was coming from a failed heating pipe. The 
contractor said he showed Mrs R how to isolate the flow of water to stop the leak completely. 
But as this meant they would be without heating or hot water, Mrs R said she would rather 
mop up the water in the kitchen than be without heating. So Lloyds said this suggests they 
were not without heating over the Christmas period. 
Lloyds said it would be unfair to hold it responsible for the inconvenience caused due to an 
uninsured loss and for something that needed to be fixed privately. 
In July 2021 our investigator issued his view. He found that Lloyds had given Mr R correct 
information about what her policy covers her for when she reported the leak in the calls she 
made with it. The contractor completed trace and access works three working days after Mrs 
Rs claim was approved, which he thought was reasonable. As Mrs R was responsible for 
the costs to repair the leak, the investigator couldnt say Lloyds was responsible for Mrs R 
being left with no hot water or heating. So he didnt recommend her complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She says our investigator hasnt properly understood her complaint. She 
said she was unhappy that an agent at Lloyds called her without warning and she was 
unhappy with the discussion she had with an agent of couple of days later about her 
complaint. 
She says the reply to her complaint from Lloyds didnt address what she complained about. 
Mrs R is unhappy with information she says a builder told her about Lloyds when instructing 
a surveyor. She says she didnt raise a complaint about not being provided with alternative 
accommodation  this was something the investigator had asked her. 
Mrs R asked for a call recording from Lloyds when she discussed her complaint with it, 
which we have provided. In response, Mrs R says she hadnt made a complaint  but was 
unhappy that before she could complain in writing, Lloyds had called her to discuss her 
complaint without any prior warning. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Rs policy says the following:
If there is damage to your buildings caused by:Escape of water from any domestic appliance or any fixed domestic water 
installation, or freezing of water in fixed domestic water or heating systems; or
Escape of oil from any fixed domestic oil installation;
and you cannot reasonably determine the location of the leak, then we will pay the 
cost of removing and replacing any part of your buildings necessary and making 
good.
By reasonably determine the location of the leak we mean, for example, if there is a 
water stain on your ceiling, directly below your bath, it is reasonable to determine that 
the location of the leak is the bath.
The damage caused by the escape of water or escape of oil is covered under points 
9 and 11 of What we cover of your Buildings  Private residence cover.
Ive listened to the call Mrs R made to this service asking us to look at her complaint. I 
understand Mrs R is of the view that the third agent acted correctly, but the previous agents 
didnt help her. But from listening to the key calls with Lloyds, I dont think this is true. In the 
third call, Mrs R confirmed that a plumber had been able to identify the location of the leak. 
So it was then possible for Lloyds to confirm it could act under the Trace and Access part of 
the policy. 
I think it was apparent that a plumber was needed to identify the source of the leak, given 
that Mrs R believed it was coming from the stopcock when she first called. 
In the second call Mrs R said they thought the leak was coming from a different location - 
underneath the floor. She explained that the leak occurred when they put on the heating. 
The agent explained that until a plumber identifies the source of the leak, Lloyds wasnt able 
to confirm if it can assist under the Trace and Access part of the policy.
In the call where Mrs R discussed her complaints with a complaints manager at Lloyds, I 
think the manager was polite and took on board the concerns Mrs R had and agreed to look 
into them. A week later Lloyds issued its final response to Mrs Rs complaint. It explained 
that it would only engage the Trace and Access cover once a professional had attended and 
had been unsuccessful in reasonably determining the location of the leak. As Mrs R had 
confirmed during the third call to it that a plumber had attended, had confirmed the leak was 
beneath the concrete floor and also advised he did not have the means to access the leak, 
the Trace and Access cover was engaged and it appointed a supplier to assist. 
I appreciate that Mrs R is very unhappy with the information she was given by Lloyds. But I 
found the agents were polite and provided Mrs R with correct information in the calls. So I 
cant say that the service Mrs R received from Lloyds here was unreasonable. In all calls the 
agents explained that the repairs to the leak arent covered under the policy. So I think 
Lloyds dealt with Mrs Rs complaint reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman