DRN-4307462
The complaint
Mr C complains that Brighton Williams & Partners (BW) gave him misleading advice about 
how a payment from his pension, which was the subject of an Earmarking Order, would be 
taxed. He complains hes suffered financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr C had a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with a pension provider (who Ill refer to 
as S). Hed transferred his pension from an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to the 
SIPP in 2009  after taking advice from his adviser at that time.
At the time of the transfer he says S was informed there was an Earmarking Order which 
applied to his pension. The Order stated, among other things, that Mr C was to pay his 
former spouse (who Ill refer to as W) 50% of the maximum lump sum and then 33% of the 
retirement pension payable monthly under the terms of his OPS.
He appointed BW as his new independent financial adviser (IFA) in or about 2014. At that 
time BW contacted S to query whether it was aware of the Earmarking Order. It said it was 
not aware of the Order but that it would mark its records accordingly.
In 2021, Mr C wanted to bring his pension into payment. He contacted BW for advice. He 
says hed been in touch with W about the Earmarking Order and he wanted to settle things. 
He says it was only at this stage that BW told him S could not make periodic payments to W. 
BW told him that S said it could pay W 50% of the maximum tax free cash amount and it 
would also pay W 33% of the residual pension as a single lump sum.
Mr C says that BW advised him it was still reasonable to proceed in this way and that hed 
be responsible for tax on the lump sum payment for 33% of the residual pension. He says 
that BW told him he could account for the tax that was due through his normal self- 
assessment returns and that he could take other measures to ensure he didnt trip into the 
40% tax bracket for the relevant tax year. He says he understood hed have to pay 20% tax 
on the taxable lump sum payment to W.
He asked BW to proceed on that basis.
Mr C says that after the payment to W was made he discovered S had grossed up the 
payment. It had deducted almost 55% of his residual pension which included a significant 
sum for income tax deducted at source. Even though Mr C has subsequently been able to 
get a refund of some of this tax from HMRC, he says hes paid over £8,000 of avoidable tax. 
Mr C says that BWs failure to identify that he would pay higher rate tax precluded him from 
arranging his affairs differently and in a more tax efficient way. He says he could have 
purchased an annuity for W or gone to court to challenge how S chose to interpret the 
Earmarking Order.
He complained to BW. BW investigated his complaint.
 
BW said Mr C had made clear to it in 2021 he wanted to draw a line under matters with W. 
It told him about the various options open to him regarding the payment of the residual 
pension after the maximum tax free cash sum had been paid. This included purchasing an 
annuity in the way set out in the Earmarking Order  which S could have done. BW 
explained why it had not recommended this option.
BW said it had carried out its own research and had also approached S for guidance about 
how the Earmarking Order would be implemented.
 After carrying out its own research into Earmarking Orders and contacting S for guidance, 
BW said it advised Mr C to settle the Earmarking Order under drawdown rules. When 
making that recommendation it had taken a number of factors into account including:
S said it could only facilitate drawdown by making a single cash sum payment to W in 
respect of the residual pension;
BW had considered the tax implications. BW said its advisers recollection was that S 
had told him Mr C could account for the tax on the payment to W through his self- 
assessment tax returns. BW said that there was nothing in the information provided 
by S which alerted it to the fact that the payment would be grossed up or that an 
emergency tax code would be used. It had relied on the information provided by S in 
good faith. S now acknowledged it had not told BW the payment would be grossed 
up and tax deducted at source  putting Mr C into a higher tax bracket.
Ss failure to provide full details of the logistics of how the Earmarking Order would 
be implemented meant that BW wasnt able to consider other options.
BW said that it should not be held responsible for making a recommendation based on a 
reasonable level of research and contact with the pensions technical department of the 
provider. It did not agree that its adviser had given Mr C unsuitable advice. Mr C did not 
agree. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. She didnt think BW had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. She thought BW had considered all of the options available to Mr C and had 
recommended an action that resulted in the Earmarking Order being settled. She said she 
was satisfied overall that BW had carried out research about how the Earmarking Order 
payment would be taxed and had advised Mr C based on the information it had received. 
She didnt think it had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed relied entirely on what he was being told by BW and even if 
theyd been misled by S they were still liable to him. Hed only wanted to settle the 
Earmarking Order and close matters because he was advised that he would not incur 
anything other than basic rate tax. Had he known that the lump sum from the residual 
pension would be grossed up, he would have pursued an alternative course of action.
A new investigator was appointed by our service and he looked into everything again. He 
said that in his view BW had erroneously interpreted the likely tax position. Had it carried out 
sufficient due diligence on the taxation implications it would have identified the fact that the 
payment would be grossed up and taxed on a week one month one basis. Despite this our 
investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr C wouldve drawn the benefits by other means. Our 
investigator said that the fact it hadnt forewarned him about the tax implications had caused 
upset and inconvenience. He thought BW should pay Mr C £500 by way of compensation for 
the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr C didnt agree. Our investigator didnt change his view. So, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in which I said:What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that he wouldve arranged his affairs differently, and 
avoided approximately £8,000 of income tax, if BW had given him suitable advice 
about how to settle the Earmarking Order with W.
There is no dispute about the payment to W of 50% of the tax free cash sum. So, in 
this decision, Ill only be commenting on the advice given to Mr C about how the 
other part of the Earmarking Order should be settled. In this regard, the Earmarking 
Order stated:
direct the Pension Scheme [which was the OPS] to pay or cause to be 
paid as from the date of the retirement, periodical payments at the rate of 
33% of the pension payable under the terms of the Order.
Ive looked at the advice that BW provided to Mr C. That advice was set out in its 
suitability letter dated 28 June 2021. But before commenting on the information in the 
suitability letter, its important to consider the previous conversations that took place 
between Mr C and BW, specifically in relation to how the payment would be taxed.
I can see that on 21 April 2021 Mr C sent an email to BW. He said:
I was working on the basis that I have to take from the earmarked SIPP 
enough funds to account for the tax liability on the [amount of the 33% share 
of the residual pension value] I have to give [W]. If they deducted 20% at 
source, I would require a withdrawal of [£x], a further [£x] which would put me 
into 40% tax band.
But it sounds like S wont treat this as normal income and tax it at basic rate 
 is that right? If so, from what youre saying I can take the net amount
Furthermore when would it fall due
BW responded the same day as follows:
I checked this out with S who confirmed that the Order instructs them to pay 
(on latest values) [amount of the 33% share of the residual pension value] 
tax-free direct to W. Therefore you are obliged to include the payment in a tax 
return for
Theres no documentary evidence to show that S had given BW the confirmation 
referred to in its email. And, it became apparent after the payment had been 
processed that the information provided by BW to Mr C in this email did not align with 
what actually happened. The payment to W was grossed up and tax was deducted at 
source.
Following the email exchanges in April 2021, BW issued its suitability letter to Mr C in 
June 2021. By way of summary the suitability letter stated:
Mr Cs objective was to settle the earmarked benefits under this SIPP and he 
sought advice about the appropriate way to fund the withdrawals required to 
finalise the Earmarking Order;
BW recommended that he access the SIPP via flexi access drawdown  
drawing the maximum tax free cash sum and then making an initial drawdown 
of the amount required to pay 33% of the residual pension lump sum to W.
BW said that S had insisted that both elements must be paid to W 
simultaneously.The reasons for the recommendation were:
o Mr C could draw 25% of the plan as a tax free lump sum and would 
also be provided with access to a Flexi access drawdown where the 
remaining 75% would be held automatically
o He could draw 33% of the remaining value as a taxable lump sum to 
be paid to W and this would complete the Earmarking Order
o Because of Ss insistence that both payments were taken 
simultaneously this was the only option by which benefits could be 
paid to comply with the Earmarking Order. Benefits could not be paid 
via an annuity or Uncrystallised Fund Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS)
o Mr C did not require an additional income for himself. His share of 
the tax free lump sum could be used to alleviate his tax requirements 
as the lump sum being paid to W will be taxed on you.
Having looked at the exchange of emails and the suitability letter, I agree with our 
investigator when he said that BW had erroneously interpreted the likely tax position.
I say this despite the fact that it appears BW did carry out some research into 
Earmarking Orders. But I wouldve expected it to have taken further steps to have 
confirmed the position regarding how the payment would be taxed before responding 
to Mr Cs email of 21 April 2021. In that email Mr C was challenging the information 
BW had provided to him about how the payment would be taxed and he was asking 
for clarification that what he thought would be the position was infact incorrect. BW 
should have taken more care before it responded to that email. It did not seek or 
obtain any written confirmation from S before it responded to Mr C. This would have 
been important because, as it acknowledges itself, this was not something its adviser 
had dealt with previously.
Ive also noted that BW proceeded to issue the suitability letter without any written 
confirmation from S that Mr C could account for the tax on the payment on his next 
tax return.
So, Ive provisionally decided that BW made an error when it told Mr C that he could 
account for the tax through his next tax return.
What needs to be done to put things right
Where, as happened here, a business has provided incorrect information to a 
consumer I need to consider whether the consumer relied on that information and, if 
so, whether he changed his position as a result. I then need to consider what (if any) 
detriment he suffered as a consequence of that change in position. In order to assess 
that its important to understand what Mr C says he wouldve done had BW given him 
the correct information. I can then compare that to the outcome that happened.
Mr C says that if he had been given the correct information he would have acted 
differently. Hes put forward a number of alternative actions he might have taken 
which Ill consider further below. But, before doing so, its important to note that the 
reason why Mr C had gone to BW in March/April 2021 for advice was because hed 
been approached by W and he wanted to settle things with her. That objective was 
confirmed in the suitability letter BW sent to Mr C on 28 June 2021. It said:
You have decided you wish to settle the earmarked benefits You would 
like me to recommend the appropriate way of funding the withdrawals 
required to finalise the Earmarking OrderMr C says he was reliant on BW to advise him how to settle matters and he had no 
thoughts on how the Order might be settled. Had BW given him the correct 
information about how a single payment would be taxed he says he would have 
made alternative arrangements. Ill consider each of the alternatives that hes put 
forward below.
He would have arranged an annuity to make the payments to W
Mr C says he never had any intention to settle the Earmarking Order by a single 
transaction. He had no thoughts on how the regular payments might be settled. But 
he says that BW told him S would not permit periodic  payments to be made.
It is the case that in the suitability letter BW told Mr C that [S] has insisted that both 
elements {the tax free cash and the 33% share of the residual fund] must be paid to 
[W] simultaneously.
However, this advice was in the context that BW was recommending that Mr C 
should access his pension with S by means of a Flexi-Access Drawdown product. 
Theres no evidence to indicate that S could not have facilitated the implementation 
of the Earmarking Order by means of an annuity. Ive noted that the Order stated that 
S (rather than Mr C himself) should pay W 33% of the annuity payments.
BW did not recommend that Mr C drawdown his benefits by way of an annuity. The 
reason for this was nothing to do with any issues S might have had administering the 
terms of the Earmarking Order. But rather it was because BW had established that 
Mr C did not require an additional income at the time as he already had sufficient 
income from other sources to meet his needs. So, I think it was fair and reasonable, 
in these circumstances for BW to consider an alternative product to settle the 
Earmarking Order.
Ive also noted that in October 2021, even after the payment had been made, BW did 
not change its view about the recommendation it had made. BW told Mr C at that 
time:
I firmly believe that drawdown rather than the annuity route serves your best 
interests despite the taxation issues
So, having considered everything, Im persuaded that BW would not have 
recommended an annuity even if it had properly understood how the payment would 
be taxed. And Im also not persuaded that Mr C wouldve taken out an annuity 
product, in the absence of advice from BW recommending that course of action.
He would have arranged monthly drawdowns from his pension to make the 
periodic payments to W.
BW did consider this option. It asked S whether it could arrange for monthly 
drawdowns to be paid to W. S was not obliged under the terms of the Earmarking 
Order to facilitate this request. It told BW Mr C could defer taking his benefits for as 
long as he wanted (although W could challenge him). But, if he wanted to take 
income drawdown it would pay W 33% of the residual fund as a lump sum rather 
than by deducting 33% from each income drawdown. S said it couldnt administer 
splitting monthly drawdown payments.
For the same reasons as BW had not recommended that Mr C take out an annuity, it 
didnt recommend the monthly drawdown option. Because even if S had been able to facilitate monthly drawdown, part of each monthly drawdown payment wouldve been 
added to Mr Cs own income  which was something he didnt need or want. So, Im 
not persuaded that Mr C would or couldve opted for monthly drawdown payments.
He would have settled the Earmarking Order by making a cash payment, from 
his other resources, for Ws 33% share in the residual pension rather than 
taking out the flexi income product
BW recommended the flexi income product. This meant that Mr C could drawdown 
the amount he needed to settle things with W but leave the rest of his fund invested 
until he needed to access it himself. The suitability letter indicated that by taking this 
course Mr C would be able to complete the Earmarking Order.
Mr C says he approached W on the basis of BWs recommendation and she agreed 
that this would settle matters as far as she was concerned. Theres no evidence that 
Mr C sought legal advice or approached the court to seek a variation of the 
Earmarking Order which had stated that periodical payments were to be made to W. 
Nevertheless, Im satisfied on balance that both Mr C and BW reasonably believed 
that the proposal would meet his objective which was to settle things with W.
Mr C says that he wouldnt have taken this option had he known about the tax 
implications. Instead he says he may have decided to make a cash payment to W. 
Mr C has provided evidence that he could have funded such a cash payment from 
his other resources.
But Im not persuaded, taking everything into account, that such a payment would 
have settled the Earmarking Order without him also having to go back to court to 
ask for the Earmarking Order to be varied and/or discharged. And, I cannot be 
certain, if hed done that, whether his application wouldve been successful or what a 
court may have decided. So, Im not persuaded, on balance, its fair or reasonable to 
say that he couldve made a cash payment to settle the Earmarking Order or that BW 
shouldve recommended that course of action to him.
He would have gone to court to challenge Ss interpretation of the Order
Mr C says that had he known S would gross up the payment and then deduct income 
tax at source using an emergency tax coding he wouldve gone to court to challenge 
its interpretation of the Earmarking Order. If he had chosen to do that I cannot be 
certain what the outcome would have been.
When thinking about whether its likely he would have taken this course, Ive also 
considered what he himself believed when he wrote to BW on 21 April 2021. It 
appears from reading that email (set out above) that he was working on the basis 
that the payment would be grossed up and tax would be deducted at source  albeit 
he undercalculated the grossed up amount and the amount of tax he would have to 
pay. BWs response to this email was that he could include the payment in his next 
tax return  that advice was incorrect.
But nevertheless this email exchange shows that even though Mr C thought the 
payment would be grossed up and that would put him into a higher tax bracket he 
was still content to proceed to settle the Earmarking Order by making the single 
payment to W. So, although tax was a factor in his overall decision making, it was not 
the overriding factor. If it had been, he couldve pursued the other options BW had 
told him about, such as deferment, which wouldnt have resulted in any tax having to 
be paid at the time.So, Im not persuaded, on balance, that had BW given him the correct interpretation 
of the taxation position, it wouldve changed what he decided to do - given that his 
overarching objective was to settle the matter with W.
Having considered everything here, Im persuaded on balance that even if BW had 
correctly explained the taxation position to Mr C he would still have proceeded in the 
same way. For that reason, Ive provisionally decided that despite BWs erroneous 
interpretation of the tax position, its not fair or reasonable to say that Mr Cs suffered 
any financial loss as a result of relying on its advice.
Distress and Inconvenience
As our investigator said, it did come as an unpleasant surprise to Mr C when he 
realised that the payment would be grossed up and he would be taxed on the week 
one month one basis. And although, for the reasons set out above, Im currently not 
persuaded he suffered any financial loss as a result, I agree its fair and reasonable 
that BW should pay Mr C £500 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of what happened here. BW has 
indicated, without acceptance of liability, it is willing to make that payment.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Brighton Williams & Partners. I intend to require it to take the 
following action:
Pay Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result 
of what happened.
BW did not respond to my provisional decision.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision. He did not agree that he would have proceeded 
in the same way had BW given him correct advice about the tax implications. By way of 
summary he said:
Most people would try to avoid paying tax if it was legally possible. Avoiding 
avoidable tax was his overriding factor. His overarching objective was not 
settlement with W. It made sense to settle the Earmarking Order only 
because he believed he could do so without incurring higher rate tax.
He was not and had never been a higher rate tax-payer and always sought 
to avoid being a higher rate tax-payer.
His email of 21 April 2021 was part of an ongoing discussion and did not 
reflect a decision hed made.
He said there was no good reason for BW not to have recommended an 
annuity. He did not agree that he had sufficient income from other sources to 
meet his needs. Income from other sources was from drawdown pensions, 
which could be stopped at any time.
BW could have pressed S harder to get it to provide drawdown payments.
He would have approached W and used funding from other sources to settle 
the Earmarking Order. He said this wouldve been acceptable to her. 
Although he mightve had to pay court costs and possibly also had to 
negotiate an additional payment to W, he was confident he would still have 
saved a significant sum.BW had made a without prejudice offer to settle matters at an earlier stage. 
He had not accepted or declined the offer but had advised that the proposed 
amount had not been calculated correctly.
S hadnt proceeded in accordance with its instruction.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr C has said in response to my provisional decision. Although I know 
that Mr C feels strongly about this matter, Im not persuaded to change my view as set out in 
my provisional decision. Ill explain why:
Id just comment firstly that although Mr C remains of the view that S didnt act in accordance 
with his instruction, that issue was the subject of a separate complaint about S. So, I wont 
be dealing with that issue here. 
Mr C has also referred to correspondence from BW which included an offer to assist in 
mitigating the effect of the situation. The offer was made expressly without acceptance of 
liability on the part of BW. Although Mr C says he didnt accept or decline the offer, he did 
ask BW to issue its final response letter so that he could refer his complaint to our service. 
So, I dont think its fair or reasonable for me to comment further on the offer that was made.
Mr C says his overarching objective was not to settle the Earmarking Order but rather to 
avoid paying avoidable tax. Ive carefully considered everything which provides details about 
the circumstances which existed at the time when Mr C approached BW for advice.
Mr C said in his complaint letter to BW that hed been approached by W when hed reached 
his retirement date under the original pension plan. So, Im satisfied that responding to the 
approach that W had made was an important consideration for Mr C at the time when he 
sought advice from BW.
It is also the case that S was on notice of the Earmarking Order. So, if Mr C wanted to 
access the SIPP he had to take account of the provisions of the Earmarking Order. 
Ive then noted that in the Suitability Letter issued to Mr C in June 2021 BW set out, at the 
start of that letter, its understanding of his objectives and the reason why it had been asked 
to give him advice. The letter stated:
Summary of your objectives
We have agreed the following:
1. You have now decided that you wish to settle the earmarked benefits under 
your [S] SIPP to [W]. Following your decision, you would like me to 
recommend the appropriate way of funding the withdrawals required to 
finalise the earmarking order.
No other objectives were summarised in the letter. Theres no evidence that Mr C challenged 
the information in the letter or said, as he now argues, that his overriding objective was to 
avoid tax and that settling the Earmarking Order was a secondary consideration.  I also commented in my provisional decision about the other options that were open to Mr C 
had he wanted to avoid tax. Mr C acknowledged in his complaint letter to BW that it had told 
him he could defer taking any of the benefits under the SIPP. If hed chosen that option he 
could have avoided, or at least deferred paying tax  but he didnt choose that option.
Mr C says that his email dated 21 April 2021 needs to be considered in the context that it 
was part of an ongoing discussion. It was written prior to him making a decision about how to 
proceed. Nevertheless, I remain of the view that it was indicative of Mr Cs thinking at the 
time. As he said in the email he was working on the basis that the payment would be 
grossed up and tax would be deducted at source  albeit he undercalculated the grossed up 
amount and the amount of tax he would have to pay. So, his email indicated the basis he 
was working on at the time  it did not say anything to the effect that he was not prepared to 
proceed if his understanding that the payment would be grossed up and tax deducted at 
source was correct. 
So, although as I stated in my provisional decision, tax was a consideration, I remain of the 
view that Mr Cs overarching objective when he sought advice was to settle matters with W.
Mr C has reiterated in his response to the provisional decision that he had always wanted to 
take the benefits from the SIPP as an annuity. He doesnt agree that BWs reasoning for not 
recommending an annuity was valid. He disputes that he had sufficient income from other 
sources. He says that the other sources were drawdown pensions which couldve stopped at 
any time.
When thinking about what Mr C says, I have to take into account the circumstances which 
existed at the time when the advice was given to him. The suitability letter explained that BW 
was recommending that Mr C take out a flexi access drawdown product. And the suitability 
letter stated that one of the reasons for this recommendation was that Mr C did not require 
an additional income at the time. So, Im satisfied that, at the time, Mr C was aware BW was 
not recommending that he take out an annuity and that BW believed he did not require an 
additional income. 
If, as he says, hed always wanted to take out an annuity and he didnt have sufficient 
income from other sources, I think he would have challenged the information in the suitability 
letter. But, theres no evidence that he challenged the information in the suitability letter at 
the time.
Mr C also thinks that BW should have pressed S harder to get it to agree to implement 
monthly drawdowns to W. But, as I said in my provisional decision, S said it couldnt 
accommodate this request and it wasnt obligated under the terms of the Earmarking Order 
to agree to this request either. 
In my provisional decision, I had commented on Mr Cs view that he couldve approached W 
and asked her to agree to discharge the Earmarking Order on the basis that he paid her the 
required amount from other resources. He acknowledges there wouldve been costs 
associated with this and also possibly an additional payment wouldve had to be paid to W. 
He estimates the additional costs at no more than £1,000 with possibly a further payment of 
no more than £1,000 to W. But, he says that would be a lot less than the £8,000 of avoidable 
tax hes had to pay.
I said I could not be certain, if hed asked the court to discharge the Earmarking Order, 
whether his application wouldve been successful or what a court may have decided. I 
remain of that view. Although Mr C feels confident that a court wouldve agreed to discharge the Order and W 
wouldve consented, perhaps subject to certain conditions, I cannot say what a court might 
have decided. The court wouldve taken into consideration all legal and factual matters 
before reaching its determination. Although Mr C says hes no doubt that W wouldve 
consented, he does acknowledge that if he had gone back to court he may have had to enter 
into negotiations with W and may have had to pay her an additional sum which he estimates 
at around £1,000. But, despite what Mr C says, its not possible to say what the outcome 
wouldve been or whether he wouldve been advised to go back to court to ask for the Order 
to be discharged. 
So, having considered everything again, I havent received any new or further information 
that persuades me to change my view, as set out in my provisional decision about how this 
complaint should be resolved. I remain of the view that even if BW had correctly explained 
the tax position to Mr C, its likely, on balance, he wouldve proceeded in the same way. I 
also remain of the view that although Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable to say that
Mr C suffered any financial loss as a result of relying on BWs advice, I think it is fair and 
reasonable to require BW to pay him £500 for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Brighton Williams & Partners. I 
require it to take the following action:
Pay Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result 
of what happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman