DRN-3539100
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined their travel
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have travel insurance cover as a benefit through their bank account. This
insurance is underwritten by UKI.
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs H booked flights for a trip abroad, departing in July 2020. Due
to Mr Hs pre-existing medical condition, they didnt travel and so they made a claim to UKI
for the unused flights.
UKI declined the claim. It said that the medical upgrade which had previously been in place
to cover Mr Hs medical condition hadnt been renewed when it expired in March 2020. And
this meant there was no cover in place for this pre-existing medical condition at the time
when Mr and Mrs H cancelled the trip.
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs H complained to UKI and brought the matter to this
service. Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint. However, he subsequently
asked UKI to provide a retrospective quote for the renewal of the medical upgrade. UKI said
it was unable to provide this information due to system changes. As this couldnt be
provided, our investigator said the claim should be paid.
Mr and Mrs H agreed with out investigators view but UKI didnt. As no agreement could be
reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
On 23 May 2022, I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I currently think it was fair for
UKI to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy Mr and Mrs H hold with UKI details what it will and wont provide cover for.
Under the cancellation section it states it doesnt provide cover for cancellation claims as a
result of medical conditions. The policy defines the term medical conditions as Any illness
or injury for which, at the date you became an insured person or the date when you
booked your trip, whichever is later you would have answered yes to any of the questions
in the Medical Screening section
The medical screening section says the following:
Medical Screening
Please read this section carefully. If you dont tell us about a medical condition,
you and anyone else insured by this policy will not be covered for any claim
connected to your medical condition.
The policy goes on to list all of the conditions and scenarios which UKI require to be
declared. It then explains what then happens.
What happens when you tell us about a medical condition
 If you tell us about a medical condition, depending on your answers we will do
one of the following:
 Cover your condition for free.
 Ask you to pay an extra premium to cover your medical condition.
 Exclude cover for all medical conditions and any related conditions.
A related condition is any condition that you are more likely to suffer from due to
your medical condition.
If you do not want to pay any extra premium you can choose to exclude cover for all
medical conditions and anything related to them.
Arranging cover for your medical conditions
When we accept a medical condition a Medical Upgrade will be added to your
cover. In most cases this will apply for 12 months, unless your health changes and
we can no longer cover your medical condition, or until the expiry of any upgrade
or endorsement that is already in place, whichever is sooner.
The policy also provides information about renewing the medical upgrade. It says:
Renewal of your Medical Upgrade
Before your upgrade ends we will send you a renewal invitation. You may need to
contact us so we can re-assess your medical conditions. It is important that you
do so before your Medical Upgrade is due to end to make sure that we can continue
to cover your medical conditions.
If we are unable to continue covering your medical conditions at renewal and you
have a trip booked you can make a cancellation claim.
Our medical risk assessment system is regularly updated. This means that the cover
we offer for your medical conditions and the premium may change at renewal even
if your medical conditions or circumstances have not changed.
Was the claim declined fairly?
Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip in July 2020, as a result of Mr Hs medical condition and
advice received for him not to travel. There appears to be no dispute that Mr H has amedical condition as defined by the policy and that this was the cause of the cancellation.
This condition was declared to UKI in March 2019 and a medical upgrade was added to the
cover, for which Mr and Mrs H had to pay an additional premium.
The upgrade covering Mr Hs medical condition expired in early March 2020. UKI has
confirmed that it sent letters to Mr and Mrs H to let them know this was due for renewal prior
to it expiring. Mr and Mrs H have said that they chose not to renew.
The policy states that medical upgrades apply for 12 months and that Mr and Mrs H needed
to renew the upgrade in order to ensure that the medical condition could continue to be
covered. As Mr and Mrs H didnt renew the upgrade, cover for Mr Hs medical condition was
no longer provided after it expired. The cancellation of their trip occurred in July 2020, after
the expiry of the upgrade.
Im satisfied that the policy terms and conditions make it clear that claims caused by a
policyholders medical conditions wont be covered unless theyve been declared to and
accepted by UKI. And I currently find that the policy terms make it sufficiently clear that cover
for a policyholders accepted medical conditions will only last for the 12-month period of the
upgrade. Even though Mr and Mrs H may have booked the trip when the upgrade was still
valid, they needed to renew the upgrade in order for cover for the condition to be continued.
Im therefore persuaded that UKIs decision to decline the claim is fair.
Mr and Mrs H have pointed out that they think Mrs Hs part of the claim should be paid as it
wasnt her medical condition which caused her to cancel. However, the policy does state that
it wont cover claims for any insured person on the policy if the cause of the claim is a
medical condition which hasnt been accepted for cover. Mrs H was cancelling her portion of
the trip due to Mr Hs medical condition and therefore her part of the cancellation cost would
also be excluded from cover.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint was previously upheld based on the way this
service usually considers complaints involving insurance misrepresentation. This refers to
when a policyholder withholds information from, or provides inaccurate information to, an
insurer when taking out a policy. When looking at such complaints, we may ask an insurer to
provide details of what would have happened if the policyholder had given the correct
information. And in certain situations, we may ask an insurer to reconsider the claim.
However, I dont think that this applies here. I say this because Mr and Mrs H didnt provide
inaccurate information or withhold information from the insurer when taking out or renewing
their policy, which could be considered as a misrepresentation. Mr and Mrs H simply chose
not to renew the upgrade which provided them with the additional cover for Mr Hs medical
conditions as explained in the policy terms and conditions. So, Im not persuaded UKI needs
to do anything further.
In summary then, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Hs position, I currently think UKI acted
fairly when it turned down Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
UKI didnt respond but Mr and Mrs H did reply. Ive summarised their comments below:
The insurance isnt a benefit  it is paid for with a sum each month. There are certain 
other requirements needed to have the account. On top of this monthly amount they 
have paid a sum yearly for the medical upgrade for Mr Hs medical condition. 
They didnt renew the upgrade as Mr H was self-isolating and their holiday 
destination was in lockdown. They saw no reason to do so as no holidays were being 
booked. But they continued to pay the monthly fee.They question why UKI are unable to locate Mr Hs details of his medical condition 
and feel this is unjust. Also they state that company records should be kept for 
around six years and find it worrying that a large organisation has lost this data.
In the advertising for the insurance it says that it covers travel disruption for natural 
disasters, and they feel Covid comes under this heading. So, the claim should be 
covered.
As loyal customers of the bank for 47 years, they feel the complaint should be 
upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the comments made by Mr and Mrs H and Ive considered them very carefully. 
However, these dont persuade me to alter the outcome from what Id provisionally decided. 
Firstly, in relation to the way Mr and Mrs H receive their insurance, I fully appreciate that this 
insurance is only provided to them on the basis they pay the monthly account fee. The 
payment of the account fee enables Mr and Mrs H to obtain several different insurances, 
including the travel insurance in relation to this complaint. I apologise if calling this a benefit 
caused any offence, it certainly wasnt intended to do so.
I understand why Mr and Mrs H decided not to renew the upgrade in March 2020, especially 
as it wasnt known at that time when travel would be permitted again. However, by not 
renewing they were no longer insured for any claims relating to Mr Hs medical conditions. 
And that included the trip which is the subject of this complaint. As the cause of the 
cancellation of the trip was Mr Hs illness, and there wasnt a medical upgrade in place for 
this condition at the time of the cancellation, Im satisfied that the claim isnt covered.
Mr and Mrs H say the claim should be covered as it was caused by Covid and that would be 
considered as a natural disaster. I have looked at the policy wording and pandemics are 
included within the definition of a natural disaster under the policy. However, the policy 
terms state that trip cancellation is only covered if the holiday accommodation is badly 
affected and cannot be used as a result of a natural disaster occurring in the immediate 
area. This wasnt the reason why Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip  it was Mr Hs inability to 
travel due to his medical condition. So, on that basis I cannot say that the claim should be 
covered as a natural disaster.
Im conscious that Mr and Mrs H are concerned about what they have referred to as lost 
data by UKI, in relation to Mr Hs medical information for his upgrade. From what Ive seen it 
appears this is due to a system change and so those details are no longer available. This 
has not been investigated as part of this complaint, which centres on whether UKI has acted 
fairly in declining the claim. I would suggest Mr and Mrs H contact UKI to discuss their 
concerns about this particular issue to gain clarification and answers to their questions. 
Finally, Im aware that Mr and Mrs H have been customers of their bank for a long time and 
feel this loyalty should lead to them having their complaint upheld. I understand how 
disappointed they must be with the outcome, but I must consider this complaint based on the 
facts and evidence relating to this particular issue. And based on what Ive seen and been 
told, Im satisfied that UKI has acted reasonably - so I wont be asking them to do anything 
more.My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman