DRN-3501876
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In July 2007 Mr and Mrs S purchased a points-based timeshare membership from a 
timeshare provider, Business A. The membership cost £14,375 and Mr and Mrs S took out a 
joint loan of £9,678.10 with GE Money to pay for part of it. Mr and Mrs S repaid the loan in 
full in December 2007. 
In 2021 Mr and Mrs S approached GE Money via their representative to make a claim under 
section 75 and section 140A of the CCA, because GE Money provided part of the finance for 
Mr and Mrs S to purchase the timeshare. In summary, they said Business A misrepresented 
the timeshare to them during the sale, and that both the timeshare and loan agreement are 
null and void due to breaches of the law and relevant regulations, which created an unfair 
relationship. They also said GE Money didnt carry out a proper affordability or income 
assessment for Mr and Mrs S before lending to them. 
GE Money declined their claims under the CCA. They gave a number of reasons, including 
that Mr and Mrs S made their claims out of time because the timeshare was sold more than 
six years ago. Unhappy with their response, Mr and Mrs S made a complaint and brought it 
to our service via their representative. In summary, they said their complaint is not time-
barred because they couldnt have been aware that their agreements were null and void until 
they engaged their representative in April 2021. So, they believed the time limit didnt start 
until then as the relevant date of knowledge, and that section 32 of the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA) should apply.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs S complaint. He concluded that they raised 
their claims under the CCA out of time under the LA, so he didnt think GE Money acted 
unreasonably in turning down their claims on this basis. He also didnt think there was any 
reason to extend the time limits, or that they had the shown the loan was unaffordable for 
them at the time they took it out. So, he didnt uphold their complaint. 
In response, Mr and Mrs S representative said the one material issue the investigator did 
not consider from a time limits perspective is that time runs from the date of knowledge, in 
relation to the agreements being null and void. Their representative also referred to a 
previous ombudsmans decision, which referred to a three year time limit from the date the 
consumer knew they had cause for complaint and said Mr and Mrs S couldnt have possibly 
known about the impact of the EU Directive or the unfair relationship points before their 
involvement. So, they complained within three years from the date of knowledge and their 
complaint is not time-barred. They also referred to Principle 6 of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Principles and argued that GE Money owed a duty of care to Mr and 
Mrs S, and so section 14A of the Limitation Act applied, which has a different time limit
Mr and Mrs S representative said Business A knowingly sold them a timeshare that was in 
breach of the relevant EU Directive, which means the timeshare agreement is null and void  
and the Directive has been in place since 1994. They reiterated that, as a result, the credit 
agreement with GE Money is also null and void as GE Money should not have provided the 
finance in the circumstances and the relationship between Mr and Mrs S and GE Money is 
unfair. They asked for an ombudsman to comment on the validity of the timeshare 
agreement governed by the EU Directive.  
Our investigator reviewed Mr and Mrs S case in light of these comments. Ultimately, he 
concluded that our service wouldnt be able to look into their section 75 claim further, as GE 
Money wasnt authorised by the FCA at the time they made the claim. So, he didnt think we 
had jurisdiction to consider Mr and Mrs S complaint about the section 75 claim. His view 
remained the same as regards their section 140A claim, as he still believed it was raised 
outside of the relevant time limits under the LA and so GE Money didnt do anything wrong 
by declining it.   
Because the parties disagreed, the case was referred to me for a decision. 
Before the complaint was passed to me another ombudsman at our service issued a 
decision dealing with identical legal arguments Mr and Mrs S representatives made on 
another complaint. As I considered the issues to be the same, I asked Mr and Mrs S 
representatives to address what my colleague had said in that decision in relation to their 
argument that the timeshare agreement was null and void. In summary, the general points to 
be taken were as follows:
Although the claim that the timeshare agreement is null and void something that could be 
considered under a section 140A claim in respect of the related loan, it could also be a 
freestanding claim in its own right.
If a timeshare agreement is governed by English law, not Spanish law, the Spanish court 
judgment that Mr and Mrs S representatives provided to our service cant be applied 
directly to the question as to whether the contract is voidable under English law. 
There isnt anything in the relevant EU Directives, relevant legislation, rules, regulations, 
or any other provision that would point to such a timeshare agreement being voidable.
The House of Commons Library Briefing Paper titled Timeshares: common problems 
faced by UK owners said that floating week or points based timeshares were basic 
timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of itself. And these 
types of timeshares fall within the definition of a timeshare contained within the 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 
(Timeshare Regulations).
Based on the evidence seen, these types of timeshare agreements and related credit 
agreements dont appear to be voidable for these reasons.
I asked for any further comments on the above points before considering the case for a 
decision. In response, Mr and Mrs S representative said the following:
They summarised the relevant law for timeshares and said that the Timeshare Act 1992 
and the Timeshare Regulations 1997 are applicable to Mr and Mrs S timeshare 
purchase.
They said Mr and Mrs S timeshare agreement wasnt compliant with the 1992 Act. 
They said Mr and Mrs S withdrawal period was 3 months and 10 days because 
Business A did not disclose standard information in the Purchase Agreement for the 
timeshare. And Business A took an advance payment during this time, which was 
prohibited, so Business A and GE Money breached the relevant Timeshare regulations.
Mr and Mrs S claim that GE Money, who they referred to as the bank, breached the 
relevant timeshare regulations, is not time-barred because Mr and Mrs S only discovered 
the breaches when they engaged their representative in April 2021.Section 14A provides extended time limits for negligence actions, which is three years 
from the date of knowledge, and Mr and Mrs S have a cause in negligence against 
Business A. So, they made their claim in time. 
They asked for an ombudsmans review. So, I am now proceeding to issue my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good
industry practice when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having considered everything, I think there are a number of claims Mr and Mrs S are making 
to GE Money. I will address each in turn. 
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
Under section 75 of the CCA, in certain circumstances, if Mr and Mrs S paid for goods or 
services using certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of those goods or services, the creditor (GE Money in this 
case) can also be held responsible. 
Mr and Mrs S said that Business A misrepresented a number of points in relation to the 
timeshare agreement they purchased. So, they said GE Money was jointly liable for the 
misrepresentations under section 75. But GE Money declined their claim. 
Before I can go on to consider whether GE Moneys response to Mr and Mrs S section 75 
claim was reasonable, I first have to ensure I have the jurisdiction to consider the event 
being complained about. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to deal with every 
complaint it receives. Its bound by rules that set out the types of complaints it can look at. 
Those rules are set out in the FCA Handbook under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP).
DISP 2 sets out the Financial Ombudsman Services two jurisdictions: our compulsory 
jurisdiction and our voluntary jurisdiction. DISP 2.1.1 (1) (a) says our compulsory jurisdiction 
covers: certain complaints against firms (and businesses which were firms at the time of the 
events complained about). And a firm is a business authorised by the FCA to undertake 
certain regulated activities. This means I first need to determine whether GE Money was 
authorised by the FCA at the time of the event being complained about.
Although Mr and Mrs S may have a section 75 claim against the timeshare supplier, which 
they could also then hold GE Money responsible for (as explained above), this isnt the same 
as a complaint  and it doesnt automatically mean they have a complaint against GE Money 
that falls within our jurisdiction. It depends on what Mr and Mrs S are complaining about.
The actual event being complained about in this case is GE Moneys response to Mr and 
Mrs S section 75 claim. In particular, Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that GE Money didnt 
uphold their claim and reimburse them for the cost of the timeshare. Based on the available 
evidence, they raised their section 75 claim with GE Money on 22 November 2021, and GE Money responded on 15 December 2021. So, this is the date of the event being complained 
about (the date of GE Moneys response to their claim). However, GE Money Consumer 
Lending Limited resigned from the FCAs authorisation on 6 December 2019. So, GE Money 
wasnt authorised by the FCA at the time of the event being complained about. This means I 
agree with the investigators ultimate conclusion that Mr and Mrs S complaint about 
GE Moneys response to their section 75 claim doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, so I cannot consider it.  
I appreciate this part of my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S, but our 
jurisdiction is not discretionary, and I cannot disregard the DISP rules. 
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Under section 140A a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with 
a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the 
creditor arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make 
such a determination, but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account. 
However, if GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the 
section 140A claim. So, I also have to take the relevant time limits under the LA into 
account.
I should make it clear that Im not deciding if any right Mr and Mrs S may have to bring 
their claim has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im 
considering if GE Money acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs S 
section 140A claim.
It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A 
of the CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement 
ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. GE Money has shown that 
Mr and Mrs S loan agreement was taken out on 6 August 2007 and settled on 6 December 
2007, when it said the agreement ended.
I am satisfied the relevant limitation period under the LA is six years from when the loan 
ended. This is because Mr and Mrs S are making a claim for sums recoverable by statute, 
to which section 9 of the LA applies. So, Mr and Mrs S would have had to bring an action 
by December 2013. As they didnt make their section 140A claim until 2021, I think they 
brought their claim outside of the applicable time limit under the LA. 
I can, however, see from the account statements that there was one transaction on the 
account in 2011, which appears to be the return of an overpayment. But whatever the 
transaction is, and even if this means the loan account didnt actually close with GE Money 
until August 2011, Mr and Mrs S would still have made their claim outside of the six year 
time limit from the date of closure of the account when they raised their claim in 2021 
(because it is still more than six years from August 2011). This means I dont think GE 
Money acted unfairly in their response to Mr and Mrs S section 140A claim by declining it 
on this basis. So, I dont think it needs to do anything further. Could the time limit under the LA be extended?
Ive considered Mr and Mrs S submissions regarding whether there are any other provisions 
or reasons why the relevant time limit under the LA could be extended in the circumstances 
of Mr and Mrs S claim. But Im not persuaded that they could be. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S representative said they made their complaint within three years from when 
they had the required knowledge to do so (after they consulted their representative), which 
means they complained in time under the three year date of knowledge rule. But Mr and 
Mrs S representative hasnt explained what rule they are referring to. 
There is a part of the DISP rules that refers to the complainant having to make their 
complaint within three years from the date on which a complainant became aware they had 
cause to complain (DISP 2.8.2(2)). But the investigator did not conclude Mr and Mrs S 
complaint was raised outside of this three year rule, and neither am I reaching such a 
conclusion. Rather, I am considering the time limits GE Money relied on when saying that Mr 
and Mrs S claims were made out of time under the LA, as Ive already explained. 
Section 14A of the LA provides a Special time limit for negligence actions where facts 
relevant to cause of action are not known at date of accrual (as per the title of that 
section). And Mr and Mrs S representative specifically said that this section should apply 
to their claim. They said Business A and GE Money breached the relevant Timeshare 
regulations by taking an advance payment during the withdrawal period from the timeshare 
agreement, which is a breach of contract and a breach of duty  and also a cause of action 
in negligence. But I disagree. Section 14A provides for a second period in which a claim for 
negligence can be made. Looking at what happened, when Mr and Mrs S purchased the 
timeshare and took out the finance, I think there was an obligation to give them sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an informed choice about 
whether to take out the timeshare and loan. But Im not persuaded a duty of care arose or 
advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to which section 14A of the LA could 
apply. So, I dont think the relevant time limits should be extended on this basis. 
Mr and Mrs S representative also referred to section 32 of the LA and said Mr and Mrs S 
couldnt have known the timeshare agreement was null and void until they engaged their 
representative. Section 32 states that in cases of fraud, concealment, or mistake, the 
limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, concealment, 
or mistake (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). But Mr and Mrs S 
representative hasnt explained what Business A specifically concealed or how this applies 
to their claim. Indeed, theyve not pointed to anything in particular that they think 
constitutes any fraud, concealment, or mistake. And, based on what Ive seen, I cant see 
that there was any. So, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs S able to rely on section 32 of 
the LA in these circumstances either. And I dont think there are any other reasons why 
time should be extended under the LA in the circumstances of this case.
Mr and Mrs S complaint about the affordability of the loan
Mr and Mrs S said GE Money didnt carry out any affordability checks when they took out the 
loan in 2007. Even if I were to conclude that GE Money or its agents didnt carry out the 
proper checks for creditworthiness and affordability when arranging the loan, I would still 
need to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S and/or that they lost 
out as a result, in order to uphold this part of their complaint.
Mr and Mrs S representative hasnt provided any supporting evidence to show that this was 
the case. And I havent seen anything to suggest they struggled to repay the amount 
borrowed, for example, or that they otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time. So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to uphold this part of the complaint 
either.
Is Mr and Mrs S timeshare agreement null and void?
I have considered all of Mr and Mrs S representatives arguments about why their 
timeshare agreement (and therefore the related loan agreement) should be deemed null 
and void, including the EU Directives, Spanish laws and Spanish legal judgment they 
referred to. Having done so, I am not persuaded that this is a reason to uphold their 
complaint in these circumstances for the same reasons I shared with Mr and Mrs S 
representative prior to my decision, or that GE Money need to do anything further in 
response. 
Although Mr and Mrs S representatives had referred to Spanish Law, they havent 
provided supporting evidence to show that Mr and Mrs S timeshare agreement is 
governed by Spanish Law. And, as far as I am aware, they havent sought to bring a claim 
in the Spanish courts. So, theres been no declaration made that their timeshare 
agreement is voidable. And I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude it 
should be voidable under English law, given UK Parliament recently published a briefing 
paper in the House of Commons Library titled: Timeshares: common problems faced by 
UK owners, in which it said that a floating week or points based timeshare were basic 
timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of itself, as 
previously explained to Mr and Mrs S representative.
Having considered the 1992 Timeshares Act and the 1994 Directive, I do not think the law 
makes the timeshare agreement voidable as suggested either. The 1992 Act makes 
provision for timeshare accommodation being from a pool of accommodation, so I think it 
was drafted with those types of arrangements in mind. Nothing in the 1992 Act makes me 
think selling those types of products were prohibited. So, I dont think all timeshare 
agreements had to refer to a specified apartment or set week to comply with the 1992 Act in 
the way Mr and Mrs S representative thinks. Neither does the 1992 Act say that timeshare 
agreements are voidable if the required information is not included in the contract, or if 
money was taken before the end of the withdrawal period.
Based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think either the timeshare agreement is 
voidable for the reasons Ive explained. This means I also dont think that Mr and Mrs S loan 
agreement is voidable on this basis, and I dont uphold this part of their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint about GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman