DRN-3633741
The complaint
The directors of a limited company I will refer to as X, have complained about a buy-to-let 
portfolio mortgage application X made to Hampshire Trust Plc trading has HTB. The 
directors are unhappy about the service and the information HTB asked for to support the 
application, and the fact the application was ultimately declined because the format of the 
deeds of subordination couldnt be agreed. They believe this has meant theyve lost over 
£21,000.
What happened
In 2021 each of the directors of X and one of their relatives owned a rental property. 
Ownership of the properties was to be transferred to X and a portfolio mortgage arranged. 
The mortgage was to repay the existing mortgages, cover the original property owners 
capital gains liability, fees and the costs of the transfer, including stamp duty. The remaining 
value of the properties was to be owed to the directors and the relative in the form of loans. It 
was mentioned that some of the money owed to the relative would be considered a gift from 
the relative.
A decision in principle was issued to X on 30 March 2021, and an application was submitted 
the same day. 
Valuations were completed on the three properties in May 2021 and the valuers reports 
were issued to HTB on 2 June 2021. As the valuations were satisfactory, a mortgage offer 
was issued two days later. It was for a mortgage of £714,000 (of which £14,000 was the 
mortgage arrangement fee) on an interest-only basis over a term of 10 years. It detailed that 
both directors were required to provide a personal guarantee for the amount of the 
mortgage. There were also further evidential requirements regarding the properties and the 
transfer arrangements.
Some of the information about the ownership of the properties and the plans for the transfer 
and mortgage was set out in a letter to HTB dated 28 April 2021 from a firm of chartered 
accountants. However, information about the second director and the relative owning one of 
the properties each wasnt included, nor was there mention of loans from those individuals 
for, effectively, the amount of the equity on transfer. There was also no mention of funds 
being gifted by the relative. Full confirmation of the arrangement was provided by the 
solicitors acting for X on 21 June 2021.
A week later the HTBs solicitors issued deeds of subordination and gifted deposit 
documentation. There was also some outstanding information needed and the directors 
were required to seek independent legal advice. The following day HTB was informed that 
the directors werent happy to sign the deeds of subordination. HTB asked what the 
objection was. 
On 2 July 2021 Xs solicitors confirmed that the directors wanted flexibility to repay the 
directors loans and to make other payments to the directors before the mortgage was 
repaid. As such, they didnt want to sign the deeds of subordination. HTB considered the 
objection, but maintained that it required the deeds of subordination to be signed in order for 
the mortgage to be advanced, but it was willing to consider variations to terms as long as X 
paid the additional costs for redrafting the deeds. This was communicated three days later.
There were then conversations about what needed to be paid and when. HTB suggested an 
initial payment being made for agreement of the variation of terms, with the bulk of the cost 
being paid thereafter. However, X wasnt willing to pay anything until new terms were 
agreed. HTB didnt agree this request. The mortgage offer expired on 4 July 2021 and HTB 
didnt renew it.
The directors of X complained. HTB responded to the complaint in its final response letter of 
9 September 2021. It set out what had happened and when. It acknowledged that there were 
times when its solicitors could have acted more quickly, but it considered the majority of the 
delays were due to the arrangements for the finances not having been adequately set out 
initially and the directors not wanting to sign the deeds of subordination. As such, it didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
The directors of X were not satisfied with HTBs response and referred the complaint to this 
service. 
When HTB was informed the complaint had been referred, it provided its file relating to the 
matter. It also confirmed that when it had instructed its solicitors on 8 June 2021 it hadnt 
included a copy of the accountants letter. However, the full structure of the arrangements 
wasnt included in that letter. Following full details being provided on 21 June 2021, deeds of 
subordination were requested three days later. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She was satisfied that until HTBs solicitors were made fully aware of the structure of 
the arrangements in June 2021, the need for the deeds of subordination and gifted deposit 
documentation wouldnt have been known. Following this there were conversations about 
the requirements and further evidence being provided. Given that there werent any 
significant periods where nothing happened, the investigator was unable to conclude that 
HTB did anything wrong.
The directors didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They explained that they were 
unhappy that HTB introduced the need for deeds of subordination at the last minute, which 
meant that they couldnt pay themselves back before the mortgage was repaid. They also 
said that they thought it was unfair that HTB wanted the relative to gift the property to X. In 
addition, the directors thought that it was unreasonable that HTB wanted X to pay the costs 
to amend the deeds of subordination. They requested the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The arrangements surrounding the mortgage applied for were more complicated than would 
usually be expected. While the directors have said that HTB was aware of the arrangements 
from April, having looked at the accountants letter, I dont believe that is the case. There is 
only mention of one of the directors ownership of properties and no mention of ownership by 
the other director or the relative. Again the loans being granted by those parties werent 
mentioned, or the potential for some funds being granted as a gift by the relative. Without a 
full understanding of arrangements it would not have been possible for HTB to have been 
able to tell the directors about all of its requirements, because it wouldnt have been aware of 
them. So while HTB didnt introduce the need for deeds of subordination for both directors or gift documentation for the relative until almost three months after the application, I dont think 
it could have done so earlier, as it didnt have a full understanding of the circumstances that 
made them necessary.
Throughout the process there had been quite constant activity relating to the application and, 
having considered what happened when, I havent seen anything that leads me to believe 
that HTB made errors that caused material delays the process.
As for the requirement for the deeds of subordination, I can understand why the directors 
wouldnt want to defer their rights in favour of HTB, but it is quite normal for a lender to want 
the mortgage to be the priority debt. I would also explain that a lender doesnt have to lend, 
and no-one is entitled to borrow money. As part of the decision about whether to lend, a 
lender is allowed to assess the risk the mortgage will represent, and set the requirements it 
feels are needed to make the risk acceptable to it. This is especially so with commercial 
mortgages such as the one X applied for. As such, I cant find that it was unreasonable for 
HTB to ask the directors for the guarantees, documentation and deeds it did. 
Ultimately, it was the requirements of the directors and the resultant lack of agreement to 
sign the deeds of subordination that resulted in the mortgage offer expiring. In light of this I 
dont consider it wasnt unreasonable for HTB not to make a further mortgage offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask X to accept or reject my decision before 
30 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman