DRN-3049469
The complaint
Mr L and Miss F say Nationwide Building Society (when it was trading as Derbyshire
Building Society) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2004. Mr
L and Miss F applied for the PPI over the phone. The policy provided cover for Mr L if he
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L and Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision for the complaint 
on 20 July 2021 and said I intended to uphold it. Details of my provisional findings are below:
Nationwide recommended the policy to Mr L and Miss F but I didnt think it was 
suitable.
I reached this conclusion because Mr L had provided evidence to show that he was 
entitled to the equivalent of full pay from his employer if he was off work sick for 
twelve months. The evidence also showed that after that, he was covered by his 
employers permanent health insurance scheme. This paid 75% of Mr Ls salary for 
as long as he was off work sick, up to normal retirement age.
So I thought the employer benefits Mr L was entitled to meant he and Miss F could 
have managed without the PPI for long enough not to really need it.
I didnt think Mr L and Miss F would have bought the policy if Nationwide had made it 
clear it wasnt suitable. So, I thought Mr L and Miss F had lost out because of what 
the business did wrong.
Mr L and Miss F said they didnt have anything to add in response to my provisional findings.
Nationwide didnt agree with my provisional findings. It said Mr L hadnt made it aware of his 
employee benefits at the point of sale, and that it had been the decision of Mr L and Miss F 
to take out the policy. 
Nationwide said Mr Ls testimony about the amount of sick pay he was entitled to had 
changed, so it considered the evidence he now referred to was doubtful. The society also 
wanted to see a dated copy of the sick pay document, and evidence that Mr L was entitled to 
it when he took out the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Nationwide says it doesnt have a record of Mr L telling it about his employer sick pay when 
the PPI was sold. It also considers it was Mr L and Miss Fs decision F to take out the policy. 
But this was an advised sale, which meant Nationwide had to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr L and Miss F. So it shouldve asked them about any alternative benefits they 
were entitled to. 
As Nationwide has told me it doesnt have a record of Mr Ls sick pay, on balance I cant 
safely conclude that it did that. And even if the necessary checks were carried out, it seems 
Nationwide recommended the policy, knowing it wasnt suitable for Mr L and Miss F.
Nationwide has provided notes from a phone call it had with Mr L, in which he said he 
couldnt remember how much sick pay he was entitled to. I understand this phone call took 
place before the complaint was referred to our service, and involved a number of questions 
from Nationwide to Mr L about the sales process and his circumstances at the time.
Nationwide was asking Mr L to recall details from 2004, and I understand the phone call was 
relatively short. After these initial discussions its not unusual for customers to revisit their 
records and for their recollections to be clarified. 
When Mr L and Miss F submitted their complaint to this service, they referred to the sick pay 
and PHI benefits Mr L says he was entitled to, and their testimony has remained consistent 
since then. So I dont find that Mr Ls initial conversation with Nationwide means that its 
unreasonable for me to accept what hes since said about his sick pay and benefits.
Nationwide wants to see a dated document recording the sick pay and benefits Mr L refers 
to, and evidence that he was entitled to those benefits when he took out the policy. Given 
the amount of time thats passed, I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr L to provide the 
level of detail Nationwide is seeking.
Mr L has been consistent in what hes said about his employer at the time and the length of 
time hed worked there. Im also mindful of the size of Mr Ls employer, and his role within 
the organisation. From what Ive seen, on balance I dont think its unreasonable for me to 
accept that the document hes provided is an accurate representation of the employer 
benefits he says he was entitled to when the policy was sold.
So I remain of the view that the employer benefits Mr L was entitled to meant he and Miss F 
could have managed without the PPI for long enough not to really need it. Overall, Im not 
persuaded to depart from the position set out in my provisional decision.
  
Putting things rightNationwide should put Mr L and Miss F in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide
should:
Pay Mr L and Miss F the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr L and Miss F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide
must give Mr L and Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for
one.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
compensation to Mr L and Miss F in line with the instructions above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman