DRN-3848310
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has not fairly compensated him for the stress 
the bank caused when investigating his romance scam claim. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and was outlined in 
the provisional decision I issued on 23 November 2022.
In summary, Mr C made a connection with a person Ill refer to as N. They first met at a party 
and things developed from there. Mr C explains that he thought N was his girlfriend and that 
they were in a genuine relationship, but now believes that she played on his vulnerabilities 
and good nature to manipulate him. Mr C paid N almost £85,000 from his Barclays account. 
Our Investigator undertook significant investigation into the situation, including speaking to 
the investigating Detective who had interviewed both N and Mr C. She was satisfied that the 
situation was, on balance, a romance scam and suggested the complaint should be upheld. 
She concluded that Mr Cs autism made him vulnerable to this type of scam and his personal 
circumstances meant it would not have been reasonable to expect him to have protected 
himself from becoming a victim. 
To put things right, she recommended that Barclays should refund the money that had been
lost along with interest and pay £150 compensation to acknowledge the bank had handled
the claim poorly by missing deadlines and using inexact wording in its correspondence.
Barclays agreed. But Mr C did not think the compensation to acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience the bank had caused him went far enough. He said that Barclays had not
appreciated how its actions had impacted him financially, physically, emotionally and
mentally. He felt the bank had mislabelled and incorrectly logged the claim to deny
reimbursement on false grounds and had been dismissive the whole way through the
process. He said the matter had not been handled correctly by the bank from the very
beginning which caused this ordeal to needlessly drag on for well over a year and counting.
He explained the bank had caused sustained distress and inconvenience with its repeated
administrative failings and pointed out that the bank had never given him a formal answer.
Mr C explained that hed been unable to continue with his life plans. Hed wanted to buy his
mums house but was unable to without this money. He explained that hed had to move
away from his family and support structure and was now paying rent to live somewhere he
does not want to be. He said that Barclays should take responsibility because it could have
contacted the detective to understand the situation, but it did not.
I considered the matter afresh. An extract from my provisional decision that explains the 
reasons why I thought the compensation our Investigator had recommended for distress and 
inconvenience did not go far enough is included below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no question that Mr C has had a very difficult time in recent years. Discovering that
he has been deceived by a person he thought he was building a life and a future with is
obviously an incredibly upsetting experience. Mr C has described feeling crushed and very
depressed. Its difficult to read Mr Cs letters where he sets out how he considers Barclays
has failed and what the impact of those failings have been on his day to day life. Hes
described his life as being on hold and considers that his quality of life now is as direct result
of his claim being mis-logged and mis-labelled. Hes been clear that he is not blaming
Barclays for being a victim of fraud, rather, it is how the bank has acted after the fact. He
says that the bank dragged this ordeal on for over a year for no good reason and
compounded my suffering when there was no need in the first place.
Whilst I acknowledge that Mr C considers Barclays to have been intentionally obstructive,
I have not seen any evidence of any deliberate malice on the banks part. This is not to take
away from the fact that there was clearly a lack of care in the way Mr Cs claim and then
associated complaints were handled. The banks internal notes refer to a backlog and having
a high volume of claims to consider is a challenge that many financial businesses face. But
here I think it ought to have been evident to the bank that Mr C was struggling with the
situation. The banks notes show that Mr C had spoken to operatives a number of times to
ensure that his case fell under the remit of a scam and that hed explained that his other
bank had logged the matter as a romance scam. I think Barclays ought to have recognised
Mr Cs wider circumstances and prioritised giving an answer on his claim. Mr Cs anxiety
made waiting many months for any substantive news about such a large sum of money
particularly difficult. It took approximately three months to assess the claim, which was unfair
on Mr C who was not in a position to wait this long.
Mr C received a very short letter declining his claim. It said little more than the funds were a
subject of a dispute between Mr C and the seller of the goods/services. Its understandable
that Mr C was concerned about whether Barclays had looked at his claim or not as the letter
made no explicit reference to a romance scam at all. Mr C has not been able to move past
this letter. He considers that if the situation had been correctly investigated as a romance
scam at that point, he would have been refunded his money. I think this letter was very
clumsily worded. It was not specific enough to the wider circumstances. Barclays told this
service that it considered the matter to be a civil dispute because Mr C knew the person he
was sending the money to, but it never explained this to Mr C at any point so he never had
the opportunity to reply to that. The bank never gave Mr C any substantive written response
to his complaints. No matter what its position, Barclays should have explained things clearly.
This misinformation has had a lasting impact on Mr C.
But I dont consider the underlying situation was as clear cut as Mr C does. I can see why,
on the face of it, Barclays had concerns about whether N was intentionally acting
fraudulently and deliberately setting out to scam Mr C given that they knew each other and
had met in person. Mr C has always been very clear his position is that N fabricated the
premise of the relationship in order to obtain money from him. But there is a high legal
threshold and burden of proof for fraud and Im mindful that our Investigators dialogue with
the police has been an invaluable aid to understanding the wider situation here. It is
inherently difficult for a bank to determine in isolation whether Mr C was deceived into a false
relationship which was only for the purposes of taking money from him or whether it was a
genuine relationship that had broken down. 
For this reason, I cant agree with Mr C that Barclays should have always offered to refund 
the money right from the outset or that the bank should have to pay the losses that Mr C 
feels flow from this, such as the rent.
I think there was more investigation that the bank needed to do in order to better understand
the situation and before it could make a determination on whether it considered this matter to
be a civil dispute or a scam. I accept Mr Cs point that hed given the bank the contact detailsfor the police as well as giving his permission for the bank to speak to the police. Its
disappointing that the depth of the banks investigation into the claim did not extend to trying
to speak with the police. But I cannot change Barclays internal processes and procedures.
What I can do is to highlight the impact that its approach had on a vulnerable adult at what
was already a very difficult time in his life.
Barclays has now agreed to refund the money Mr C lost in full along with 8% simple interest
on those funds from the date each payment was made until the date of settlement. There is
no question that it took a very long time for the bank to reach that point. Sometimes complex
claims and complaints do take some time to work through and there is a lot of money
involved in the dispute here. But there was a real lack of compassion and understanding by
the bank in the way that it handled the initial claim and no urgency displayed when there was
no doubt that the bank was fully aware of Mr Cs wider personal circumstances.
Mr C has described experiencing sustained distress and upheaval as a result of all that has
happened. I do not doubt this. Hes shared with us that hes suffering with stress, his anxiety
has gotten worse, hes found it difficult to sleep and that hes started to experience
migraines. The negative impact on Mr Cs health led him to think about ending his own life.
Its clear that this situation and its aftermath has had life changing consequences for Mr C.
Im mindful that there will be a lot of distress and inconvenience that stems directly from Ns
actions, as she was the direct cause of Mr Cs losses. I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible
for that. Im also not a regulator and I have no power to fine or punish Barclays for its
conduct. But there is no doubt in my mind that Barclays actions at an already difficult time
amplified the impact of the loss of the money and made a bad situation worse.
Taking everything into account, and thinking about the share of the impact reasonably
attributable to Barclays here, I currently consider that £750 is a fair and reasonable way for
the bank to recognise that its actions have caused Mr C to suffer distress and inconvenience
that could have been avoided. 
Barclays responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision. Mr C didnt agree that 
the compensation Id recommended awarding went far enough. In the interim, Barclays paid 
Mr C the money that had been lost to the scam along with interest. 
Mr C wrote to me and explained he could only talk from personal experience. In summary, 
he felt Barclays were intentionally obstructive right from the start and that his claim had been 
handled negligently. He said that he felt stonewalled by the bank and that he didnt receive a 
good service from Barclays at any point in the process. He said the bank did not investigate 
the matter properly and did not speak to the police and that this was intentional obstruction 
of process on Barclays part. He listed the errors Barclays had made in his case.
Mr C said Barclays had failed him systematically. He said the customer service agent who 
he spoke to initially should not be making decisions about what is and is not fraud without 
investigating. He said false information had been input on his claim, causing the fraud to be 
reported as something else entirely which directly negatively impacted how his case was 
investigated. He concluded by saying his case had been denied on false grounds because of 
Barclays staff members acting in bad faith and without integrity. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised what Mr C has said in response to my provisional decision in far less detail than what was in his letter and Ive done so using my own words. 
No discourtesy is intended by me in taking this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome, but I am grateful to 
Mr C for explaining how Barclays handling of the matter has affected him personally, 
emotionally and financially. 
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr C has said and described about how this 
experience has been for him. Theres no doubt that Mr C has been through a very stressful 
and upsetting time and that the way Barclays handled this matter has compounded those 
difficulties. But I think this situation was clear before I made my provisional decision, so what 
Mr C has said more recently hasnt changed my opinion. I still consider that £750 
compensation is a fair and reasonable way for the bank to recognise that it has fallen short, 
for much the same reasons as I have already set out in my provisional decision (which is 
summarised above and forms part of this final decision). 
Assessing compensation for non-financial losses like distress, inconvenience, and pain and 
suffering isnt an exact science. Theres no set award or formula to decide the level of 
compensation which would be appropriate. To work out what would be fair compensation in 
the individual circumstances of this complaint, I have thought about the impact Barclays 
actions or omissions have had on Mr C. When doing so, I have taken into consideration that 
Mr C was vulnerable and the impact on him was greater than it might have been on others in 
similar circumstances. 
In this situation, its not easy to address the emotional and practical impact specifically of 
Barclays mistakes in financial terms. At the time I reached my provisional decision, there 
was no doubt in my mind that Barclays should have handled this situation with more care. 
If Barclays had acted as I think it should have done, I agree the impact on Mr C would have 
been lessened. Its not in dispute that Mr C didnt receive the level of customer service hes 
right to expect. This is something that Barclays does not dispute because it has agreed to 
pay the compensation I have suggested without hesitation. But the Financial Ombudsman 
Service isnt intended to regulate or fine businesses for their conduct  thats the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. This means that Im not able to punish Barclays for the way that 
it treated Mr C and I am not able to change its internal processes and procedures. 
I know Mr C is going to be disappointed by this conclusion. It remains clear to me that the 
impact of Barclays actions is greater than a minor inconvenience or upset. They will have 
had a negative impact on Mr C at a time when he was already hit very hard. But looking at 
everything that happened, I still think £750 is fair and reasonable compensation to recognise 
the impact Barclays actions had.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr C £750 compensation to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience it has caused him in order to conclude this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman