DRN-3004899
The complaint
Mr S complains he was mis-sold a loan by Loans 2 Go Limited as its term wasnt clear.
What happened
Mr S was approved for a loan with Loans 2 Go in September 2019. The loan was for £500 
with weekly repayments of around £26 and a total repayable value of around £2,050. 
Mr S complained to Loans 2 Go in July 2020. He said he thought the term of the loan was 
six to nine months; and it wasnt until he reviewed his loan account online that he became 
aware the term was 18 months. 
Loans 2 Go issued its final response in August 2020. It said the pre contract and credit 
agreement were both available for Mr S to review before accepting the loan; and these 
documents detailed the 78-week (18 month) term of the loan. It said Mr S confirmed hed 
read and agreed to the terms and conditions of the loan by ticking a box to indicate his 
acceptance; and entering his name to complete the electronic signing of the document. It 
therefore didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. He reviewed the pre contract 
and credit agreement and saw the 78-week term of the loan and the total repayable value 
was stated. He therefore concluded Loans 2 Go had set out the conditions of the loan, 
including the term, which Mr S had agreed to. He therefore said it hadnt acted unfairly when 
providing Mr S with the loan.
Loans 2 Go didnt respond to our investigators assessment. Mr S responded and disagreed. 
In summary, he said he initially looked for lending over a shorter term; and that he has since 
seen comments on third party review sites where people have found the terms of their loans 
with Loans 2 Go were longer than they initially thought. He said he wouldnt have agreed to 
the lending had he known the term was 18 months.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr Ss testimony is that he was looking to apply for a loan over a term of around six to nine 
months. He has said it was only when hed been paying this loan for about ten months that 
he viewed his online loan account and found it had a term of 18 months. 
Loans 2 Go has provided this service with the pre contract and credit agreement produced at 
the time of the lending. Loans 2 Go has said these documents were available on Mr Ss 
online portal to review before accepting the loan. And that he needed to accept the terms of 
the credit agreement by checking a box and electronically signing the credit agreement to 
confirm hed read and agreed to its terms.
Ive reviewed these documents to understand what information was presented to Mr S 
before he accepted and agreed to the loan.  
Both the pre contract and credit agreement set out the capital amount being borrowed, the 
Annual Percentage Rate (APR), the total repayable value and the term of the loan. On both 
documents the term is clearly stated as 78 instalments, made up of 77 weekly instalments of 
around £26 and a subsequent final instalment of around £26. 
Within the credit agreement all of this information is contained within a Key Financial 
Information box at the very beginning of the document. Im therefore satisfied this 
information was clear and visible to Mr S, and not hidden away. 
I think its highly possible Mr S didnt pay much attention to the terms of the loan as he 
applied for this lending via a quick online process. Within his own testimony hes said from 
the start of the process to getting the money into his account took minutes. And its likely his 
focus was more on receiving the funds. The total repayable value Mr S is expected to pay for 
this loan is high. And I can understand Mr Ss concerns about repaying the loan over an 18-
month term. 
But Mr S accepted the terms, which I find were clearly set out, before he accepted and 
agreed to the loan. And therefore, I cant conclude Loans 2 Go has acted unfairly towards 
Mr S in the individual circumstances of this complaint. It therefore follows Loans 2 Go 
doesnt need to take any further action in resolution of Mr Ss complaint. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr S, but I hope my findings are clear in setting out 
why Ive reached this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about 
Loans 2 Go Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman