DRN-3171892
The complaint
Mr D and the estate of the late Mrs D complain HSBC UK Bank Plc gave Mr and Mrs D 
unsuitable advice in 2004 to invest in an investment fund. 
Mr D brings the complaint for himself and for the estate of the late Mrs D and is represented 
by a claims management company. Ill refer below to Mr D when referring to things said or 
done by Mr D or by his representative on his behalf.
What happened
In 2004 Mr and Mrs D invested £15,000 each into a unit-linked investment fund, held partly 
in ISAs.
HSBC says it is due to the time that has passed that it hasnt any records to show exactly 
what advice it gave Mr and Mrs D in 2004, what information it collected from them at the time 
or how it presented the fund to them. 
A fact sheet for the fund at the end of November 2004 shows its underlying assets at that 
time were made up, broadly, as follows:
UK shares (equity income) 39%
UK high yield bonds 15%
UK bonds 43%
Cash 3%
The fund was a fund of funds, meaning it invested in the assets indirectly, by investing in 
other funds that held those assets.
The fund factsheet says: The objective of this portfolio is to provide above average income 
with capital growth. It says the funds estimated net dividend yield (its income yield) at the 
time was 4.6% and that this was high compared to the average of 2.5% for the cautious 
managed sector. The Bank of England base rate was 4.75% at the time.
The fund had an annual charge of 1.5% and a 4% initial charge.
To assess the funds performance, the factsheet used a benchmark of:
35% UK equity income
15% European high yield bonds
50% UK corporate bonds
HSBC says Mr and Mrs D later made a further investment of around £6000 each into the 
fund to ensure that their 2006 ISA allowances were utilised. No points have been raised 
about the 2006 transactions specifically. The complaint to HSBC was about the 2004 advice. 
HSBC noted those transactions in its complaint response and Mr D later noted it as part of 
what was invested in the fund when comparing this to what was paid back from it.
HSBC says in 2006 Mr and Mrs D started to withdraw the quarterly income from the fund. A 
few years later their holdings in the fund were sold. The proceeds were transferred to 
another investment provider. Mr D has told us all the proceeds were transferred to the same 
provider to keep the investments together. The amount transferred plus the income paid was 
less than Mr and Mrs D had put in. So there was a capital loss at that point. 
In my provisional decision I summarised my understanding of what Mr D has told us of 
Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances, as follows:
At the time of the advice, theyd had the same jobs for well over a decade, running a 
particular type of business. They had bought their current business, or a new part of it, 
around two years before the advice. From Mr Ds description, what theyd bought was a 
substantial asset including a very large property. He hasnt mentioned any borrowing 
linked to the business purchase and he hasnt listed any finance costs for it in the 
outgoings hes said they had to cover. The borrowings hes mentioned are a car loan and 
a large mortgage on a separate property theyd bought to be nearer to the business.
Mr and Mrs D drew part of their business profits as a monthly income and reinvested the 
rest into their business. The income drawn covered the car loan payments and their 
household expenditure, leaving a small surplus. There were also mortgage repayments 
they were making. Mr D has said the mortgage was backed off the business.
Mr and Mrs D hadnt any previous investment experience. The money invested in the 
fund was 60% of their savings. It had been built up during Mr Ds previous job and held 
in savings accounts. They had no other liquid assets. All their money was going back 
into their business. They were willing to take more risk with the money but had always 
been cautious and relied on the adviser. Their only objective was to invest the money 
until retirement.
Mr and Mrs D were both past state pension age and didnt have private pensions. Mr D 
has told us he drew his pension after the business was sold. Hes also said the business 
was sold after it became too much for them to manage, bringing on retirement.
In terms of his concerns about the advice, Mr D has said, in summary:
Mr and Mrs D had no experience of the fluctuations of shares and the funds exposure to 
these made HSBCs advice unsuitable. The risks involved in their business meant theyd 
tend to want less risk with their money outside the business. Increasing their risk profile 
was not suitable given their ages. They shouldve been advised instead to put the money 
in a high interest savings account. Five-year fixed rate bonds offered 5% per year.
The high amount invested made the advice worse. Mr and Mrs D should have kept more 
back for emergencies, given the risks involved in their business. It was only good luck 
that they didnt need to draw out any of the invested capital to meet unforeseen health or 
business expenses. The money was kept invested for some years and then moved to 
another investment provider, but this doesnt mean the advice to invest was suitable.
The risks involved in their business meant it was wrong to take financial risks outside it 
and more important to keep this money safe, particularly given their future retirement 
needs and their outstanding mortgage and finance. Mr and Mrs Ds ages and the 
likelihood they would retire shouldve been given more consideration, particularly as they 
were already past state retirement age. Any number of factors could have brought 
forward their retirement at the time, given their ages and business affairs.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. In it I explained what Id seen so far made me think Mr and Mrs D could, with the money they were investing, afford to take 
the risks involved with the fund. 
I also said that Mr Ds description of Mr and Mrs Ds cautious risk attitude didnt in itself 
make me think the fund was necessarily unsuitable. With their overall circumstances also in 
mind, I didnt think the advice to make the investment into the fund involved too much risk or 
was otherwise unsuitable for them.
HSBC replied to say it didnt have anything new to add. Mr D replied with further points. 
Ive considered all Mr D has said but, in brief summary Mr D has said:
Mr and Mrs D were completely reliant on the guidance and support of the adviser and 
should not have been exposed to excessive risk. Two years after the sale Mr and Mrs D 
were asked: How much experience have you had in making and managing investment 
decisions and they selected the answer: 
oI have had some experience in the investment markets, e.g. having held some 
shares for the benefits they give.
This was answer B. Of the alternatives: 
oA was no experience and no desire to invest (aside from bank deposits); 
oD was little or no direct experience but a desire to invest anyway; 
oC was extensive experience and an awareness and comfort with the risks.
Mr and Mrs D were best placed to assess their capital needs and those of their business, 
but they had limited information as theyd run their business for only a few years. They 
had no real understanding of their capital need in the event of a significant downturn in 
that business. It was important the adviser considered this as their reserves could be 
depleted far quicker than their limited experience might have led them to anticipate. 
Mr and Mrs D intended to move when they retired, and this was likely within a few years. 
It was possible a sale of the business would repay the substantial mortgage and this was 
hoped for but not guaranteed given capital gains tax would be payable with limited taper 
relief given their short tenure. So there was a reasonable chance the invested funds 
might be needed towards the mortgage and this shouldnt have been overlooked.
Very little weight can be placed on Mr and Mrs Ds lack of reaction to the (pronounced) 
market moves occurring in 2007 to 2009, as they didnt keep close track of the market 
and paid off their mortgage and moved without needing to cash in the investment. But at 
the time of the advice it couldnt have been known this fortunate outcome would come to 
pass and what happened and their later decisions couldve all been different if it hadnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including carefully considering the further comments Mr D had kindly made, 
Ive still decided not to uphold the complaint  for largely the same reasons as I gave in my 
provisional decision. In brief, I dont think it was wrong for HSBC to advise Mr and Mrs D to 
make the investments they made into the fund. Ill explain my reasons.There is no record from the time of what Mr and Mrs D wanted, how much risk they were 
willing to take or why HSBC advised them to invest in the fund. Ive reached my conclusions 
and my view of what, on balance, is more likely to have happened, in the absence of that 
sort of evidence, and based on what I do have.
The risk of investment loss the fund carried meant investing in it wouldnt usually be suitable 
if invested capital (as distinct from the income the funds investments produced) was likely to 
be withdrawn in the short term, such as within five years or less.
Mr and Mrs D invested a high proportion of their cash savings. But this was only part of the 
overall financial picture. It is apparent that they had other, and very much more substantial, 
assets - the mortgaged property, property associated with the business they had bought, 
which from Mr Ds description, was substantial (and on which he hasnt mentioned any 
mortgage or financing), and the asset of the business as a saleable going concern.
I dont have a full picture of all the assets, for example their values net of borrowings and 
whether there were other properties or significant assets available to Mr and Mrs D beyond 
those that have been mentioned. But overall the picture I have is of significant net assets, 
with the invested funds being a small part of the overall picture. 
After the advice, Mr and Mrs D had some money left in cash that they could access if short 
term needs arose. They were business owners, so it is right to say that financial risks arising 
from their business ought to have been considered and provided for when giving advice on 
the size of this cash reserve. 
But I dont agree this means it was unsuitable not to recommend a larger cash reserve, or 
that the reserve ought to have included all of their cash savings. It is apparent that at the 
time of the advice a decision was taken not to invest part of the savings and to keep some 
back. It seems likely at least part of the reason for this was that thought was given at the 
time to what funding Mr and Mrs D might need for their short-term needs or emergencies. 
It seems to me Mr and Mrs D, as the business owners and the persons familiar with not only 
their own business but with their other spending plans, were in the best position to judge at 
the time what amount should be kept for short term funding. I accept their ability to do this 
will have been affected by their knowledge and experience of their business, so a limited 
number of years experience of running the business will have increased the uncertainty 
associated with such an estimate. I also accept that they should of course have been 
assisted by appropriate advice from HSBC.
But what I have still doesnt make me think this didnt happen or that the amount kept back 
was obviously wrong. The decision about the size of the reserve was made at the time by 
persons who, together, had access to relevant information and considerations. Mr and Mrs D 
didnt have experience of all business conditions, but insofar as it was possible that business 
fortunes might vary, Im not persuaded that its likely this wasnt given any consideration.
Mr and Mrs D didnt in fact draw capital from the fund in the short term. I dont overlook 
whats been said about how that might be down to luck. But it could also be because the 
assessment made at the time about how much reserve cash was needed was reasonable. 
On balance, in light of all Ive said above, what I have still doesnt persuade me that it wasnt.
Given Mr and Mrs Ds ages when they were advised, it wouldve been apparent they might 
soon retire. Mr D says a variety of factors couldve brought that about, regardless of what 
might have been planned. I agree. Ive assessed the suitability of the advice on that basis.
Looking at its asset allocation and its objective, the fund was designed to produce an income that could be drawn, with a chance that the fund and its income might to some extent still 
maintain or grow in value over time. Mr and Mrs D did draw income (rather than capital) from 
the fund after around two years. 
Also Mr and Mrs D didnt have pension savings, so generating an income from their capital 
was something they would also need to do in retirement. While they still owned and worked 
in the business, they generated income through capital invested in the business. If they 
stopped doing that and sold the business, they would, from what Mr D has said, need to do 
that in some other way, using the capital they got from the sale or from other assets.
In view of all this, I dont think the fact Mr and Mrs D might in the short term retire meant the 
advice to invest in the fund was unsuitable. I think they could have usefully kept their money 
invested in the fund after retirement in order to benefit from the income. On balance and 
given all the circumstances, I think its likely the advice to invest was given on this basis 
rather than on the basis that the invested funds would need to be cashed-in at retirement.
I say this bearing in mind that, from what Mr D has told us, I think it likely at the time of the 
advice that Mr and Mrs D would have more rather than less accessible capital at hand after 
retirement, with the sale of the business. There was a mortgage on a property they owned 
but the investment wasnt earmarked to repay it and Mr D hasnt said this was the purpose of 
that money or of the investment in the fund. After all, the mortgage was very much larger 
than the investment in the fund anyway.
That said, Ive carefully considered what Mr D has said about there having been a 
reasonable chance the invested funds might be needed to pay the mortgage if the sale of 
the business didnt repay it, and that capital gains tax had a bearing on how likely this 
mightve been and that the lack of taper relief increased that likelihood.
Capital gains tax on a sale implies a rise in value above the purchase price. Tax reduces but 
doesnt wipe out this rise. So if the tax is payable it would mean the value of what is being 
sold has risen above the price paid for it, which would tend to mean above the value of loans 
taken to pay that price. So it would tend to be associated with a situation in which the sale of 
assets would clear associated lending rather than fall short. That said, the mortgage related 
to a separate property not to the business whose sale Mr D has discussed. So the business 
sale doesnt appear to have been the only asset or way available to repay that mortgage. 
Having said all that, I return to what Ive said above about the invested funds being only a 
small part of a larger overall financial picture, and I dont have full details of that picture. But 
what Ive been told doesnt make me think that what was invested shouldnt have been 
invested because it was needed to repay lending. Mr and Mrs D didnt actually withdraw or 
spend capital from the fund at retirement and I still think this tends to add weight to rather 
than detract from my conclusion, without being my main reason for it. 
So what I have doesnt suggest to me that at the time of the advice the cash in the fund was 
or ought to have been earmarked for the repayment of the mortgage, at retirement or at 
some other time. 
In terms of retirement, I do take into account that holding the fund after retirement and after 
the sale of Mr and Mrs Ds business, whether this was in the short or long term, meant 
holding the fund and continuing to run the risk of investment loss after the point at which they 
would no longer have work income to replace those losses. So retirement would alter things 
in that respect. Holding the investment would be more of a risk at that point.
But in light of what Ive said about their overall situation and the size of their investment in 
the fund, on balance I think Mr and Mrs D were still in a financial position to invest the money they invested and take the risk of investment loss with it if they wished to do so. Also, based 
on what Mr D has said and how Mr and Mrs D used the fund, it looks to me like what the 
fund offered was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds needs, and so the advice would be suitable, so 
long as they were willing to take the risk of investment loss that was involved.
I say this taking into account that a savings account would have produced interest slightly 
higher than the funds income yield at first, based on the bank base rate and what Mr D has 
said about savings rates. Also a savings account wouldnt have suffered fund charges. But if 
interest were spent and not reinvested, over time inflation would reduce the real value of the 
cash savings and the interest from them, as, all other things being equal, there would be no 
scope for capital or income growth. The fund offered a way of investing for an income that 
might be sustained over the medium to long term. But this came at the expense of the risk of 
investment loss that a savings account doesnt have.
As to the sort of risk that was, the fund factsheet compares its income yield to funds in the 
cautious managed sector. That sector could include funds investing up to 60% in shares. 
So the cautious title didnt mean a fund in that sector would be low risk or not volatile or 
couldnt bring about significant losses. 
But, while noting the sectors range, I note the funds income objective was likely to limit the 
extent to which it might find its share weighting increase towards the upper end of that 
range, because a higher share content would lower the income the fund could generate 
(shares having a lower income yield than bonds typically). This lower share weighting was 
reflected by the customised benchmark the fund factsheet used to assess performance, 
which had 35% in shares, and by the actual shareholding of the fund at the time (39%).
I also note, as a lesser point, the funds shares were classed as equity income. This meant 
an emphasis on companies with established income streams to pay dividends, which would 
usually be considered less risky than companies without established income streams.
Also I do not overlook that different asset classes can perform differently. By having both 
shares and bonds, there was the chance that the fund volatility would be less exaggerated 
because sharp increases or decreases in one asset class might not be repeated in the other, 
so reducing the overall effect of market moves. The fund was a fund of funds so there was 
also significant diversification in the holdings within the asset classes.
That said, the bond element of the fund could also rise or fall in value and this could be 
expected to be exaggerated in the higher yield element. High yield bonds and shares made 
up 50% of the customised benchmark and 54% of the fund at the time.
The composition of the fund and risks involved were to allow the prospect, after charges, of 
achieving its income objective with capital growth, potentially maintaining the value of capital 
and income over time. The prospect of keeping up values in the longer term was largely due 
to the funds holding in shares. But this carried the risk of capital loss, and a higher risk of 
loss than if the whole fund had been made up of bonds. High yield bonds helped boost the 
funds income, but at more risk of loss than if only investment grade bonds had been used.
So a move from bank savings - and from not taking to taking investment risk - could have 
been made by Mr and Mrs D without them taking as much risk as was involved in the fund. 
They couldve been advised to invest in a fund with a higher bond content and higher quality 
bonds or, less risky still, UK government bonds. But this would have meant giving up the 
prospect the fund offered of growing its value and the value of its income while producing an 
income that could be drawn. So the fund could be suitable for Mr and Mrs D if they wanted 
this prospect and were willing to take the risk of loss involved with the sum they invested.Mr and Mrs D were willing to take some risk  Mr D has said so and it is acknowledged as 
something implied by the decision to take cash from savings and put it into an investment. I 
dont know the particular reason why Mr and Mrs D decided at this point to try to get more 
returns by investing some of their savings, having not done so before. But its not disputed 
that this was the situation at the time.
Mr D has said they had always been cautious  but this can mean different things to 
different people, so it only takes me so far. I dont think it means a cautious managed sector 
fund must have been suitable. Ive explained the fund was more cautious than some in that 
sector but on the other hand there were more cautious sectors and options available.
I note what has been said about Mr and Mrs Ds business affairs reducing the extent to 
which they wouldve wanted to take risk in other areas of their finances. But it is also the 
case that Mr and Mrs D had made significant business investments and, from what Mr D has 
said about the risks involved, were familiar with some degree of financial risk from those. 
So there was more to Mr and Mrs Ds situation than being of retirement age and without 
investment experience beyond the cash savings on which they wanted improved returns. 
Those factors, without anything else, might point towards a less risky approach than the fund 
as being a match for the most likely risk attitude. But here I dont think its right to say those 
factors mean that only a low risk approach could have been suitable for Mr and Mrs D and 
that the fund must have been unsuitable for them.
Of course, Mr and Mrs D may well have been more willing to take risk in an area they were 
familiar with, understood and had some direct control over  such as with their business  
than a new area with which they were unfamiliar, had less understanding and where control 
was left to fund managers and market movements of which they had no experience. There is 
not a direct parallel between a willingness to take business risk in a particular situation and a 
willingness to take investment risk more generally. But Mr and Mrs D having experience of 
investing significant capital sums to generate income and profits and in a situation involving 
some risk, while not definitive proof of any particular investment risk attitude, in my view is 
relevant and places the advice in a different context to the one it would have if Mr and Mrs D 
hadnt had that background.
Ive considered whats been said about Mr and Mrs D on a later questionnaire choosing to 
answer that they had some investment experience but not extensive experience (or indeed 
little or no experience). This doesnt alter my view of things. I accept whats been said about 
Mr and Mrs D having had no previous experience of stock market or other financial services 
type investments. I also accept whats been said about Mr and Mrs D relying on the advisers 
advice and about how they should not have been exposed to excessive risk. But I dont think 
that means the advice to invest was most likely wrong and I dont agree that it exposed them 
to excessive risk in their circumstances.
My provisional decision discussed what we know of how Mr and Mrs D reacted to their 
experience of the risks of the fund over a period of time. Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
volatility and losses experienced by the fund over its investment period struck Mr and Mrs D 
at the time as being outside the range of what they were given to expect at the sale. At face 
value, this makes it look like the fluctuations and losses the fund experienced werent that 
different to the kind Mr and Mrs D understood were possible when they took the fund. Mr D 
has since explained that in fact they didnt pay close attention to the value of the fund. Still, it 
would be unusual if when the decision to transfer was taken Mr and Mrs D took no account 
of the investments value.
Also, although the complaint says risk free deposit savings were what Mr and Mrs D should 
have had, they later kept the funds within an investment environment, so didnt return to deposit savings even after having suffered the losses that they suffered. 
But having said all that, I accept theres a limit to what can usefully be drawn from all this  
given the events were after the advice. I acknowledge what Mr D has said about how very 
little weight should be placed on it. I dont put much weight on it here. To the extent that any 
weight is put on it, it doesnt tend to help support the complaint. But my conclusion does not 
rely on putting weight on this - disregarding it doesnt change my conclusion.
In summary then, the investment HSBC advised Mr and Mrs D to make was not the lowest 
or next step up in risk from the cash savings they had been keeping. But it was a diversified, 
mixed fund with significant exposure to lower risk assets and Mr and Mrs Ds use of the fund, 
in using its income after an initial period, was in keeping with the funds income objective. 
Mr and Mrs Ds cash savings were a small part of their overall finances and their lack of 
experience of other financial sector investments tells only part of the story of their experience 
of financial risk and business investment more generally. Their asset and income position 
meant they could afford to take the risks involved with the fund.
Mr Ds description of their attitude, as having always been cautious, is one I accept and give 
weight, given in particular that we have very little else about this and nothing from the time of 
the sale. But I dont think this in itself means a different or less risky asset allocation was 
called for, in light of the other things Ive said above. Also I dont think the later answer given 
on a risk assessment changes this.
On balance, what I have  and it is limited here - doesnt persuade me that the fund was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs D by virtue of its asset allocation or risk. On balance I think it more 
likely it was suitable. Also, in light of all Ive said above, Im not persuaded the advice was 
unsuitable for any other reason either. 
Because of this, and for the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. Im grateful to 
Mr D for all his points and for his further points raised in reply to my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and the 
estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman