DRN-2554227
The complaint
Mrs T is a director of F, a limited company. She complains that Santander UK Plc gave her 
wrong information about the maturity date of a business loan owed by F, which resulted in 
an unexpected payment being requested.
What happened
On 3 November 2014, F started a five year business loan of £25,000 plus interest with 
Santander. The monthly repayments were £505, with an original collection day of the 3rd of 
each month. So the maturity date at the start of the loan was 3 November 2019.
In April 2019 Mrs T changed the repayment day to the 30th of each month. After the final 
payment wasnt collected on 30 November 2019, Santander wrote to Mrs T letting her know 
that £505 remained outstanding on the loan. And in March 2020, it said it was intending to let 
credit reference agencies know the account had defaulted due to the outstanding debt. 
Mrs T complained. She said she was told by Santanders call handlers on 5 November and 
again on 2 December 2019, that the maturity date was 3 November 2019 and no further 
payments were due after this date. It was following one of these calls that Santander 
cancelled the direct debit on behalf of F. Mrs T didnt think F should be liable to pay the 
outstanding amount given the errors Santander made.
Santander said due to the change in collection dates, this meant the last payment went 
beyond the original maturity date. Santander accepted its call handlers had made errors, 
which it said was due to them not picking up on the change to the repayment date. 
Santander paid £75 to F for the inconvenience it caused.
In brief, our investigator thought Santanders offer of £75 compensation was fair. And she 
didnt consider the banks errors released F from its liability to repay the loan in full.
Mrs T disagreed. She said she will be affected financially and emotionally if she has to pay 
the outstanding amount to Santander. And as F is no longer trading, theres no adequate 
means of paying something that would have been paid but for Santanders errors. Mrs T 
asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs T, but I wont be addressing every 
single point shes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the 
outcome of Fs complaint. Having reviewed everything, Im not upholding this complaint for 
the following reasons:
It was Mrs Ts choice, as director of F, to change the repayment date. Given shed 
asked in April 2019 for the repayments to be taken later than originally agreed, I think 
it was reasonably foreseeable this would impact on when the loan would be paid in 
full. So I cant conclude the final repayment date was unexpected.
Mrs T says she shouldve been sent information about the impact of the change on 
the maturity date. But transactions statements to F from May 2019, clearly show the 
repayment date moving from the start of each month to the end of each month. 
Further, in Fs business loan summary statements it says If youve chosen a 
different day of the month to pay your loan, then your final payment will fall due after 
the end date shown above. If this situation applies please dont cancel your Direct 
Debit until this final payment has been collected. 
Given these statements, I think Fs directors received sufficient information about the 
outstanding loan balance and collection dates. And I consider it was reasonably clear 
from this information that the last repayment date for the loan was due to be paid on, 
or around, 30 November 2019. I dont think Santanders errors changed that.
Mrs T says shell be affected financially and emotionally if shes required to pay the 
debt in full. But this complaint has been brought on behalf of F. And whilst F is now 
no longer trading, it was told by 14 January 2020 about Santanders errors.
For all these reasons, I cant fairly ask Santander to write-off the outstanding loan 
balance owed by F.
In terms of the distress and inconvenience caused to F, Im satisfied Santanders 
offer of £75, is fair. From what I can see this has already been paid to F, so I wont be 
asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint as I think the compensation of £75 already paid to F for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Santander UK Plc, is fair.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman