DRN-3578160
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) has mis-sold her a multi-
appliance extended warranty.
What happened
Mrs L had a multi-appliance extended warranty with D&G which covered several items,
including her television. When her television developed a fault, she made a claim.
Ultimately Mrs L was unhappy with the settlement offered by D&G, so she brought a
complaint to this service. One of my ombudsmen colleagues considered the case and issued
a final decision.
In this, they said the claim settlement offered by D&G was fair, but they recommended D&G
pay further compensation for their handling of things. They also noted that D&G had
recorded the television on the policy for less than Mrs L paid for it but said this didnt impact
on the settlement offer  which the ombudsman said was fair.
However, Mrs L said the policy had been mis-sold. She said that she was led to believe the
value of the television recorded on the policy was the amount shed receive in the event of a
claim. The ombudsman who considered the complaint about the settlement offer said Mrs L
hadnt previously complained to D&G about the alleged mis-sale, so she would need to
before we could consider that complaint point. Mrs L then raised the complaint with D&G.
D&G didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. They said that at no point during the phone
calls Mrs L had with D&G was it mentioned that a replacement would be based on the
recorded price, or original purchase price. Mrs L remained unhappy and brought the
complaint about the mis-sale to this service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She said shed listened to
the calls Mrs L had with D&G and there wasnt any discussion that a replacement television
would be based on the recorded, or purchase, price. She also said Mrs L was given limited
information over the phone and told that full policy terms would be sent after the call. Our
investigator also said some of the points Mrs L had raised were part of the previous case
considered by this service, so she couldnt comment on them.
Mrs L didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached broadly the same outcome as our investigator, but there were some additional 
reasons. So, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment 
on my findings before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My ombudsman colleague considered the settlement offered by D&G following 
Mrs Ls claim and said that was fair. They also considered the service Mrs L had 
received from D&G and said further compensation should be paid. They said that 
D&G accepted the television value on the policy had been incorrectly recorded, but 
regardless, this didnt impact on the settlement amount offered  which was fair in 
any event.
As these points have already been considered by this service and a final decision 
issued by an ombudsman, I wont be commenting on these further.
My consideration of the case here is only in relation to the alleged mis-sale. Ive 
reached broadly the same outcome as our investigator, but Ive taken into account 
some additional information to that relied on by our investigator. So, Im issuing a 
provisional decision before I reach my final decision.
Calls with D&G
Mrs L has held a multi-appliance plan with D&G for a number of years. Mrs L called 
in August 2019 to make changes to the policy and she says the policy was mis-sold 
then. This is because she says she was told that any claim settlement for the insured 
television would be £1,500, which was the amount recorded on the policy. But shes 
since received less than that.
It was considered in the previous case by my ombudsman colleague whether the 
actual amount recorded on the policy wouldve affected the settlement Mrs L 
received when she made a claim. And they said it didnt, and the settlement offer 
from D&G was fair. Im not revisiting that again here.
Ive listened to the call from August 2019 where Mrs L says the mis-sale occurred. 
During the call, the agent noted the television was currently recorded with a purchase 
price of £2,000 and they asked whether that was correct. Mrs L said that the 
purchase price was actually £4,000, but she had been told on previous policies that 
the maximum value an insured appliance could be was £2,000, and that shed 
agreed to go ahead with that at the time.
The agent explained the policy terms had changed since then, and the maximum 
purchase price of items D&G could insure was currently £1,500. Mrs L said she was 
unhappy D&G were reducing the value, but the agent explained that the terms had 
changed and that was now the maximum value of an item they could insure on their 
multi-plan policies. Mrs L said she was happy to proceed on that basis.
During the call the agent gave a limited summary of the key features and benefits 
and explained policy documents would be sent outlining the full cover. Mrs L was 
happy to proceed on this basis and the policy was then set up.Aside from the brief discussion on the maximum value of items D&G could insure, as 
Ive noted above, there wasnt any discussion or confirmation that settlement would 
be based on that value. So, having considered the call where Mrs L alleges a mis-
sale occurred, Im not in agreement that the agent advised the settlement would be 
the amount noted on the policy. Consequently, Im not minded to conclude that the 
policy was mis-sold.
Ive also listened to calls Mrs L had with D&G in 2017 and 2020, separate to the 2019 
call she alleges the mis-sale occurred in. And there was no discussion in these calls 
either that the settlement would be based on the purchase price or amount noted on 
the policy.
Policy terms
My ombudsman colleague decided that the settlement offered by D&G was in line 
with the terms of Mrs Ls policy, so Im not commenting on that specifically further.
But in all the calls Ive listened to, including the August 2019 call where the alleged 
mis-sale occurred (in which I dont agree it was mis-sold), Mrs L was told limited 
features and benefits of the cover. And she was advised documents would be sent 
after the sale which would outline the full cover. And Mrs L was happy with that and 
proceeded with the policy.
Im satisfied there wasnt anything within the brief policy summary given during the 
calls that implied the settlement would be based on the purchase price or value noted 
on the policy. So, Im not minded to conclude that it was mis-sold.
Mrs L says she didnt receive the policy terms after the alleged mis-sale occurred in
August 2019. Our investigator said they would check with D&G, but they didnt 
provide Mrs L with an answer on that point.
Ive since obtained screen logs from D&G (which have now been provided to Mrs L). 
These show documents were sent to Mrs L on 9 August 2019. And Ive also seen a 
copy of the documents that were sent at the time. Therefore, Im satisfied D&G has 
sufficiently demonstrated these were sent to Mrs L and I cant hold D&G responsible 
if they werent received.
Delays and service
Mrs L has also complained about the service she received from D&G and amount of 
time her claim took, and the impact of this on her. But this was already considered by 
my colleague in their previous final decision. So, Im not commenting on that again 
here.
Instead I can only consider any delays and the service received from D&G in relation 
to the current mis-sale complaint. But Im not currently persuaded there were any 
delays, or that a mis-sale occurred for the reasons Ive outlined. D&G looked into 
Mrs Ls complaint about the alleged mis-sale and responded within the eight-week 
timescale the Financial Conduct Authority rules allow them to look into complaints.
Therefore, having considered everything, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.The responses to my provisional decision
D&G responded accepting my provisional decision, they didnt add any further comments.
Mrs L responded, whilst she said she disagreed with the provisional decision, she didnt 
have any further comments to make in response to it beyond the points she had previously 
made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional findings I reached. Having done so, and as 
neither party has provided any new comments or information which have changed my 
findings, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman