DRN-4346719
The complaint
Miss R complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled her claim on her
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint was a car, first registered in 2018.
For the year from early September 2022, Miss R had the car insured on a comprehensive
policy with Admiral.
Unfortunately, on 6 December 2022, Miss R reported to Admiral that an accident had
damaged the car. The car wasnt safe to drive.
On about 6 January 2023, Admiral arranged for a garage to collect the damaged car.
The garage said the car was beyond economic repair.
By 10 January 2023, Miss R had made a complaint to Admiral, including about delay and
poor communication.
On 13 January 2023, Miss R accepted Admirals pre-accident valuation of the car.
By a final response dated late February 2023, Admiral upheld the complaint about
communication and said it was sending Miss R a cheque for £125.00.
Miss R replied to that final response, adding some new points of complaint including delay in
receipt of the settlement for the car. At the end of February 2023, Admiral said it was
sending a cheque for a further £100.00. That made a total of £225.00.
Miss R brought her complaint to us in late March 2023.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that
£225.00 was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by Admirals
communication failures. 
But he thought that Admirals delays had meant that Miss R had been without a vehicle for 
about 14 days longer than she should have been. The investigator recommended that 
Admiral should pay Miss R a further £140.00.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss R 
and to Admiral on 1 September 2023. I summarise my findings:
I was minded to find that Admirals payment of £225.00 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its shortcomings caused Miss R. 
However, I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral  in addition  
to pay Miss R interest at our usual rate on the settlement of her claim.
Subject to any further information from Miss R or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to 
pay Miss R:
1. simple interest at the yearly rate of 8% on the sum it paid her in settlement of her
claim, for the period 6 January 2023 to 27 January 2023. If Admiral considers that its
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it
should tell Miss R how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Miss R accepted the provisional decision. Admiral hasnt responded to the provisional 
decision. I see no reason to change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the policy terms, I find that Miss R would only have been entitled to a courtesy car if
and when Admiral was repairing her car  and not if it was beyond economic repair.
The accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Miss R some distress and
inconvenience  especially if her car was beyond economic repair. Miss R was going to have
to contact Admiral, provide information and sometimes to wait for a response.
Nevertheless, she was entitled to a reasonable standard of service. And Ive seen many
examples of Admiral not responding promptly to the claim, not communicating with its
repairer and not communicating with Miss R  even when it had promised to call her back.
Admirals shortcomings of communication had an impact on Miss R. That included a feeling
that she wasnt getting the service she was entitled to. Also, Miss R felt that she had to
spend valuable time chasing Admiral or its garages to get on with things or to find out what
was happening.
Miss R hasnt pursued her complaint that Admiral should make a refund of premium. And I
wouldnt find it fair to direct Admiral, in addition to having paid a total loss claim, to make a
refund of premium.
I can understand why Miss R felt that Admiral didnt really start dealing with her claim until
after the first month. She hadnt got the use of her car or of a courtesy car.
From Miss Rs response to the final response, I accept that she hadnt received the
settlement cheque on 23 January 2023 and didnt receive cleared funds until about 27
January 2023. So - having made the claim in early December 2022 - she didnt receive
settlement from Admiral until late January 2023, a period of nearly two months.
However, Miss R has said the following:
I managed to arrange a short term loan of a family vehicle, which I was responsible
for paying the insurance for, therefore paying double insurance. The vehicle inquestion was not available to me for the full duration of this 2 month period  thus
impacting on both work and social life.
She has also said the following:
I rely on a vehicle not only to get to work, but for my job (business cover for
carrying/delivering equipment). I have had to change  appointments in order to use
a pool vehicle at work to ensure insurance covers me and equipment/vehicle.
I havent seen enough evidence of when Miss R agreed to buy a replacement vehicle. From 
what she has said, I cant conclude that Miss R was without the use of a vehicle for any 
identifiable number of days. In any event, as she wasnt entitled to a courtesy car, I dont  
find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay compensation for loss of use of a vehicle.
Rather, I find that - but for the shortcomings in its communication  Admiral could and should 
have got a settlement payment into Miss Rs account within a month of the claim, that is by 
about 6 January 2023. 
Putting things right
Overall I find that Admirals payment of £225.00 was fair and reasonable compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience its shortcomings caused Miss R. However, I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Admiral  in addition  to pay Miss R interest at our usual rate on the 
sum it paid her in settlement of her claim, for the period 6 January 2023 to 27 January 2023. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Miss R:
1. simple interest at the yearly rate of 8% on the sum it paid her in settlement of her 
claim, for the period 6 January 2023 to 27 January 2023. If Admiral considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Miss R how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman