DRN-3282594
The complaint
A partnership Ill call T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined its application 
for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL). 
The complaint is brought on Ts behalf by one of the partners, Mr P. 
What happened
T had a business account with HSBC. It applied for a BBL in July 2020, but despite Mr P 
chasing for updates, the bank didnt respond until October when it sent the facility offer letter. 
When HSBC received the signed offer letter back from T, it completed further checks and 
decided that the partnership didnt meet the BBL Scheme eligibility criteria as it hadnt been 
trading on or before 1 March 2020. The bank also said it couldnt see evidence of the annual 
turnover figure Mr P had declared. So HSBC declined Ts application. 
HSBC said it didnt think Mr P had made an accurate declaration on Ts BBL application and 
therefore it had exercised an event of default in line with the terms of the offer letter and 
terminated the agreement. Mr P didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. But HSBC 
maintained its decision and said it wouldnt consider any further application from T. So Mr P 
asked this service to look into the matter.  
Mr P says that T had been trading on 1 March 2020 but using his personal account for its 
transactions as Ts income was mostly from cash payments and the business account didnt 
have a debit card. Hes also unhappy that HSBC didnt ask him for any evidence to support 
Ts application. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought that HSBC could have 
asked Mr P more clearly to provide supporting evidence showing that T was trading prior to 
1 March 2020. He also thought the banks reasoning for declining the loan was unclear and 
that it had taken too long to assess Ts BBL application. So he recommended that HSBC pay 
T £300 compensation. However, he thought it was reasonable for HSBC not to provide T 
with a BBL as the bank couldnt evidence it was trading through either the business account 
or Mr Ps personal account. 
HSBC accepted the investigators view, but Mr P didnt. He said it shouldnt matter which 
account T was trading through and that the partnership should be given the BBL as this was 
a government scheme. So he asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Applicants had to meet certain criteria to be eligible for a BBL. This included the requirement 
to have been carrying on business on 1 March 2020, and that the amount borrowed be no 
more than 25% of their annual turnover. In addition to these criteria, there were checks that 
had to be made - with some discretion for lenders to have the final say as to whether to 
approve the loan.
When Mr P returned the signed offer letter, HSBC reviewed Ts entitlement to the BBL. The 
bank concluded that T wasnt eligible as it couldnt see that the partnership had been trading 
prior to 1 March 2020, and it couldnt verify the annual turnover figure of around £42,000 
which Mr P had declared on Ts application was accurate. I think HSBCs position was 
reasonable because:
There were no transactions going through Ts own account
Mr P says that he was using his personal account for business purposes as Ts 
business account didnt have a debit card. He feels HSBC should have looked at this 
account instead. There was no requirement on the bank to do this, particularly as 
applications needed to be processed quickly. In any event, HSBC has told us it 
looked at Mr Ps personal account statements, and it wasnt satisfied that they 
showed T met the Scheme criteria either. They show varying amounts of cash 
deposits, but these deposits also dont add up to the turnover figure Mr P declared. 
Mr P also hasnt provided any supporting documents to evidence what these 
payments are for and how they relate to T. 
Mr P has also provided a tax return and a copy of his business rates to show he was 
trading on 1 March 2020. But even if I accept that T was trading on this date, I think 
HSBC reasonably concluded that there was insufficient evidence to support the 
turnover figure Mr P had declared  as this wasnt for the date in question  and 
didnt correlate to the cash deposits through the account.  
Mr P is unhappy that HSBC withdrew the BBL having decided T was ineligible after the loan 
offer had been signed and returned. But lenders were entitled to keep things under review 
even after a loan offer had been issued and, ultimately, wouldnt be expected to provide 
facilities to applicants that were considered ineligible. HSBC had the power to terminate the 
agreement in certain circumstances, which included if any of the information used to apply 
for the loan was materially misleading or incorrect  which the bank reasonably believed was 
the case with Ts application. 
I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in reviewing Ts eligibility after the BBL offer had been 
issued or declining the application at this point. As the agreement had been entered into, the 
bank exercised an Event of Default to terminate it, as it was entitled to. However, T hadnt 
actually received the BBL so this process - and the way the bank explained it - was unclear. I 
think it would have been clearer had the bank simply said it didnt think that T met the 
Scheme criteria - which would have prevented Mr P making further calls from trying to 
understand HSBCs decision. 
Ive also looked at the time it took HSBC to decide to decline Ts application and I dont think 
this was reasonable. The BBL Scheme was designed so that businesses affected by the 
Coronavirus pandemic could access finance quickly. However, I can see that it took the bank 
three months to send out the offer letter and a further two months to decline Ts application - 
despite Mr P repeatedly chasing the bank - which I dont think was reasonable. 
Overall I think HSBC caused inconvenience to T because it took too long to make its 
decision to decline the BBL application. And when the bank finally made this decision, it 
didnt explain clearly enough why it had come to this conclusion  meaning Mr P spent time 
chasing HSBC for further information behind its decision. So I think the bank should pay T 
£300 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its actions.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay T £300 
for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman