DRN-3031474
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1995 when 
Mrs and Mr R took out a further advance on their mortgage. Mrs and Mr R say Santander 
UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes                 
Mrs and Mr Rs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs and Mr Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Rs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding             
Mrs and Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs and Mr R have said the PPI policy was included with the package of the further 
advance on their mortgage, but I think Santander made it clear that Mrs and Mr R didnt 
have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out. 
Ive seen a copy of the further advance application document. It has been completed by 
hand with details of Mrs and Mr Rs requirements for the further advance and their 
circumstances at the time. It records that Mr R was employed and Mrs R was self-
employed and had been for around ten years. 
The document has a section entitled Redundancy, Accident and Sickness Protection 
followed by a brief description of the policy and notice that the unemployment element 
wasnt available to the self-employed. I see that the relevant box had been ticked so that 
the policy was taken out for the benefit of Mrs R only  the mortgage and further 
advance were in joint names  which suggests to me that the policy was discussed at 
the point of sale and Mrs and Mr R made a decision about how it could have been of 
most benefit to them. So, I think Mrs and Mr R would have realised the policy was 
optional but chose to take it to give Mrs R benefits she wouldnt otherwise have had if 
she was too unwell to work. 
While we dont have all of the documents from the time of the sale but to be fair to 
Mrs and Mr R, in my decision Ive assumed Santander recommended the PPI, so it had 
to check that the PPI was right for them. And the evidence about Mrs and Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them. For example, Mrs R was eligible for the cover  the accident and 
sickness benefit  and although they may have had had existing means  the savings 
Mrs R told us about  they still seem to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Rs self-employment status which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim for accident and sickness. Although Mrs R says she had a 
medical condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong 
for Santander to have recommended it. I say this because the condition Mrs R told us 
about was a one-off operation which took place over 20 years before the policy was 
taken. And she didnt tell us of any subsequent problems or need for further time off from 
work. So, I think it unlikely that Mrs R would have thought it likely she would have 
needed to have made a claim on the policy because of it. The policy document Ive seen 
from around the time of the sale suggests there were also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mrs and Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs R as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs and Mr R would have declined the cover had Santander done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs and Mr R would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs and Mr Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs and Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Rs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Santander doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman