DRN-3722501
The complaint
Ms L complains that she was mis-sold a Home Pack (HP) packaged bank account in July 
2012 by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L says that Barclays added the HP to her account without her knowledge and it was 
unsuitable for her. 
Barclays says Ms L chose to take the HP out based on the information about the cost and 
benefits it provided to her.
Neither party has any record or clear recollection of the sale, which is not surprising after so 
many years have passed.
I wasnt present at the sale so I cant know what happened, I can only look at the evidence 
available today and the testimony of both parties.
Having done so I think its more likely than not that Barclays did not mis-sell the HP for the 
following reasons.
Barclays and other banks procedures require written authorisation and a signature to 
change a customers bank account. So, it is very difficult for a change to be done without the 
customers agreement by an employee either by mistake or intentionally. So, I think its 
unlikely Barclays did this without Ms Ls permission.
As the HP fee appeared from the start in a clear manner on Ms Ls monthly statement, if she 
not wanted it, I think she would have noticed it and queried it at the time of the sale or soon 
after.
But she didnt and she retained the HP through many years of copious correspondence 
about terms and conditions changes, and annual reviews of the benefits.
Barclays and its supplier have also provided evidence that Ms L used the product shortly 
after the sale by registering a computer for insurance cover.
So I think its more likely than not that Ms L knew she had a choice and chose to take the HP 
out on the basis of the information Barclays provided and I cant see any evidence that it was 
unsuitable for her.
Ms L says that she rang Barclays about three years ago to query the monthly account 
charge, and Barclays told her it was a banking charge. But Barclays says it has no record of 
such a contact. 
And it has provided evidence that since then it has sent two annual eligibility letters to Ms L 
explaining her accounts benefits and monthly charges. And again, if she had not wanted the 
account, I think its more likely than not she would have closed the account in response to 
those, but she didnt.
So, although I know Ms L will be disappointed, based on the evidence I have, I think its 
more likely than not that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in this matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman