DRN-3341234
The complaint
In summary, Mr S has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV), 
cancelled his car insurance policy without informing him. 
What happened
Mr S had insured his car with LV for a number of years. The policy had automatically 
renewed since it was first taken out.
In August 2021, Mr S contacted LV to inform it he had been involved in an accident. It was at 
this point he was told his policy hadnt been renewed due to a change in its underwriting 
criteria. And LV told him he wasnt covered for the accident damage.
In response to Mr S complaint, LV said it had sent two notifications to him by e-mail in June 
and July 2021. These explained that it would no longer be able to offer cover on his car and 
it wouldnt be offering him a renewal quote.
Mr S concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. She explained why she didnt 
think LV had done anything wrong. Mr S responded explaining why he didnt agree with what 
the investigator had said. The investigator responded to the points made by Mr S. As he still 
didnt agree with what she had said, the case has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr S policy had auto renewed each year after it was first set up. The 
crux of the issue I need to decide is whether LV acted fairly and reasonably in how it 
communicated its decision not to renew Mr S policy. 
In reaching my decision Ive focussed on the key issues that I think are relevant in order for 
me to decide if LV has done anything wrong. That means I wont have addressed every point 
Mr S has made. But I want to reassure Mr S and LV that I have thought carefully about 
everything they have provided me with. 
In June 2021 LV wrote to Mr S to inform him that as a result of a change in its underwriting 
approach to his type of car, it wouldnt be offering a renewal price when his insurance was 
due to renew in August. It then wrote to him again towards the beginning of July to confirm 
that it wouldnt be insuring his car and the date his existing cover would end.
 
First of all, Ive thought about the information LV provided to Mr S about the non-renewal of 
his insurance. Im satisfied that the information it sent, gave him sufficient information to 
understand his insurance wasnt going to be renewed and the reasons why. It also reminded 
him when his cover would end. And I think the information was sent to him in sufficient time 
prior to his policy ending, to enable him to make alternative arrangements to insure his car. 
Ive also thought about how LV communicated this information to Mr S which was by e-mail. 
Mr S thinks it should have done more, as he never received the e-mails and therefore wasnt 
aware that his policy wasnt being renewed. 
When Mr S first took out the policy, I can hear from the phone call provided by LV, that he 
agreed that the documents should be e-mailed to him. On the subsequent renewal of the 
policy the documents were also e-mailed to Mr S. And LVs records show that they were e-
mailed to the same e-mail address that it had for Mr S whilst the policy was in force. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about how LV communicated with him. But I dont agree 
with him. LV had communicated with Mr S by e-mail whilst the policy was in force. And Ive 
not seen any evidence that he hadnt been happy for him it to communicate with him this 
way, or that he had previously had problems receiving documentation by e-mail. So, I dont 
think LV was wrong to have communicated its decision not to renew Mr S policy by e-mail 
as well. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman