DRN-4324329
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is about a claim she made on her DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited (DAS) commercial legal expenses insurance policy.
Mrs P, through her representative, says DAS has treated her unfairly 
Although Mrs P is represented in this complaint, I shall refer to all submissions as being her 
own for ease of reference.
What happened
Mrs Ps complaint follows on from a previous complaint she made to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Another Ombudsman issued a final decision in that complaint. The 
complaint concerned DAS decision to turn down cover on a claim Mrs P made under the 
same commercial legal expenses insurance policy that is the subject of this present 
complaint. The Ombudsman who determined that complaint directed that DAS was wrong to 
turn down cover in the way that it had and directed that it Reconsider Mrs As claim under 
the policy terms and conditions disregarding the terms they relied on when they declined it.
Following that decision, DAS considered Mrs Ps claim again and determined that it fell 
within cover. Some months later DAS reviewed its earlier decision and decided that it was 
wrong to have granted cover. It said that the claim wasnt one that fell within the policy terms 
because it was being pursued in the Scottish Land Court and the terms didnt provide for this 
situation. This reason differed from the earlier reasons DAS gave to decline cover, which 
were overturned by the Ombudsman who decided that complaint. 
DAS accepted that in failing to decline cover after the Ombudsmans decision and doing so 
some months after it accepted the policy covered Mrs P, it caused her distress and 
inconvenience. In recognition of this, it agreed to fund Mrs Ps reasonable legal costs up to 
the date it later declined cover and pay her £250 in compensation.
Mrs P disagrees with the position DAS has taken. She says that its actions have prevented it 
from declining the claim further because it accepted there was cover following the 
Ombudsmans decision. She also feels that DAS isnt entitled to decline cover at all given 
the previous Ombudsmans decision and to do so is unfair. Mrs P has also made 
submissions about the term DAS has relied on- she feels its not relevant to her claim and 
that the timing of its decision has prejudiced her ability to request the claim be heard at 
another Court, which would be covered by the policy. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Ps complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs P doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs Ps complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the previous Ombudsmans decision and whether DAS was entitled to 
decline the claim at all. Mrs P says it wasnt and that the decision prevented this from 
happening. I dont agree. In her decision, the Ombudsman said DAS needed to Reconsider 
Mrs As claim under the policy terms and conditions disregarding the terms they relied on 
when they declined it.
That doesnt mean that DAS wasnt entitled to decline the claim at all. Rather it was directed 
to reconsider the claim under the remaining policy terms. The only caveat to that was that it 
couldnt rely on the same terms it previously used to decline the claim. If the decision had 
directed DAS to simply accept the claim without further direction, I would have reached a 
different conclusion but the award itself is clear. DAS was entitled to decline the claim under 
different policy terms, if it thought these applied.
The difficulty in this case is that DAS didnt do that immediately. Rather it accepted the claim 
and began funding it. So, I appreciate why Mrs P is unhappy that it changed its position 
some months on. DAS has accepted it was wrong to do this and I agree that it should have 
acted diligently after the Ombudsmans decision by carrying out a proper assessment of the 
claim at that juncture. By failing to do so, it led Mrs P to conclude shed have cover and 
could continue with the litigation she was involved in with the benefit of that, subject to her 
claim having reasonable prospects of success. But this doesnt mean that DAS wasnt 
entitled to change its mind or that it was estopped from doing so when it discovered its error. 
Whilst this would have been disappointing for Mrs P, DAS isnt obliged to cover a claim that 
its policy terms dont provide for. Ive considered those further below. 
The policy provides cover for:
ARBITRATION & AGRICULTURAL SCOTTISH LAND COURT HEARINGS
(a) We will represent you at arbitration or at hearings of the Scottish Land Court relating to 
disputes arising out of a contract of tenancy or lease regulated by the 1991 Agricultural 
Holdings (Scotland} Act or 2003 Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act under the terms of the 
tenancy or lease or as directed by statute.
(I) Arbitration relating to any dispute arising out of a contract of tenancy or lease regulated by 
the 1991 Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act or the 2003 Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) 
Act includes determination by an independent expert or mediation where the contract of 
tenancy or lease states that determination by an independent expert or mediation is the sole 
means of resolving the dispute.
I take Mrs Ps point that the type of claim she is engaged in isnt the type of claim described 
in these terms. Her claim does not involve arbitration and its not a Scottish Land Claim. In 
addition, its not an end of tenancy dispute. Rather it relates to whether a statutory notice to 
transfer the tenancy into her name, following the death of her Father, was valid. But I dont 
think that helps her case much. The fact that her claim isnt one that falls within the 
description set out in the policy further supports that its not capable of cover. 
That said, it seems to me that DAS was prepared to accept the claim was covered as 
representation at a hearing in the Scottish Land Court arising out of a lease, but when it 
realised (very late) that the claim was being pursued in the Court of Session, it determined 
that cover wasnt available.
I know that Mrs P feels that DAS has discretion to cover the claim because its policy terms set out:
We agree to provide the insurance described in this policy for the insured person in respect 
of any insured incident arising in connection with the business shown it the schedule, in 
return for payment of the premium and subject to the terms, conditions, exclusion and 
limitation set out in this policy, provided that:

5 any legal proceedings will be dealt with by a court, or other body which we agree to, 
within the countries covered.
But I dont think this means theres cover under the policy for the type of claim Mrs P is 
engaged in. Thats because the term noted above require there to be an insured incident, 
and for the reasons set out by DAS - namely that the claim is being pursued in the Court of 
Session, this isnt an insured incident thats capable of cover.
Mrs P has said that DAS conduct has prevented her from taking action to bring her claim 
within cover. As I understand it there came a point in proceedings where Mrs P could have 
applied to have the case moved to the Scottish Land Court. But because DAS accepted her 
claim, she didnt pursue this. She says that had she known this would mean she wasnt 
covered, she would have requested her claim be moved so she could have the benefit of 
funding. Ive thought about this carefully, but the starting point was that this claim was 
always being litigated in the Court of Session. And whilst there was scope for applying for it 
to be moved, I havent seen persuasive evidence to suggest that would definitely have 
happened, such that it would bring Mrs Ps claim within cover. I do however agree that she 
lost the opportunity to pursue this application, but I dont think the potential to bring the claim 
within cover means that it would have been, with certainty. 
And whilst I appreciate that Mrs P was led to believe she would have cover for her claim, 
then subsequently had this withdrawn, I think DAS has proposed adequate compensation for 
this by offering to cover her reasonable legal costs for the period after the Ombudsmans 
decision, until it withdrew cover, as well as £250 for the trouble and upset this caused her. I 
think this is fair because if things had gone as they should have, Mrs P wouldnt have been 
entitled to any cover at all so she has benefitted from some contribution to her legal costs 
that she wouldnt otherwise have been entitled to.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint against DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman