DRN-2958174
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon, unfairly charged her higher 
premiums for her term assurance policy.
For the purposes of the complaint Mrs T was represented by Mr T, but for ease in this 
decision I will refer to his actions as those of Mrs T.
What happened
In 2012 Mrs T took out an eight-year level term life assurance policy with Aegon via an 
Independent Financial Advisor (IFA).
As part of the application, Mrs T had a medical interview over the telephone with a company 
appointed by Aegon who Ill refer to as M. A summary report prepared by M shows Mrs T 
disclosed she had diverticulosis. 
After reviewing the report, Aegon agreed to offer Mrs T a policy but rated this, which means 
her premium was increased.
In 2020 Mrs T contacted Aegon as she wanted to extend the policy term. She was told that 
in order to do this she needed to complete a health declaration. Mrs T was unaware she 
would need to do this, and she raised a complaint with Aegon as she felt she wasnt told this 
when she initially took out the policy. As a result, she had concerns about the suitability of 
the policy she was sold. At this time Mrs T also asked about why Aegon had charged her a 
higher premium. 
Aegon responded to Mrs Ts complaint explaining it didnt sell the policy and so it wasnt the 
right business to deal with concerns about this or about suitability. It told her these concerns 
would need to be raised with her IFA. Aegon also explained that the policy had been rated 
and a higher premium charged as the underwriter noted Mrs T had diverticulitis.
However, Mrs T didnt have diverticulitis, she had diverticulosis which is a different condition. 
Mrs T then raised a further complaint with Aegon about this error. She noted the former was 
a more serious condition and so she felt shed been unfairly charged a higher premium. 
Aegon looked into things and agreed the underwriter had made a mistake in their written 
assessment and it apologised for this. However, it said this was simply a spelling mistake 
and that the same higher premium would have been charged for Mrs Ts diverticulosis. So, it 
didnt think it needed to do anything further.
Mrs T remained unhappy and so brought her complaint to our service. After investigating the 
complaint, our investigator was of the view Aegon would have applied the same rating to 
Mrs Ts policy regardless. Given this, they didnt think Aegon needed to do anything further.
Mrs T didnt agree, so the matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of points have been raised by both parties, this decision only addresses 
those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I can see our investigator has explained that any concerns about the sale of the policy and 
its suitability would need to be raised with the IFA who was responsible for the sale of the 
policy. So, I wont be commenting on these concerns within this decision.
My role here is to look at whether Aegon made any mistakes. If so, I need to look at the 
impact of these and put Mrs T back into the position she would have been in had errors not 
been made.
Its evident that the underwriter made a mistake in their summary notes at the point of 
application, referring to the wrong condition. Its not clear to me whether this was simply a 
typing error as Aegon has suggested or whether the underwriter misread the listed condition 
in Ms report and misunderstood what condition Mrs T had reported. But I dont think the 
precise nature of this mistake matters here, because what I need to look at is what would 
have happened if the correct condition was considered at the point of application.  
To do this, Ive reviewed the relevant underwriting criteria and the underwriting notes made 
at the time of the application. Because this is commercially sensitive information, Im not able 
to share this evidence with Mrs T. But having looked into this carefully, I think Aegon is 
correct in saying it would have rated Mrs Ts policy for diverticulosis and charged the same 
higher premium. 
I note that Mrs T doesnt feel this can be accurate given that diverticulosis is a less serious 
condition than diverticulitis. But Im satisfied that this rating was in line with Aegons 
underwriting criteria in place at that time. So, whilst I recognise there was an error here, I 
dont think this ultimately impacted the rating applied to Mrs Ts policy. And Im satisfied 
Mrs T hasnt lost out as a result of this. Aegon has since acknowledged its mistake and 
apologised to Mrs T. Given this, I dont think it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman