DRN-1465942
 
The complaint
Mr R complains HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to tell him a payment plan would adversely affect 
his credit file.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr R agreed a payment plan with HSBC. Hes unhappy he wasnt told 
missed payments would be reported to credit reference agencies. 
In June 2019 HSBC responded to Mr Rs complaint. It accepted it had failed to tell him about 
the impact on his credit record. It said it would remove information about missed payments 
for the two months the plan covered. It apologised for the inconvenience caused and paid 
him £75 compensation. Mr R wasnt satisfied with that. So he came to this service. He said, 
in October 2019, the missed payment information still hadnt been amended. He added that 
the adverse credit records had prevented him from re-mortgaging. He feels hes lost 
thousands of pounds as a result of whats happened.
Our Investigator didnt recommend HSBC do anything differently. She felt it had done 
enough already by removing the records of missed payments and paying Mr R £75 
compensation. She said he hadnt shown he had suffered any financial loss as a result of 
anything HSBC had done wrong. Mr R didnt accept that. So the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not making HSBC do 
anything differently.
HSBC has already accepted it didnt tell Mr R about the impact the payment plan would have 
on his credit records. So Ive considered if its done enough to make up for its mistake.  
HSBC says its removed the missed payments information for the two months covered by 
the payment plan. Mr R hasnt provided anything, like a recent credit report, to show that 
hasnt happened. So I think its most likely HSBC did make the amendments.
Mr R asked HSBC to amend records for further periods not covered by the payment plan. As 
far as Im aware it hasnt done so. He hasnt explained why that should happen. Im not 
aware of any reason. So Im not going to ask HSBC to do that.
The missed payments were on Mr Rs credit record for a period of time. Hes mentioned not 
being able to re-mortgage as a result. He says he lost out because of that. But he hasnt 
provided anything to show those records stopped him from re-mortgaging. Neither has he 
shown anything that makes me think he lost out financially because of anything HSBC did 
wrong. So Im not going to ask HSBC to make up for any loss.HSBC accepted its mistake caused Mr R some inconvenience. Having considered what 
happened I feel £75 is enough to recognise the impact on him. So Im not making HSBC pay 
Mr R any extra compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making HSBC UK Bank Plc pay Mr R any extra 
compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman