DRN-4090692
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, didnt approve his 
application for a new account.
What happened
Mr B applied to First Direct for a new account. However, his application was declined. Mr B 
wasnt happy about this and felt there was no reason why his application shouldnt have 
been successful, including that he had an excellent credit history. So, he raised a complaint.
First Direct responded to Mr B and explained that his application failed because it didnt 
meet their internal credit scoring criteria. However, First Direct acknowledged that when     
Mr B had first queried why his application hadnt been approved, he should have been given 
the opportunity to appeal the decision, which didnt happen. First Direct apologised to Mr B 
for this and offered to make a payment of £50 to him as compensation for any trouble and 
upset he may have incurred. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with First Directs response, including that First Direct were refusing to 
remove the credit search theyd conducted during the application process from Mr Bs credit 
file. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel First Direct had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B feels that there isnt anything in his credit history such that his application to First Direct 
should have been declined. Because of this, Mr B thinks First Direct may have considered 
incorrect information about him when assessing his application. 
But First Direct have explained to this service exactly why Mr Bs application was declined. 
And while Im unable to divulge this information to Mr B, Im satisfied that First Direct havent 
acted unfairly in taking the decision that they did. 
Ultimately, it isnt for this service to instruct First Direct that they must approve, or should 
have approved, Mr Bs application for a new account. Instead, its for Mr B to appeal the 
declining of his application with First Direct, so that any concerns First Direct may have had 
could be addressed and Mr Bs application considered by them again. 
First Direct have acknowledged that Mr B should have given the opportunity to appeal their 
decision when he first spoke with them about it  rather than being told to put his objections 
in writing, as actually took place. And First Direct have apologised to Mr B for this and 
offered to pay £50 compensation to him as a result.
First Direct did later correct their position during their handling of Mr Bs complaint and 
offered Mr B the opportunity to appeal. But at that time, Mr B told First Direct that he no 
longer wanted an account with them, and so no appeal to the declining of the new account 
application was ever formally made.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but I feel the offer of £50 made by First Direct is 
a fair one here and I can confirm its commensurate with what I may have instructed First 
Direct to pay had they not already offered to do so. 
In arriving at this position, Ive considered that Mr B did incur some upset and inconvenience 
because he wasnt offered the opportunity to appeal in the first instance, but also that he was 
given the opportunity to put his objections in writing, and that Mr B has since decided that he 
doesnt want an account with First Direct. 
Mr B is also unhappy that First Direct wont remove the credit search they conducted during 
the application assessment process from his credit file. But businesses such as First Direct 
have an obligation to report credit searches that they conduct. And as explained, I dont feel 
that First Direct have acted unfairly in declining Mr Bs application as they did. And for these 
reasons, I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
Ultimately, I dont think that First Direct have done anything wrong here. This is because Im 
satisfied First Direct did assess Mr Bs account application in a fair manner. And while I 
appreciate Mr B may like to better understand why First Direct declined his application, First 
Direct arent obliged to provide that information to him. Additionally, because Mr B chose not 
to appeal First Directs decision, First Direct werent able to ask him any questions and 
obtain any information from him which may have caused them to reconsider their decision.
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Bs favour, Ill only be 
doing so to instruct First Direct to pay Mr B the £50 compensation that theyve already 
offered to pay, and which Im satisfied is a fair compensation amount. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
First Direct must make a payment of £50 to Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First 
Direct, on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman