DRN-3963035
The complaint
Miss C complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles Card, should not have agreed her 
credit card application or increased her credit limit, as the lending was both unaffordable and 
irresponsible.
What happened
Miss C applied and was accepted for a Marbles credit card with NewDay in February 2016, 
with a credit limit of £600. Over the next two years she was offered two credit limit increases. 
NewDays lending decisions in summary: 
Date Limit
Marbles account opening February 2016 £600
1st Marbles increase November 2016 £1,500
2nd Marbles increase April 2018 £2,500 
In September 2021 Miss C complained to NewDay. She said when NewDay offered her the 
credit card it failed to check her level of income or disposable income and her financial 
circumstances.
In its final response NewDay said Miss C met its acceptance criteria for the credit card and 
she was offered a credit limit of £600. It said Miss C was provided with the account correctly. 
With regards to the credit limit increases it said each limit was provided to Miss C correctly 
and adequate checks were completed to ensure these were affordable. 
Miss C didn't agree and brought her complaint to this service. She said at the time she was 
given the card she was on a very low level of income and was a single parent on benefits. 
She said she was struggling to pay her bills and was using a credit card to buy food. Miss C 
said she was suffering from anxiety and stress. 
Our investigator concluded that the checks NewDay carried out prior to the lending decisions 
in February and November 2016 didn't show any signs that Miss C was likely to find the 
lending unsustainable and unaffordable. But with regards to the credit increase in March 
2018 he said NewDay ought to have known that Miss C wasn't in a position to repay this 
credit and shouldn't have lent further to Miss C on that basis. 
Miss C accepted this view. NewDay disagreed with the investigator and asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. It said it didn't believe the information available to it in February and 
March 2018 showed any evidence that Miss C wasn't able to sustainably manage her 
repayments. 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 January 2023. I said:  
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
is set out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when Ive considered Miss 
Cs complaint. 
Before granting credit, NewDay was required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Cs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is 
often referred to as an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. 
This means it needed to be concerned with whether Miss C could sustainably afford 
the borrowing - considering her specific circumstances - rather than how statistically 
likely she was to repay. The latter is the risk posed to NewDay as the lender, or their 
credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on several 
factors and there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate. 
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent 
 so the higher the amount, the greater the checks likely should be, and the lower the 
amount, then fewer checks can possibly be made. 
If I think Miss C has been disadvantaged in any way by NewDays actions, Ill go on 
to consider what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
Account opening 
Date Limit
Marbles account opening February 2016 £600
NewDay said its an instant credit provider, and most of its applications are 
completed online. It said this means it doesnt require evidence of income and 
expenditure, but instead it uses data submitted by the applicant and that supplied by 
the credit reference agencies (CRAs). NewDay said at the end of the application 
process, the applicant is asked to agree that the information they have supplied is 
true to the best of their knowledge. 
I've seen a copy of the application data provided by Miss C. She declared she had an 
annual income of £20,770 (equating to an average of £1,731 per month) and a total 
unsecured credit of £400. Miss C did have two defaults recorded with the CRAs but 
almost two years had passed since the most recent default. 
The checks that NewDay did prior to the account opening dont appear to have 
indicated that the lending would be unaffordable. Miss C provided her bank 
statements to this service for the period covering this account opening. I cant see 
anything in these statements that suggest Miss C was in financial difficulty at the 
time. So I can't say that NewDay acted unfairly by accepting her credit card 
application with the credit limit of £600. 
First credit limit increase
Date Limit
1st Marbles increase November 2016 £1,500
I've looked at the affordability data provided by NewDay. This data shows how Miss 
C was conducting her account and what information CRA's were reporting at the 
time. I can see that between February and November 2016 Miss C was mostly only 
utilising approximately 50% of her credit. She made two payments late in this period 
but there were no significant increases in additional credit reported by the CRA's. It 
doesn't appear the checks NewDay did uncovered any sign that Miss C was 
struggling financially. And again I've looked at the bank statements Miss C provided 
for months prior to the credit limit increase and I can't see anything that suggests 
Miss C was in financial difficulty up to November 2016. So I can't say that NewDay 
acted unfairly by increasing her credit limit at this time. 
Second credit limit increase 
Date Limit
2nd Marbles increase April 2018 £2,500 
NewDay responded to our investigator's view with some further comments. It said 
Miss Cs credit limit was increased twice  in November 2016 and March 2018. It 
said there was only one late fee in the nine-month period between the card opening 
and her first credit increase  and no other adverse data. When she received this 
increase of £900, NewDay said Miss C did not use all the available credit. It said she 
made one retail spend of £262.93 in the following month and there is no further card 
use for some time. NewDay went on to say that in the 17 months between the first 
increase in November 2016 and the second credit limit increase in March 2018, there 
were two instances of cash spend (£90 and £30), no late fees and no over-limit fees. 
It said Miss C's card use remained relatively modest and that she made regular 
repayments including one high-value repayment of £516.96 in January 2017. 
NewDay concluded that in the period relevant to the complaint, Miss C did not make 
use of the available credit  the percentage of available credit used between the card 
opening and the second increase is 21%. It said her card was well-managed and 
NewDay was satisfied that the credit increases were offered and provided 
responsibly. 
As I mentioned above checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent. I've 
looked at the data showing how Miss C used her account. And I agree with NewDay 
that Miss C was managing her account and not utilising most of the credit she had. 
But I can see that Miss C was mostly only making minimum payments. Data provided 
to NewDay by the CRAs shows that between the first credit limit increase and the 
second, Miss C's level of revolving credit (for example credit cards) was sharply 
increasing. Miss Cs revolving credit balance went from approximately £1,700 in 
February 2017 to £5,300 in March 2018. In March 2018 Miss C also had an 
additional non-revolving credit balance (for example a loan) of £1,600, so her total 
credit balance was approximately £7,000. And at this point Miss C had a revolving 
credit limit of over £11,000. So while I accept that Miss C was managing her Marbles 
credit card account adequately by making minimum payments I can see that in the 
months leading up to the second credit limit increase Miss C was relying on 
borrowing which had increased significantly since the first Marbles credit limit 
increase and was only continuing to rise. While this credit balance of £7,000 doesn't 
necessarily mean that it was irresponsible of NewDay to increase her Marbles credit 
limit up to £2,500, I am persuaded that her significant increase in borrowing since 
November 2016 was enough to warrant additional affordability checks prior to this 
Marbles credit limit increase. 
I can't say what those checks might have been, but NewDay could have asked Miss C to verify her income and assess her income versus expenditure. This wouldve 
enabled NewDay to see if payments would be affordable, not only with her existing 
borrowing but in the event she utilised all the credit already available to her as well as 
that provided by NewDay increasing the Marbles credit limit to £2,500. 
Miss C provided bank statements to this service. 
Miss C's net income from employment over the time period of the credit limits 
appears to be approximately £1,000 per month rising to £1,400 by March 2018. She 
also had income in the form of child maintenance payments. Had NewDay verified 
her income it would have seen that it was relatively low and unlikely to support 
sustainable repayments on her increasing borrowing which by March 2018 was 
significant. I think had NewDay known this at the time, as I think it should have, it 
probably wouldn't have needed to consider Miss C's expenditure. It would've seen 
Miss C would have been unlikely to support sustainable repayments on her existing 
borrowing plus any increased repayments in the event she utilised all the revolving 
credit she already had available to her. And in that circumstance, it likely shouldn't 
have increased her credit limit further. 
I think NewDay would have known on verification of Miss C's income that it would be 
unlikely she would have been able to support sustainable repayments on her 
borrowing. But had it gone further and looked at her expenditure this would have 
been further evidence that she wouldn't be able to afford additional borrowing 
especially as Miss C wasn't utilising all of the credit available to her at that time. 
Looking at Miss Cs bank statements I can see that in the months leading up to 
November 2016 Miss C's bank account was always in credit. And her income 
appeared to cover her expenditure obligations. She had an overdraft arrangement of 
£1,000 which she was rarely utilising. In November 2017 Miss Cs arranged overdraft 
was now £2,120. And she was regularly utilising her overdraft up to £1,500. I can 
also see that some direct debit payments were failing to go through and payments to 
other finance providers were increasing. By March 2018 Miss Cs bank account 
balance was almost always negative, consistently utilising her overdraft up to £1,800. 
It appears to me that at this point Miss C was struggling financially. And I think had 
NewDay looked at this it would've seen Miss C's income wasn't sufficient to cover her 
expenses or lift her out of her overdraft. So I'm persuaded had NewDay verified her 
income, and also possibly carrying out further checks on her income versus 
expenditure, as I believe it should have, I think it unlikely it would have increased Ms 
C's credit limit further. 
Ive concluded that NewDay was irresponsible when it increased Miss Cs credit limit 
in April 2018 from £1,500 to £2,500. In order to put Miss C back into the position she 
would have been had this not happened means she shouldnt have to pay any 
interest or charges on credit granted over her existing limit of £1,500.
Our investigator recommended that all interest and charges that Miss C has paid 
since the limit increase in April 2018 should be refunded. But as I consider the first 
two lending decisions (the account opening with £600 limit and the limit increase to 
£1,500) by NewDay to be fair it follows that it wouldnt be fair for it to have to refund 
the interest and charges on the lending up to £1,500. 
Both NewDay and Miss C responded to my provisional decision but added no further 
comment.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from its 
conclusions.
Putting things right
In order to put things right NewDay, trading as Marbles Card must: 
Rework Miss Cs account to remove all interest and charges that have been applied 
to balances above £1,500; and 
oIf the effect of this reworking results in a credit balance, then this should be 
refunded to Miss C along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from 
the date they were made to the date of settlement. In this case, NewDay 
should remove any adverse information reported to Miss Cs credit file after 
April 2018;
oIf an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made NewDay needs to ensure that Miss C is only liable for this 
adjusted balance and arrange an affordable repayment plan with her. Once 
Miss C has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information 
recorded after April 2018 in relation to the account should be removed from 
her credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and NewDay, trading as Marbles Card, must 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman