DRN-3965644
The complaint
Miss R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Clydesdale) lent to 
her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss R applied for a credit card with Clydesdale in October 2020. The credit card was 
opened with a credit limit of £2,200 and the limit was never increased.
Miss R says that Clydesdale shouldnt have lent to her because she couldnt afford it. She 
says Clydesdale didnt do sufficient checks of her financial circumstances and if it had, it 
would have realised she couldnt sustainably meet the repayments on the card. 
Miss R asked that Clydesdale wipe her debt, repay everything Miss R had paid on the card 
and also to pay interest.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. They didnt think Clydesdale had done 
anything wrong when it made its lending decision. 
Miss R disagreed. She said she was on benefits at the time and didnt have enough 
disposable income to make the repayments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I dont think 
Clydesdale acted unfairly and lent to Miss R irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Clydesdale needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount, Miss Rs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Miss R said that at the time of applying for the card she had over £20,000 in debt and was 
reliant on benefits. 
Clydesdale says it completed checks when opening Miss Rs account. It indicates these 
showed that it was reasonable to lend to Miss R in the way that it did. Miss R declared a 
gross annual income of £28,000 which was validated by Clydesdale using other date. 
Clydesdales checks noted Miss R had total unsecured debt of around £20,600. The 
repayments on this were around £500 a month.
I think that given the level of Miss Rs outstanding credit that these checks werent sufficient. 
I think Clydesdale ought to have made further checks on Miss Rs income and expenditure. 
This doesnt necessarily mean the lending was unfair  just that Clydesdale should have 
done more. 
I dont know for sure what Clydesdale would have seen if it had made further checks, 
because the checks a business has to complete are not prescriptive. In the absence of 
information about this, I think it is reasonable to rely on bank statements Miss R has 
provided to help show what her financial circumstances were at the time.
I can see from these statements that Miss Rs account was always in credit in the months 
leading up to the lending. Miss Rs income averaged about £1,040 a month during the period 
 so, lower than that declared.  Miss Rs committed expenditure, including repayments to her 
existing credit, came to an average of around £730. This left Miss R with around £300 in 
disposable income each month.
Miss R says that, as a single parent, this was not sufficient to allow her to make repayments 
on the credit card. But even if Miss R had utilised the entire credit facility I think sustainable 
repayments which allowed her to repay the debt in a reasonable length of time would have 
been in the region of £110 a month. So I think if Clydesdale had done similar checks it likely 
would have decided Miss R could afford the repayments.
On balance, on the information I have, I dont think Clydesdale did anything wrong when it 
lent to Miss R. This means I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint so it follows that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money does not need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman