DRN-1957815
The complaint
Mrs J says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mrs J between June 2016 
and September 2018. Mrs Js borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidAmount Max 
Repayment
1 14/06/2016 30/11/2016 £900 £271.57
2 30/11/2016 28/03/2017 £1,400 £212.46
3 07/04/2017 30/03/2018 £1,000 £150.47
4 13/09/2018 Outstanding £1,500 £117.39
At the time of writing this final decisions, loan 4 has an outstanding balance. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Js complaint and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given because the pattern of Mrs Js borrowing indicated she was reliant on these types of 
loans. MYJAR disagreed and explained why it believed it had done proportionate checks to 
ensure Mrs J could afford the loans.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mrs J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Js complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint about loans 1 to 3. Mrs J hasnt provided any 
further evidence or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any further findings 
on these loans because they no longer appear to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Mrs J, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mrs Js case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point was 
reached by loan 4. I say this because:
At this point MYJAR ought to have realised Mrs J was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs J had taken out four loans over two years. So, it should have 
realised it was more likely than not Mrs J was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Mrs Js 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs Js first loan was for £900 and loan 4 was for £1,500. At this point MYJAR ought 
to have known it was unlikely that Mrs J was borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in her income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Mrs J wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed MYJAR. As mentioned 
above, loan 4 was taken out two years and three months after Mrs Js first. Mrs J had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect; service a debt to MYJAR over an 
extended period.
I think that Mrs J lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing at loan 4 because:
This loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Js indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
The length of time over which Mrs J borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Js ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mrs Js complaint about loan 4. 
Putting things right
If MYJAR has sold the outstanding debt MYJAR should buy it back if MYJAR is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If MYJAR cant buy the debt back, then MYJAR should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) MYJAR should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 4, and 
treat any repayments made by Mrs J as though they had been repayments of the principal 
on loan 4. If this results in Mrs J having made overpayments then MYJAR should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs J. MYJAR shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal MYJAR has already written-off.
C) The overall pattern of Mrs Js borrowing at loan 4 means any information recorded about 
this loan is adverse, so MYJAR should remove this loan entirely from Mrs Js credit file. 
MYJAR doesnt not have to remove the loan until it has been repaid, but MYJAR should still 
remove any adverse information recorded about this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR Limited must 
give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. MYJAR Limited should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman