DRN-4161233
The complaint
Miss C complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) decision to
decline her motor insurance claim.
Advantage are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. As Advantage have accepted they
are accountable for the actions of their agents, in my decision, any reference to Advantage
should be interpreted as also covering the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
Miss C and Advantage are familiar with the background to this complaint. Rather than repeat 
what is known to both parties, in my decision Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for 
reaching the outcome that I have.
Miss C had a motor insurance policy with Advantage. On 17 January 2023, Miss C 
contacted Advantage to make a claim on her policy following her discovery of a malfunction 
light. Mis C agreed to drive the car to an appointed dealership. 
The next day Miss C was told there was water damage to the electrical components of the 
car. The main component would cost around £1,200 to replace. Miss C told Advantage that 
she believed the damage possibly may have occurred after shed been removing snow from 
her car and she may have accidently damaged a seal around the edge of the window. This 
allowed melting snow/ice to make its way into the car.
On 19 January Miss C tried to contact Advantage on a number of occasions. Eventually she 
was told that the damage might be covered, with the exception of the window seal. Miss C 
was told shed be contacted to arrange which garage would carry out the repairs. Shortly 
afterwards, Miss C was contacted and told that the repairs were underway at a garage.
Miss C was then contacted by the approved repairers and asked to book in her car for 
repairs. This confused Miss C as shed been led to believe the repairs were already 
underway.
On 25 January the initial dealership contacted Miss C and let her know that the approved 
repairers couldnt carry out the repair as theyd not been informed her car was an electric 
vehicle. The car was then booked in with an alternative repairer on 27 January.
Miss C spoke to the initial dealership again on 2 February and was told her claim had been 
declined by Advantage. She was told advantage would be in touch with her, but after a few
days passed without contact, she rang Advantage on 7 February and was told the claim had 
been declined. Miss C then raised a complaint with Advantage about the declined claim, the 
service theyd provided and the overall impact on her. 
Advantage didnt uphold the complaint and Miss C then referred it to our Service for an 
independent review. Our Investigator considered the complaint and recommended that it be 
upheld. She felt that Advantage should reconsider the claim and pay Miss C £150 
compensation for how theyd handled things. As Advantage didnt accept the 
recommendations, the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
I recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings. As the deadline for 
responses has now passed, Ive considered the complaint for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. I wont comment on every 
point raised, but I have carefully considered all of the evidence.
Only Advantage replied to my provisional decision. As no new evidence has been provided 
that materially affects the outcome I intended to reach, I see no fair or reasonable reason to 
deviate from my intended findings. Ive included them below. 
My decision wont be considering the impact of this claim on Miss Cs insurance premiums. 
Should Miss C be unhappy about this aspect she first needs to raise it with Advantage. But I 
can tell her that generally, a claim registered against an insurance policy can impact 
premiums charged at renewal or when taking out a new policy. In addition, motor insurance 
premiums have increased across the UK this year. https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-
66466626 and https://www.abi.org.uk/news/news-articles/2023/8/sustained-cost-pressures-
on-insurers-push-the-average-price-of-motor-insurance-to-a-record-high/ 
The service provided
Its clear that there have been avoidable failings in terms of how Advantage have handled 
this claim. Although Advantage are the experts in this business relationship, there were 
numerous communication issues and it looks like Miss C was having to be the pro-active 
party chasing up this claim. For example; there were communication issues with Miss C not 
being appropriately updated and Miss C finding out through Advantages agents that the 
claim was declined.
I also think that Advantage let Miss C down and caused avoidable loss of expectation by 
initially telling her the damage would be covered and then declining the claim. Of course 
Advantage are entitled to fully consider the circumstances of any claim, but their 
communication that the damage was covered without a proper inspection was premature in 
the specific circumstances of this claim.
I note that Miss C has let us know that Advantage have emailed her to say they sent a 
templated email in error in August 2023. Whilst this is disappointing to see, Im satisfied that 
Miss C knew the claim had been declined and this is simply more evidence of poor 
communication from Advantage.
Did Advantage fairly and reasonably consider the claim before declining it?
As highlighted above, Advantage initially agreed that this claim was covered. They ultimately 
declined it for wear and tear as they felt the seal deteriorated over time because of the age 
of the car and the local weather conditions - rather than it being accidently damaged 
following Miss C scraping snow/ice from the car.I note that at the point of the declined claim and the final response letter, Advantage didnt 
have the report from the repairer. They left the door open for Miss C to provide supporting 
evidence from her own repairers if she disputed the findings of Advantages repairers. This 
was a fair and reasonable action.
Miss C eventually provided a report to our Service on 24 May 2023. Although our 
investigator felt this meant Advantage hadnt fairly/fully investigated the claim, Ive taken a 
different view.
Ive considered the supporting report from Miss C and in my opinion it doesnt strengthen her 
argument that the proximate cause of the loss here was the scraping of snow/ice from her 
car. A separate email (16 May 2023) referring to the technician whod worked on the car 
stated:
It was not a failure of a seal that caused the concern it was a crack in the 
sealer/bonding that caused the water ingress.
This again supports that the loss event wasnt a one off accidental damage incident, but the 
underlying cause being the condition of the seal due to general wear and tear. Advantage 
told our Service after we shared the 24 May report:
the new evidence doesnt change anything. We are in the same position as we were 
with our engineers original decision which I must highlight is a professional and 
qualified decision  therefore its not correct to say weve made the decision 
prematurely or incorrectly and therefore we maintain this should be resolved with no 
change in outcome.
I agree with the sentiment of this response.
Ive then considered if Miss C has unfairly lost out by Advantage not having the report when 
they made their decision to decline the claim. Ive concluded, on balance, she hasnt  as 
their decision wouldve likely remained the same.
Normally our Service will consider events that have happened up until the point of the final  
response letter (16 February 2023) and referral to us. But in the specifics of this complaint I 
dont see any advantage for either party of going back around the claim process again as 
Miss C has provided the report and Advantage have now considered it. This is different to 
the premiums point Ive explained Im not considering as this new evidence/report issue 
stems from the original complaint and isnt a brand new issue raised after the final response 
letter.
Advantage will note that Im in agreement with their statement above that the ultimate claim 
decline was fair and reasonable. But my earlier finding still stands that their initial decision 
that the claim was covered was communicated prematurely to Miss C. The compensation 
recommended by our Investigator (£150) is broadly fair, reasonable and appropriate for this 
failing and other service issues shes experienced across a number of weeks.
I dont make any award in relation to the other costs Miss C has said shes incurred  such 
as phone costs or alternative transport costs. Ive also considered what she said about 
supply chain issues when she went to have the repair done. It may well have been the case 
that the part needed was available sooner when she first reported the claim, but these were 
worldwide supply restrictions across many industries as a by-product of COVID-19 
lockdowns and other worldwide issues and are beyond the responsibility of Advantage.Putting things right
Advantage Insurance Company Limited need to pay Miss C £150 compensation to 
recognise the impact of their actions when handing this claim on her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited now need to follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman