DRN-3684073
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Starling Bank Limited handled a fraud case he raised.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the complaint, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In late 2021, Mr S made a fraud report to Starling for £15 worth of payments.
Starling initially declined to give Mr S a refund. They also didnt log a complaint when Mr S 
expressed his dissatisfaction. Mr S continued to pursue the matter.
A little under two months later, Starling provided a final response to the complaint and 
agreed to refund the £15 worth of payments in full.
Mr S came to our service. He was particularly unhappy with Starlings complaint handling.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
asked for an ombudsman to review things afresh, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As an impartial service, we wont necessarily address either sides arguments on a point-by-
point basis. Instead, Ive focused on what I have found to be the key points of the case.
First, I understand that the incident which led to Mr Ss fraud report was most upsetting, and 
Im sorry to hear about what happened to him.
I should explain that my role here is to resolve complaints involving financial issues  the 
focus being the underlying issue that led to the complaint. Were not really here to deal with 
complaints about complaints.
Here, the issue that led to the complaint was the matter of the £15 worth of payments. But 
I can see that has already been resolved  Mr S received a full refund.
Of course, I appreciate that Starling did not give this refund to Mr S at first, and that Mr S 
had to pursue the matter. And so I appreciate his point of view. But the time between his 
fraud report and the refund is not what Id consider to be excessive, and in that time I cant 
see that any significant financial impact was caused to Mr Ss account. The disputed amount 
was really quite small. And having listened to the calls involved, I find that Starlings staff 
handled the calls well, not least given some of the abuse they faced. Using financial services 
wont always be completely hassle-free, and its worth keeping in mind that were not here to 
punish businesses. Were also not the regulator and do not issue fines.
Taking everything into account, I do not make any further award regarding the matter of the 
£15 worth of payments. I consider that matter to have been adequately resolved.
I do understand that Mr S is particularly unhappy with the way Starling handled his complaint 
 for example, not logging a complaint earlier, and not responding to all of his points. But 
those issues fall outside of our jurisdiction.
I mentioned earlier that were not really here to deal with complaints about complaints. To 
elaborate, were only allowed to consider cases about certain activities  such as processing 
payments and dealing with disputed transactions. But handling complaints is not an activity 
that we can cover in and of itself. So I dont have the power to consider the complaint-
handling issues that Mr S raised  theyre not in our remit.
I appreciate that that will not be the decision Mr S was hoping for, not least as I can see that 
our investigator tried to be helpful and address his points about complaint handling anyway. 
But the fact remains that those points are outside of our jurisdiction, and so I am unable to 
make any findings there.
My main concern is that the underlying financial issue at hand is resolved  here being the 
£15 worth of payments  and here it was resolved.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman