DRN-4355673
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the performance of three of his pension plans with ReAssure 
Limited as he considers they should have achieved similar levels of growth to his main plan. 
What happened
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She sent her assessment of 
the complaint to both parties in August 2023. The background and circumstances to the 
complaint were set out in her assessment. However, in summary, Mr C had four separate 
pension plans with ReAssure. Three of the plans had not achieved the same level of growth 
as the main plan. 
The investigator set out the details of each different plan, and noted that they had been 
invested in different funds, presenting different levels of risks, and invested over different 
period of time. So she said it wouldnt be fair to assume that they would achieve the same 
levels of growth, as different funds behaved differently in the market. The investigator said 
she didnt think it was ReAssures fault that the three other plans hadnt achieved the same 
level of growth as the main plan. 
Mr C responded to the investigators assessment by saying that his complaint wasnt about 
the performance of his plans. It was, in summary, that the firm shouldnt have created and 
set up the additional pension plans rather than paying into the main plan. He said if there 
had only been one plan its value would have been significantly higher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C previously referred a complaint to us about the setting up of separate plans rather than 
having one plan. One of our investigators wrote to Mr C in November 2022 saying he didnt 
think we should consider that complaint and setting out the reasons why he thought it should 
be dismissed.
I appreciate that there is a fine line between the two complaints, and that Mr C has said his 
complaint here isnt about performance. However this complaint was specifically set up 
separately to consider performance. Accordingly, all I am considering in this final decision is 
that specific issue about performance. 
For the reasons explained by the investigator, Im not persuaded that this particular 
complaint should be upheld; the plans were invested in different funds, providing different 
levels of risk and invested over different periods of time. So its highly unlikely they will 
provide the same levels of return. 
I recognise that Mr C may well already be aware of that. And at heart the issue he is still 
concerned about is the separate setting up of the plans. But that complaint was considered 
separately, and isnt something Ive considered here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman