DRN-2477740
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the way BISL Limited (BISL) have dealt with his complaint about the 
purchase of an online motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N completed an online application for motor insurance arranged by BISL. He says he 
input all his details as requested including information about a previous no fault claim. He 
was, however, unable to input full details of the claim. He was quoted £258.40 for the policy 
with a one off annual payment. Mr N then rang BISL to make the payment.
A couple of days later, Mr N received an email from BISL asking him to contact them. He 
telephoned and was told that he was required to pay an additional sum of £68.36 as they 
had been made aware of a no fault claim that was not included in the original quote. 
 
Mr N was not happy about this and made a complaint. He said he had had problems logging 
into the online system previously, of which BISL were aware, and that it was not his fault that 
the system had not allowed him to enter full details of the claim. Mr N, however, offered to 
pay an additional £34 and BISL accepted this. Mr N also complained about the customer 
service he received on the telephone. 
BISL say that the online quote had not included any previous claims or notifications. When 
they were subsequently notified of a no fault claim they immediately contacted Mr N for the 
additional payment. They offered to waive the cancellation fee if Mr N wished to cancel the 
policy, but at Mr Ns suggestion agreed to accept an additional payment of £34 for the policy 
to continue. Mr N was also offered £20 compensation for poor customer service.
Mr N did not believe this fully addressed his complaint and brought the matter to us. He does 
not complain about the level of compensation for the poor telephone service, but he is 
unhappy that he was asked to make an additional payment after he had made what he 
thought was full payment for the policy.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He thought that BISL had acted fairly and 
offered an appropriate level of compensation for the service complaint. He thought there was 
some responsibility on Mr N to check the policy documents provided to him and thought that 
it was fair for BISL to have agreed to accept the reduced premium. BISL then offered a 
further apology to Mr N confirming that he was a valued customer and apologising again for 
the poor customer service.
Mr N was not happy with this and the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer makes an application for insurance, the insurer relies on the information 
that it is given to provide a quote. This determines whether they will offer insurance and the 
amount of the premium charged. 
I can see that Mr N was frustrated by the online policy application process. He believed that 
he had declared the previous no fault claim and was simply unable to enter the full details. 
However, I have seen a screen shot of the online application and the no fault claim was not 
recorded at all. It is not clear why or how this happened but there is no suggestion by BISL 
that Mr N intentionally withheld this information. The insurance premium offered was, 
therefore, provided without the benefit of this information.
Mr N was provided with the full policy documents via the Self Service Centre and in the post 
and was asked to review them to ensure the information recorded was accurate. It is not 
clear whether Mr N did review the documents, but they did not include any record of the no 
fault claim.
Mr N says that once he made full payment he had an agreement about the provision of his 
insurance and that he should not subsequently be asked to pay an additional premium. 
However, the quote was offered without the insurer having knowledge of the no fault claim 
and I do not think it unreasonable for BISL to go back to Mr N to request the additional 
premium. The sale of an insurance policy, and the premium charged, is dependent on the 
provision of personal information. Mr N has provided an analogy and whilst I have 
considered this, it hasnt made me think it was unreasonable for BISL to ask for the extra 
payment. 
It is quite usual for insurers to make checks to see if customers have made previous claims, 
fault or otherwise, as these will affect the premium charged. When BISL were made aware of 
the no fault claim they quite rightly informed Mr N of the additional premium payable. They 
also quite fairly in my view offered him the opportunity of cancelling the policy without the 
usual cancellation fees. When Mr N expressed his dissatisfaction, they agreed to accept the 
reduced premium. Again, I think this was fair. 
When considering complaints brought to this service, we dont just look to see whether a 
business has made a mistake but also whether the customer has lost out. In this case, I 
dont think that BISL has made a mistake and I also dont think that Mr N has lost out. If BISL 
had been aware of the no fault claim at the outset, the initial premium charged would have 
been higher. I accept that this might have meant that Mr N would have looked elsewhere for 
his insurance, but he was given the opportunity to do this and declined. He has also paid 
£34.36 less for his policy than if the online system had originally included his no fault claim.
I have considered all the issues very carefully, and whilst I know that Mr N will be 
disappointed, I cannot see that BISL have acted unfairly. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ns claim and do not require BISL Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman