DRN-2054021
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Covea Insurance Plc Limited handled and settled a claim he 
made under his home insurance policy for storm damage to his carport. Hes also unhappy 
with the way in which his claim was assessed.
What happened
Mr B holds a policy of home insurance, which is provided by Covea. This policy was 
incepted in May 2019 and a copy of the policy terms and schedule were made available to 
Mr B at around that time.
On 7 January 2020 Mr B said there were high winds within his locality. That day he said the 
carport that was attached to his house collapsed and came away from the side of his 
property above the main door. This carport was particularly important to Mr Bs elderly 
parents, who lived in the property, because it provided them with shelter when entering and 
leaving the house.
Mr B said after the carport collapsed it was dangerously suspended across the front door in 
a precarious position. In view of this, Mr B said immediate action had to be taken to manually 
dismantle the carport. Thereafter, he discarded the structure and obtained two quotations 
from specialist canopy installers to show the replacement cost. 
On 21 January 2020 Mr B contacted Covea in order to make a claim under his policy. He 
provided it with photographs hed taken of the damage, which also showed when the carport 
structure when it was being taken down. 
As the structure had been dismantled and disposed of by the time Mr B reported what had 
happened to Covea it wasnt able to attend his property in order to undertake an inspection. 
It therefore asked its technical claims manager, who was a chartered civil engineer, to 
assess the cause of damage using the images Mr B had provided.
Covea accepted there was a storm on the date the carport collapsed. But, after reviewing 
the images Mr B had provided, it informed him that its technical claims manager thought the 
carport had collapsed because it hadnt been properly secured to the wall. And it repudiated 
his claim as it stated faulty workmanship was excluded under the terms of his insurance 
policy.
But Mr B disagreed with Coveas assessment of his claim. He felt it hadnt properly 
considered the circumstances of what had happened and he didnt feel it was possible for 
Covea to determine the carport had failed due to poor workmanship based on photographs 
alone. He also stated the carport had been already attached to his property when it was 
purchased and said Covea had never inspected the structure during the time hed been 
insuring his home. So, he complained that its decision to decline his claim was unfair.
Covea investigated Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. It maintained its decision to decline 
his claim as it didnt think the main cause of the damage to the carport had been a one-off 
storm event.  
Being dissatisfied with Coveas response to his complaint, Mr B referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. While they were satisfied there was a 
storm at around the time the damage had occurred they didnt think this had been the sole 
reason the carport had collapsed. They agreed with Coveas opinion on the cause of 
damage and didnt think it had acted unfairly in declining to cover Mr Bs claim. They 
therefore didnt recommend upholding his complaint. But Mr B disagreed and asked an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some detailed 
submissions. Its clear he feels very strongly that his claim should be met. I want to assure 
him that Ive read everything hes sent us. I hope hell understand if I dont address every 
comment hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the 
complaint  namely whether Covea acted reasonably in declining this claim. And Ill explain 
why I think it has.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr Bs carport. However, theres a 
disagreement between the parties about the cause of the damage and correct outcome of 
this claim.  
Mr B has complained about how Covea assessed his claim. He feels it wasnt possible to 
determine the cause of the carports collapse from only reviewing photographs. But I think it 
was reasonable for Covea to assess Mr Bs claim using the photographs hed taken. Ill 
explain why.
Because Mr B had already dismantled the carport structure and discarded it by the time he 
reported his claim, Covea had no other way of determining the cause of damage. Based on 
the actions of Mr B Covea lost the opportunity of appointing a building surveyor to assist it in 
inspecting the damage caused. So, its only option was to validate Mr Bs claim by relying on 
the photographs hed provided. I can see Covea asked a technical claims manager with 
expertise in engineering to assess the cause of damage, which I think was reasonable in the 
overall circumstances.     
Mr Bs insurance policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might 
happen. These are specific one-off events that are listed within an insurance policy and they 
cover damage caused, for example, by storm etc. Where a policyholder makes a claim, its 
their responsibility to prove the damage was caused by an insured event. So here, for a 
claim to be accepted under the storm peril, Mr B would have to show that any damage was 
the direct result of a single weather event. 
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr Bs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind. 
All three questions need to be answered affirmatively for this service to be able to 
recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr Bs policy doesnt define the word storm. 
This isnt unusual. And in that scenario this service takes the view that a storm generally 
involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. When looking a wind 
speed, we generally consider wind speeds of 47 mph or above to be consistent with a storm. 
Ive carefully reviewed weather records Mr Bs locality on 7 January 2020 and can see the 
wind speed recorded on that date peaked at 57 mph. Like our investigator and Covea, Im 
satisfied a storm was present on the date the carport was damaged. And this means Im able 
to answer question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. In this case Im satisfied that damage to a carport is 
something that could be expected following a storm. So, Im able to answer this question 
affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the third question I must address. Coveas opinion is that storm conditions 
werent the main cause of the damage. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint 
Covea thought the damage to Mr Bs carport was caused by a poor workmanship.
Covea informed Mr B it was concerned that the carport roof along the right hand side 
appear[ed] to have pulled away at the front from the gable wall of the building. This should 
have been the strongest part of the roof and yet the relatively weaker left hand supports 
fastened to the top of the single skin masonry wall remained intact. Essentially, it appears 
that the wall plate, this being the piece of timber fastened to the gable wall of the house has 
not been fastened properly to the wall. It would appear to have only been fastened at the 
front where it has pulled away and at the rear where the fastening remained.
Covea said a wall plate on a structure such as a carport should have been fastened in place 
using multiple expansion bolts in between each roof joist. But it couldnt see evidence of that 
from the photographs Mr B provided. In those circumstances I think it was reasonable for 
Covea to conclude the carport hadnt been adequately secured to Mr Bs property.
A correctly and securely installed carport should be weather resistant and unaffected by 
storm related weather  although its condition will deteriorate over time. Based on the 
photographic evidence Mr B provided our service and Covea, Im satisfied they support the 
comments made by Coveas technical claims manager. As Covea told our investigator, there 
was no damage to the carport roof it was only the fixings to the wall that gave way. I think 
this demonstrates that the damage was most likely due to inadequate fixing of the carport to 
the wall instead of a single one-off storm, which is what is covered by Mr Bs policy. 
I recognise that Mr Bs carport has been standing for many years prior to the date it 
sustained damage. Hes unhappy Covea didnt inspect it before his policy was incepted. But, 
as our investigators explained, our service wouldnt expect an insurer to validate the 
structure of a building or carport prior to a policyholder taking out an insurance policy.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, theres no compelling evidence that the 
damage to Mr Bs carport was caused by a one-off storm event. On balance, I think its most 
likely that the adverse weather that Mr B experienced on 7 January 2020 highlighted the 
defects in how the carport had been secured to his property. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen, Im satisfied the damage was caused by poor workmanship. 
Coveas policy booklet makes it clear that loss or damage arising from faulty design or 
workmanship or the use of faulty materials" is excluded under Mr Bs insurance policy. This is in common with most home insurance policies because insurance is intended to cover the 
unforeseen. And something that is damaged due to poor workmanship isnt unforeseen. 
As damage occurring due to poor workmanship isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of Mr Bs insurance policy I dont think Coveas decision to repudiate this claim was 
unreasonable. It follows that I dont think it would be fair to require it to pay this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman