DRN-3193936
The complaint
Mr K complains about the actions of Revolut Ltd when he was tricked into transferring 
money as a result of a scam.
 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. On 2 February 2021 Mr K was sadly the 
victim of a scam. He was tricked, by a beneficiary, into believing he was purchasing a guitar 
on social media for £1,150. The beneficiary then told Mr K the money hadnt been received. 
Mr K spoke to Revolut on 3 February 2021 but there was confusion on the online chat about 
whether the payment had been made to the beneficiary because Revolut incorrectly 
confirmed another unrelated previous transaction had been sent instead of the transaction 
Mr K had requested. But later, during the same conversation, Revolut confirmed the money 
had been sent to the beneficiary. 
Mr K contacted Revolut on 4 February 2021 to check the payment had been received by the 
beneficiary and he said to Revolut he was starting to think he had been scammed. Revolut 
confirmed the payment was made but Mr K didnt contact Revolut again until the next day to 
report the scam. 
Revolut tried to recover Mr Ks money from the receiving bank but it wasnt able to do so. So, 
Mr K raised a complaint which Revolut didnt uphold. Mr K then brought his complaint to this 
service. He said Revolut shouldve helped him confirm he had been scammed when he first 
contacted it on 3 February 2021. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld for the full amount Mr K lost to 
the scam. She said Revolut confirmed the money had been sent to the scammer on 
3 February 2021. And that she didnt think Mr K was likely aware he was being scammed 
when he first contacted Revolut because he raised concerns about the payment the next 
day, but Mr K didnt report the scam during this conversation. The investigator said Revolut 
had delayed the reporting of the scam to the receiving bank, but that only £18 of Mr Ks 
money could be returned. 
Mr K disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he suspected he had been 
scammed on 3 February 2021 and spoke to Revolut through its online chat. He said if 
Revolut had correctly told him he had sent the money to the scammer then he wouldve 
known it was a scam and his money couldve been retrieved from the receiving bank much 
sooner. So, he wasnt happy with the £18 that Revolut had offered to refund.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr K has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
It is common ground that Mr K authorised the scam payments totalling £1,150. I accept that 
these were authorised payments even though Mr K was the victim of a scam. He provided 
valid instructions through his online account. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay 
money to the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the 
terms of his account, Mr K is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Revolut to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Revoluts first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr K provides. But if those
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect Revolut to 
intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. Id also expect Revolut to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their 
customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There 
might also be cases where its appropriate for Revolut to refuse to follow the instruction if 
there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instruction by Mr K (to transfer £1,150 to the 
scammer) given to Revolut was unusual in relation to his typical account activity. Ive 
reviewed the account statements for the eleven months prior to the scam payment being 
made. I think this gives a sufficient sample size to fairly assess the activity. The account 
typically was used for sporadic transactions with the balance moving from 0 to £1,750 
depending on when Mr K used his account. There were also payments ranging from £400 to 
£1,900, As a result, Im not satisfied Mr Ks payment ought to have stood out to Revolut as 
unusual or suspicious because he commonly made similar payments. So, I dont think there 
was any reason for Revolut to have intervened and to have asked questions of Mr K. 
I understand Mr K was unhappy with the amount of time it took Revolut to report the scam to 
the receiving bank. He feels this shouldve been done when he first queried the payment on 
3 February 2021. But I dont agree. After considering copies of the online chats Mr K had 
with Revolut, I dont think Revolut shouldve done more to recover his money before the 
scam was officially reported to Revolut on 5 February 2021. I note Revoluts agent provided 
confirmation of the wrong payment on 3 February 2021 but when the correct payment was 
confirmed Mr K was happy the payment had been sent to the scammer and the chat ended.
Mr K then spoke to Revolut the next day. I accept he mentioned the possibility of being 
scammed here but I dont think it was up to Revolut to decide this for him. I say this because 
Mr K only wanted to confirm the payment had been sent and received at this point. Revolut 
confirmed the payment had been sent and told Mr K to see if the payment had been 
received and to come back if he needed more help. Mr K did so and returned the next day 
when he confirmed he had been scammed.  And Im satisfied its at this point Revolut 
shouldve raised the scam with the receiving bank. Unfortunately, Revolut didnt do so. It 
didnt raise the issue with the receiving bank until 9 February 2021. Because of this, Ive 
gone on to consider whether the delay made any difference. 
Here, Ive seen the receiving bank has said the £1,150 couldnt be refunded to Mr K on 
5 February 2021 because there was only £18 left. So, even if Revolut had contacted the 
receiving bank as soon as Mr K had told it about the scam, he wouldnt have received all his 
money back. Putting things right
Revolut has now agreed to refund the £18 that wouldve remained if it has raised the scam 
earlier. I understand Mr K is unhappy with this amount but, for the reasons Ive outlined 
above, I cant say that hes been treated unfairly by Revolut here.  
So, Im not going to ask Revolut to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Revolut Ltd must refund £18 to Mr K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman