DRN-2039842
The complaint
Mr W complains that Motability Operations Limited (Motability) didnt properly respond to his 
subject access request (SAR).
 
What happened
In 2018 Motability added two notes to Mr Ws electronic profile. Following an early 
termination of Mr Ws contract, a note was added to Mr Ws profile on 5 February 2018 it 
stated 12 month sanction from 05/02/2018.
A further note was added on 9 October 2018 and read as follows:
If customer calls. please advise. The matter is currently being dealt with. You 
will receive a response in due course. We are not in a position to discuss this further, 
therefore this call is being terminated. Legal -9/10/18
On 5 February 2019 Mr W called Motability and because of the note attached to his profile 
he was told that the adviser couldnt speak to him and the call was terminated. Mr W emailed 
to complain and left a voicemail on 6 February 2019. On 6 February 2019 Motability 
removed the note of 9 October 2018. Motability emailed Mr W to explain what had happened 
and the email contained a summary of the note. The business apologised and offered Mr W 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the error.
Mr W made a SAR and asked to see the notes. Motability didnt give Mr W a copy of the 
note of 9 October 2018 as it said it had been deleted. Mr W asked the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) to look at the handling of his SAR. The ICO thought that 
Motability hadnt properly responded to Mr Ws request and directed that the note was 
disclosed. Motability sent Mr W a copy of the note on 28 January 2020.
Mr W complained to this service and requested compensation for the handling of his SAR 
request. Our Investigator looked at matters and thought that Mr W had been inconvenienced 
by the poor handling of his request and he had been caused trouble and upset by having to 
refer his complaint to the ICO. She thought Motability should pay Mr W £50 to reflect this 
upset.
Motability agreed to pay £50 although it didnt accept the investigators conclusions. Mr W 
didnt think that £50 was enough and wanted £100 which Motability didnt agree to pay. So, 
as the matter hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me to review and make a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed everything again and having done so I agree with the conclusions of the 
investigator for much the same reasons.
I think that the £200 offered by Motability following Mr Ws original complaint was in 
recognition of the error that the note had remained on his profile and it had led to the adviser 
wrongly terminating the call with him.
Mr W then made a SAR request for disclosure of the note that wasnt provided. I have taken 
account of the fact that a summary of the note was provided to Mr W and he had an idea of 
the contents, but the fact remains that the text of the note was not provided to him as a result 
of his subject access request. The ICO has found that the business should have provided 
the note and the fact that it had been deleted from the profile was not an acceptable reason 
for not providing the note.  So, I think in these circumstances Motability did make an error 
and Mr W had to go to the time of pursuing a complaint to the ICO.
Mr W was aware of the existence of the note together with the effect of it and the fact that it 
had been removed shortly after he complained. For these reasons I dont think that the 
failure to provide the exact text of the note caused Mr W significant distress during the period 
of his complaint to the ICO. But I do think that the trouble and upset caused by having to 
make such a complaint at all should be compensated.
Putting things right
The awards we make are relatively modest and they are not designed to punish businesses. 
In these circumstances I agree with the investigator that the amount of £50 is fair and 
reasonable in relation to this aspect of the complaint. I know that Mr W thinks it is worth 
more but, in these circumstances, I think that £50 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Motability 
Operations Limited should pay Mr W £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman