DRN-2074665
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the settlement offered by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance
Plc (RSA) following a claim under their contents insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Fs home was struck by lightning and this caused damage to some contents
items, so a claim was made to RSA.
The claim was accepted and RSA initially offered vouchers for a replacement TV, and a
cash settlement for a games console as this was no longer available via its suppliers.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with the TV, because it was a different brand to the original, and
they thought the specification wasnt comparable. They were also unhappy with the cash
settlement for the games console because they couldnt replace this in a store.
RSA subsequently made a further increased offer. This was for settlement based on a LED
LCD TV the same brand as the original, and the current version of the games console. But
Mr and Mrs F rejected this offer. They said they should be offered an OLED TV which had a
particular certification. They also said that because the games console was top of the range
when purchased in 2007, they should receive the current and top of the range version.
RSA issued its final response maintaining the total offer of £598 vouchers, or £512.91 cash
settlement (both net of the excess payment). They said the items that the settlement was
based on were a reasonable match for those damaged. RSA also said that if Mr and Mrs F
wanted the claim settled, but also wanted their old games console returned, then they would
need to pay the salvage cost. And later said if Mr and Mrs F did not want to proceed with the
claim for this item, then RSA would return the damaged console.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with this and approached the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He said the settlement
being offered by RSA was fair, and in line with the terms of the policy. He also said that it
wasnt unreasonable for RSA to say Mr and Mrs F had to pay for salvage, if they wanted to
both claim for the games console and also wanted it returned.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an
ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision because whilst our investigator said the offer made by RSA 
was fair, two settlement offers have been proposed. So I wanted to comment on both offers 
before I make my final decision. This allowed both parties to comment on my thinking, before 
I make my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services last word on the 
case. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the settlement being offered and Ill consider the two 
items in dispute separately below. But first Ill consider what the policy terms say 
should happen in the event of a claim.
The policy
Mr and Mrs F say that the policy documents say a like-for-like and new-for old 
replacement will be provided. And they say this means a top of the range item should 
be replaced with a new and latest top of the range item.
Ive looked at the Quick guide to the insurance policy document, and this says:
New for Old
Well replace your contents with new equivalent items.
And also says:
Like for Like
If we cant replace the exact item, well find you a replacement that matches the 
same quality and specification. For example, if our preferred supplier doesnt stock a 
certain brand of computer, well replace it with one that may be a different brand.
But this isnt in the actual policy terms. These say:
How we settle claims for Contents, Personal Possessions, Student, Pedal Cycles 
and Garden Options
Where the damage can be economically repaired, we will pay the cost of the repair.
Where the damage cannot be economically repaired and the damaged item can be
replaced, we will replace it. If a replacement is not available we will replace it with an 
item of similar quality.
Where we are unable economically to repair or replace an item with an item of similar
quality, we will agree a cash payment with you based on the replacement value.
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but instead 
you request and we agree to pay a cash settlement, then the amount will not 
normally exceed what we would have paid our preferred supplier.
However, whilst the mention of new-for-old and like-for-like may only be in the Quick 
guide, and not in the policy terms, I dont think this makes a difference here. I dont 
think the mention of new for old or like for like implies that an old top of the range 
item would be replaced with the latest top of the range item. It says new-for-old, 
which in my view means an old item will be replaced with a new, rather than second 
hand item. And like-for-like also in my view means an equivalent. But that doesnt 
necessarily mean exact, as that wont always be possible, as is the case here.
The quick guide also does say that for full information about the policy, the policy 
documents should be referred to. And within these, it says what will happen when the exact item cannot be replaced  as outlined above, settlement would be based on a 
similar quality item.
So I need to consider if that is what RSA has offered, settlement in line with the how 
we settle claims section of the terms and conditions. And as both items are no longer 
available, whether the settlement has been based on a similar item(s).
The replacement TV 
I understand that the TV that was damaged was a Plasma screen model purchased 
in 2011. This is no longer available, so RSA offered (which was increased from the 
original offer) a voucher for £599 (after excess deduction from the overall claim) to 
cover both settlement for the games console  which Ill talk about below  and TV 
based on an LCD LED backlit model, the same as the original brand.
Where an exact replacement is no longer available, Id expect an insurer to base the
settlement offer on an item which is a similar quality replacement. And this is what 
the policy terms, as mentioned above, say they will do. But that doesnt mean an 
exact match for every feature or specification. In this case, Mr and Mrs Fs TV was 
purchased in 2011, and technology has both advanced considerably, and become 
cheaper to obtain higher specifications generally in the last nine years.
The replacement TV the settlement is being based on is Ultra HD 4K ready, whereas 
the original TV was HD, so it is an upgrade here. It has a number of other features 
which are either the same, or an upgrade to those which were on the older model 
Mr and Mrs F owned. I wont go through each function, as Im satisfied that the 
general specification is a similar equivalent.
However, Mr and Mrs F say that it isnt a reasonable replacement as their old TV had 
a specific certification. And whilst I acknowledge this, where an exact match isnt 
available, RSA need to offer a similar replacement, and Im satisfied thats what they 
are doing here. Technology has moved on considerably since Mr and Mrs F 
purchased their TV in 2011, and Im satisfied overall the model settlement is based 
on is similar and also has a number of upgrades to the original.
So, Im not minded to ask RSA to increase this or offer the replacement Mr and Mrs F 
have asked for. RSA has offered vouchers (after excess deduction), or if 
Mr and Mrs F prefer, a slightly lower cash offer, based on the cost it would incur 
using its own supplier  which is again in line with the policy terms for cash 
settlements.
Games console
Mr and Mrs F had a games console, purchased in 2007, which is no longer available 
new. Initially RSA offered a cash settlement for this (after excess deduction from the 
total claim).
Mr and Mrs F rejected this offer.
As a result of this, RSA offered settlement based on the cost of the current version of 
the console, available to buy new. Mr and Mrs F have said this isnt equivalent and 
the settlement shouldnt be based on that console, but a further, higher specification model. This is because they say the new TV would be 4K, so the replacement 
console should be upgraded here too, and the regular version isnt 4K.
Whilst the new TV may well be 4K  and more common due to technological 
advancements - the console which was damaged didnt have this function.
Mr and Mrs F have more recently said that the regular model cant support games 
from the original console, and also doesnt have a digital output.
But I cant see that either the regular, or higher specification, version of the console 
can play the old consoles games. So I dont think this is a reason for RSA to 
increase the settlement offer. Im satisfied that the model the settlement is based on 
is a similar and reasonable match, albeit not exact  which is outside RSAs control 
as the original is no longer manufactured.
Our investigator said the settlement RSA proposed was fair. But Im issuing a 
provisional decision because whilst they said the offer was fair, two offers have 
been proposed by RSA. So, I wanted to be clear what I think is fair, and to comment 
on both offers that have been made by RSA, before I reach my final decision.
I accept that Mr and Mrs F wont be able to use the vouchers to be able to purchase 
a new original console in store, as its no longer made. In fact the damaged console 
was purchased in 2007.
But RSA has also offered cash settlement for this item too. By doing this, 
Mr and Mrs F would be able to replace the TV (as Ive mentioned  I think settlement 
for this item is fair) and also be able to purchase the original console elsewhere, 
perhaps on the second hand or refurbished market, if the exact features the 
damaged model had are most important to them.
Ive had a quick look online, and the cash settlement more than covers purchasing a 
preowned model the same as that damaged. And others with higher specs than the 
one damaged are also available. So if Mr and Mrs F were to use the cash settlement 
towards this, they could retain the difference left over. This would go some way 
towards compensating them for the original console being unavailable to buy new 
(which is outside RSAs control)  but would allow them to have the features they say 
would be of benefit, over the standard current version.
So I think that both the console the settlement is based on already, or alternatively 
the cash offered, are both reasonable settlement offers. So Im not minded to say this 
should be increased by RSA to be based on the higher specification model.
Returning the damaged console 
Mr and Mrs F are also unhappy that RSA has said that they need to pay salvage for 
the damaged console if they are proceeding with settlement of this item. 
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy they werent told this before sending it to RSA. And 
having looked at the information provided, I cant find any reference that they were 
told this.
However, even if RSA had told Mr and Mrs F that beforehand, I dont think it would 
have changed anything. Its not unreasonable for insurers to want to inspect an item 
to validate a claim, and in this case RSA believed it could be repaired. So its likely Mr and Mrs F would always have sent the item to RSA, even if theyd known about 
the salvage costs, because they had always intended to claim for it. The difference 
here is that they would have been aware from the outset, but as I said, I dont think 
that would have changed things.
RSA has said if Mr and Mrs F now dont want to include this item in the claim then 
they will return the damaged console, but if they do want to claim for a replacement, 
and still want the damaged item back, they need to pay the salvage value. I dont 
think RSAs position here is unreasonable, so Im not minded to say it should return 
the item free of charge.
On that basis I was minded to say both the vouchers or cash settlement were reasonable 
offers in the circumstances, and that RSA didnt need to return the damaged console free of 
charge.
The responses to my provisional decision
RSA responded to my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs F responded to my provisional decision but they didnt agree. They re-sent two 
emails sent to the previous investigator in response to his findings, and questioned whether 
Id seen these.
And Mr and Mrs F also summarised these, explaining why they dont think either option is 
fair settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, I havent changed my mind.
I can confirm that both previous emails Mr and Mrs F refer to were taken into account when I 
reached my provisional findings, and having considered them again, they still dont change 
my thoughts from the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs F have also again said why they dont think the replacement TV or games 
console are reasonable settlements. But as they are the same arguments presented 
previously, these were taken into account when reaching my provisional findings.
But to summarise, I appreciate both the TV and games console the settlement is based on 
arent exact replacements. But that isnt possible, as neither are made anymore due to age 
and technological advancements.
Mr and Mrs F say they dont consider that Ultra HD 4K is an upgrade as that is normal on 
modern TVs, so they view this as a standard feature rather than an upgrade. Whilst it may 
be commonplace on modern TVs, its still an upgrade to the 2011 TV being claimed for, 
because it didnt have this.
And whilst the TV the settlement is based on may not have the particular certification 
Mr and Mrs Fs previous TV had, Im satisfied that the settlement is based on a reasonable 
similar replacement, which is what the policy covers.The games console also might not have the exact same features as the console from 2007, 
but it is a newer version. But again Im satisfied the settlement is based on a reasonable 
similar replacement, again which is what the policy covers.
But as I said in my provisional decision, the cash settlement more than covers purchasing a 
pre-owned console the same model as the damaged one (and higher spec versions). So if 
the features of it are exactly what Mr and Mrs F want, rather than the standard latest model, 
then they could use the cash settlement towards this. The difference left over would go some 
way towards compensating Mr and Mrs F for it not being new  which is outside RSAs 
control as its no longer made. So, Im not going to say that RSA should offer the latest, top 
of the range, model.
I also dont think RSAs position surrounding returning the damaged console is unfair. 
Although it doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs F were told this beforehand, for the reasons 
outlined in my provisional decision, I dont think this would have changed things as 
Mr and Mrs F always intended to claim for it.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs F said to our investigator that they are asking this service to 
change the behaviour of RSA which acts against the interests of consumers. They felt RSA 
used pressure tactics to try and settle the claim.
But Ive listened to the call recording of the initial settlement offer and dont agree that RSA 
was using pressure tactics to settle the claim as Mr and Mrs F have said. Rather, they 
explained how the settlement had been calculated, based on the features, rather than price 
of the damaged items. And said they would pass it back to the validation team as 
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with the offer and were entitled to dispute it  as they have.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that Im 
not upholding the complaint as the offers already made by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc to settle Mr and Mrs Fs claim, and the position on returning the damaged console, is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
If Mr and Mrs F wish to accept either option to settle the claim already presented by Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc, they should let them know directly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman