DRN-3875476
The complaint
Miss H and Mrs H are unhappy Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions they 
have disputed on their current account.
Miss H holds a joint account with Mrs H, however the disputed transactions have been made 
with Miss Hs card so Ive focussed on Miss H throughout.
What happened
Upon checking her bank statement in May 2022, Miss H noticed several transactions she 
didnt recognise. She reported ten transactions to Nationwide totalling around £2,000. These 
transactions took place between 4 and 16 May 2022 and were mainly chip and personal 
identification number (PIN) payments with a couple of online card transactions and one 
contactless payment.
Nationwide didnt refund the disputed transactions. They said theyd sent a message to 
Miss H when the online transactions were made to see if she recognised them, she 
responded to say yes. The block was removed and the payments re-made shortly after. In 
response to the card payments they found they were made via Chip and PIN on various 
dates. Nationwide concluded that someone had to have been able to know the PIN, use the 
card, then get the card back in Miss Hs possession and then take it again. And whoever did 
this, would need to do it several times.
Miss H maintained she hadnt shared her card or PIN with anyone and referred her concerns 
to this service. She told us the total amount in dispute was around £3,000. Our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He found, on balance, Miss H had either 
authorised or consented to the disputed transactions.
As Miss H remained unhappy it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive considered all the information provided by both parties, I havent commented on 
all of it. This isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of our service.
As a general rule, Nationwide can hold Miss H liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests she authorised them. The disputed transactions on Miss Hs account 
were made up by Chip and PIN, online (using the card details) and contactless (using the 
physical card).
Near the start of the disputed transactions, 3 and 4 May 2022, there were two payments 
made where the card details wouldve been manually keyed in order to make the payments. 
One payment for £206.98 and one for £400. Nationwide blocked these payments and sent a 
message to Miss H to check she had made these payments. For both payments she 
responded to say she did recognise them, the block was then lifted to allow the transactions 
to be made. Later, once a claim had been raised, Miss H said she made a mistake, and she 
didnt recognise them. But if this were the case Id have expected her to have called 
Nationwide after responding to the messages to make them aware. 
It was following this the bulk of the disputed transactions were made, all but one of these 
were authorised via Chip and PIN including a cash withdrawal. Miss H said no one has 
access to her card which has been in her possession, and she hasnt shared her PIN with 
anyone. Shes also advised that she was working whilst most of the transactions took place.
Ive seen Miss Hs work rota but this doesnt show she was actually with a client during the 
times the transactions took place only the times she was scheduled to be there. There were 
no incorrect PIN attempts, so I find it unlikely that someone else, unaware of the PIN, carried 
out the transactions.
Ive also considered Miss Hs comment that the card couldve been cloned. But I find it 
unlikely in this situation. Its not generally thought possible to copy the Chip on a card, and 
our service hasnt come across any cases where we felt this was a likely explanation of what 
happened. I havent seen any evidence Miss Hs card was cloned. Im satisfied the 
payments were made using Miss Hs original card, the same one she was using for genuine 
payments around the same time.
And if someone had cloned Miss Hs card, I think its more likely theyd look to empty the 
account of money as quickly as possible rather than over a week or two. They would be 
looking to take what they could before being discovered, and a block put on the account.
Only one ATM withdrawal was made, considering thats the fastest way to obtain the money 
I think its likely more transactions wouldve been carried out this way, had a random third 
party got hold of Miss Hs card, or cloned it.
Miss H has said that the spending pattern was unusual, so Nationwide shouldve protected 
the account by blocking it. They had done this for some of the earlier transactions and they 
were approved by Miss H. And as almost all of the transactions were carried out using Chip 
and PIN, with no incorrect attempts or obvious pattern of fraud, its not something that would 
necessarily have flagged. But given that Miss H approved two earlier transactions, even if 
Nationwide had blocked the further transactions, I dont think it wouldve prevented this as 
the evidence suggests Miss H would likely have approved them.
There was one transaction that was contactless for £50. However, based on the fact that at 
the same time as this there was a £250 ATM withdrawal at the same location, Im satisfied 
the contactless payment wouldve been successful had it prompted a Chip and PIN entry, so 
Im not asking Nationwide to refund this.
Im aware Miss H has previously been a victim of identity theft, I can understand how 
distressing this can be. However, I dont think the manner in which these disputed 
transactions were made is necessarily linked to the identity theft. And it doesnt explain how 
these transactions had a successful Chip and PIN in stores where Miss H generally shops. 
Ive also considered whether Miss H may have been a victim of a scam and was tricked into 
making these transactions, but shes adamant that she didnt make these payments or 
recognise them.
On balance, based on the evidence, I think it more likely than not that Miss H authorised or 
consented to the disputed transactions so I cant fairly ask Nationwide to refund them.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman