DRN-3623780
The complaint
Mr S says the advice given and the arrangements made by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal), to switch his personal pensions into a Novia Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
and the investments recommended was unsuitable.
What happened
In 2014 Mr S was introduced to Portal for it to conduct a pension review. He accepted and in 
January information was gathered about his circumstances, objectives and matters such as 
his attitude to risk.
Portal issued a suitability report dated 21 January 2014 in which it identified Mr Ss 
objectives, were:
- Consolidation
- Improved performance
- Specific investment (move away from equity backed funds)
- Greater fund choice
- To be able to leave your benefits to family
- Continue making regular contributions into a new Aviva pension plan
Ultimately Mr S was persuaded to switch two of his personal pensions into a SIPP with 
Novia. His Legal & General (L&G) and his Phoenix Life (PL) plans. The transfer value of 
each pension was reduced to account for initial unit reductions and transfer charges. 
On 19 February 2014 his Novia SIPP received £2,769 from PL. And on 21 February £22,435 
was received from L&G. Portals initial advice charges of £1,260 were deducted. And by 31 
March 2014 the investments recommended had been made into 10 separate funds plus a 
cash account. Around 48.5% of his pension pot was placed in non-standard bonds.
Mr S, through his representative, complained to Portal in February 2021. He had several 
concerns, including about the cost of the new arrangement and the risks hed been exposed 
to. He didnt think Portal had adhered to the regulations it was supposed to when providing 
him with advice. He said the recommendations had been unsuitable.
Portal was unresponsive. It challenged the status of Mr Ss representative and didnt provide 
him with a final response letter. When he brought his complaint to this Service, it also failed 
to provide its case file. 
The Investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Mr S 
had the knowledge or experience to fully understand the switch of his pension or the 
recommended investments. Portal disagreed and provided its case file for consideration. 
The Investigator considered the evidence and said it hadnt changed his findings and 
conclusions. He also dealt with the matter concerning Mr Ss representative.
Portal failed to respond to the Investigators view. So, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to 
me to consider afresh and for a decision.
I should note that before proceeding to decide the merits of a case, an ombudsman will 
always keep matters of jurisdiction  this Services authority to review complaints  under 
review. Having done so, Ive concluded Mr Ss case is one we can consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ss case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portal for Mr S. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Portal. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Ss best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between his 
former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:
- Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
- Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? This 
could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate 
or the right to take benefits early.
- Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded attitude 
to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
- Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report.
The report contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS (unregulated collective investment scheme).
Even if the non-standard funds Mr S was invested in werent technically UCISs, they share 
similar characteristics including the high-risk nature of the investment, being illiquid, subject 
to counter-party risk and uncertain valuation. And I think these matters are relevant to my 
consideration.
Did Portal adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
There are several documents recently supplied by Portal relating to its transaction with Mr S 
that are important to my consideration, these include the Pension Options Personal Financial 
Questionnaire and its suitability report.
Portal had to obtain information from Mr S in order to understand essential facts about him. 
In order to advise him to switch his pension funds into the SIPP with Novia and facilitate 
investments in the funds it recommended it had to believe that:
- The service or recommended transaction met Mr Ss investment objectives (including 
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing and how long he wanted to invest for).
- Mr S was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
- Mr S had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.Portal hasnt met these obligations.
Mr S was 54 at the time of the advice. Its recorded he was the registered carer for his 
mother, and that he received jobseekers and carers allowance, totalling £412 per month. A 
detailed household income and expenditure analysis wasnt gathered. But the adviser 
summarised the position as Mr S having a small monthly net disposable income. 
Mr S owned his home with his mother. There was no outstanding mortgage. He also had 
£7,000 in savings. No other assets or liabilities were noted.
Mr S was said to have a chosen retirement age of 66. He had a small defined benefit 
pension through a previous employment, as well as his PL and L&G personal pensions. The 
former wasnt part of the switch recommended by Portal. The two personal pensions were 
worth around £25,400. He wasnt planning on taking tax-free cash (TFC) at the time.
Portals suitability report said Mr S wanted to consolidate his pensions, achieve improved 
performance, make specific investments, secure greater fund choice, ensure death benefits 
could be passed to his relatives and continue making pension contributions.
I dont find the objectives captured by Portal for Mr S to be a compelling set of reasons for 
switching. For example, he was only bringing together two small personal pensions which 
required little or no input to manage. Portal hasnt provided documentation showing what his 
L&G and PL pensions provided in terms of death benefits. And he wasnt planning to take 
tax-free cash or an income from his benefits any time soon.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr S about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for retirement. Switching a pension is a significant decision.
It was Portals role to discern what Mr Ss wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. It hasnt 
demonstrated that it did these things.
Risk appetite assessment 
I dont believe either party would dispute that Mr S wasnt an investment professional. He 
wasnt a sophisticated investor. Indeed, from the information gathered by Portal it seems he 
had little knowledge or experience of investing. This is important context when I consider 
what happened to him.
Portal conducted a risk appetite assessment for Mr S. It concluded he had a balanced 
attitude to risk. This was defined in the following terms:
Balanced investors typically have moderate levels of knowledge about financial matters and 
will pay some attention to keeping up to date with financial matters. They may have some 
experience of investment, including investing in products containing risky assets such as 
equities and bonds.
In general, balanced investors understand that they have to take investment risk in order to 
be able to meet their long-term goals. They are likely to be willing to take risk with at least 
part of their available assets.
Balanced investors will usually be prepared to give up a certain outcome for a gamble 
provided that the potential rewards from the gamble are high enough. They will usually be able to make up their minds on financial matters relatively quickly, but do still suffer from 
some feelings of regret when their decisions turn out badly.
Portal has shared a blank risk appetite questionnaire as part of its file for Mr S. This isnt the 
questionnaire he completed, thats clear because in its cover letter to the Investigator Portal 
cut & paste 6 responses to questions from the risk assessment it said it had conducted  but 
these dont marry up with the template.
Ive concerns about Portals approach. Not only has it provided the wrong questionnaire 
template, more significant it shared a small selection of Mr Ss responses to the form that 
was actually completed with him. That implies it has the full responses which its chosen not 
to provide this Service. And I note the bits it has shared represent around a third of the 
complete form. So, I find its assertions about the validity of its risk assessment exercise 
seriously compromised.
I think its more likely than not Mr Ss responses to the questionnaire wouldve revealed 
contradictions and tensions. In my experience thats normal, and it wouldve been Portals 
responsibility to tease these matters out to understand what his risk outlook really was. But I 
cant find a proper exploration of what underpinned its categorisation. Rather, it seems his 
answers were fed into a system and dealt with in a mechanical manner without enquiry.
Further, I dont think the risks of switching Mr Ss pension funds into a SIPP enabling the 
recommended investments were adequately weighed.
Portal recommended Mr S invest nearly 50% of his pension funds into non-standard bonds. 
These were described in the following terms:
Lakeview UK Investments PLC - Secured on a successfully trading UK Holiday village in 
Cornwall, England. The proceeds of this bond are being used by the developer to build new 
holiday villas and an apart hotel to satisfy the increasing tourist demand. The Bond term is 
five years with 11% interest paid annually in arrears and then every 3 months from year 2. 
70% of all sales will be held in escrow to pay back the loan interest and the loan.
Real Estate Investments USA PLC - Secured on US residential property (mainly in Florida, 
Chicago and Detroit) which is being bought back from banks, refurbished and sold to onward 
pre-determined investors. The Bond pays 15% per annum, paid annually in arrears and has 
a term of 5 years. All interest and capital is lent denominated in sterling so there is no direct 
currency risk.
Marbella Resort and Spa PLC - Secured on a site in the hills just above Marbella, where the 
Banyan Tree Hotel Group have signed a 25 year agreement to manage the hotel, their first 
in Europe. The funds are being used by the developer to complete the development of the 
hotel. The Bond term is 7 years with interest payments deferred for the first 2 years. Interest 
is paid from 36 months to year 7 at a rate of 7%. The loan is made in sterling so there is no 
direct currency risk.
Motion Picture Global Investments PLC - The Bond term is 10 years with interest payments 
deferred until year 3. Interest is paid at 30% in year 3 and 10% per annum thereafter. 
Security is provided by pre-sold film rights to distributors such as Sony and each film is 
protected by completion insurance. Directors and actors of such calibre as Ridley Scott and 
Nicole Kidman will be involved in each film commissioned. Loan is made in sterling and paid 
back in sterling.
Strategic Residential Developments PLC - The Bond term is for 5 years, with 11% paid 
annually in arrears. Loaned monies are used to source and purchase existing houses in the 
South of England with potential development plots within their grounds, using a sophisticated software programme, plots which will then be sold separately and developed. Security will be 
taken over these houses once purchased and released when sold.
Tambaba Developments PLC - The Bond term is 7 years with 11% interest paid annually 
deferred initially until year 2. Loaned monies will be used to develop the site completing 
infrastructure works and building villas and bungalows for mostly local purchasers at the 
Tambaba Country Club Resort in the state of Paraiba, North East Brazil. Security is taken 
over the Tambaba development site (minimum value of 150% of any loan) with all capital 
lent and paid back into sterling.
Im surprised that specific warnings such as those around counterparties, development and 
valuation uncertainty were not more clearly brought to Mr Ss attention. 
As well as creating a serious lack of diversification in how Mr Ss pension funds were being 
invested, Portal hasnt done enough to satisfy me that he was a sufficiently experienced or 
sophisticated investor to appreciate the risks he was taking on. And he had no experience of 
the specialist bond instrument.
Im also concerned that Mr Ss capacity for loss doesnt appear to have been thought 
through properly. Although Portal did consider this important aspect of Mr Ss circumstances 
in the suitability report, all Ive seen is a list of questions it said it asked him. But I havent 
seen the responses he gave. It simply states it thought he had reasonable capacity for loss.
From the fact-find exercise we know enough to conclude Mr S actually had little capacity for 
loss. He was reliant on benefits at the time and was caring for his mother. He had little by 
way of disposable income. He partly owned his home and had limited savings to fall back on. 
Although he had a small defined benefit pension, his retirement provisions were modest.
Its arguable Portal seemed more concerned with facilitating its recommendations rather 
than providing effective advice about what was in Mr Ss best interests concerning his 
valuable pension funds. Like the Investigator, based on what Ive seen, I think a more 
realistic assessment of his risk outlook was somewhere between cautious and balanced.
Penalties for switching, and fees and charges of the new arrangements
Firstly, Id note that after the switch, taking into account any unit reductions and transfer 
charges from Mr Ss ceding pension providers, together with the 5% initial adviser charge 
levied by Portal, he was left with a fund of around £23,000. These upfront costs represented 
a significant erosion of the pension pot being switched of about 9%.
Portal said the running costs of the Novia SIPP were significantly cheaper than those of his 
ceding schemes. According to the suitability report, hed have paid approximately:
- L&G: £22,493 x 0.95% + £3 per month = £249 per annum
- Phoenix: £2,860 x 1.25% + £1.67 per month = £55.75 per annum
Mr S was advised to proceed with ongoing advice, at 1% per annum, so the annual costs of 
his new arrangements would be approximately:
Novia SIPP: £23,039 x 1.5% = £345 per annum
These calculations are rough and ready, and they dont factor in any fund costs. But it seems 
clear that Mr Ss new arrangements would be more costly than what he had before. Portal 
shouldve been more transparent about this.
Further weaknesses with Portals advicePortal hasnt done enough to satisfy me that it effectively explored the options available to 
Mr S. It hasnt supplied a copy of the policy documents for his L&G and PL policies. So, I 
dont know what flexibilities his existing plans provided, in terms of switching between funds 
if hed wanted to take on more risk. If that wasnt possible, whether his pension provider at 
the time wouldve allowed him to switch to a more suitable product with no or reduced 
charges. And, as Ive already mentioned, I dont know what the death benefit provisions 
were with the ceding providers.
Portal was making a case to Mr S that the returns from his new arrangements would be such 
they would more than make up for the additional charges. I havent seen a copy of any 
illustrations showing the effect of the charges in his new pension arrangements on potential 
returns. Neither have I seen a comparison between his L&G and P&L pensions and his 
Novia SIPP portfolio, showing historic performance and potential net returns.
Further, Portals approach was weak in terms of helping Mr S to plan for his retirement. The 
fact-find indicated he was unsure whether hed have sufficient income to meet his retirement 
goals. But theres no evidence it sought to assist him in getting to the bottom of this 
fundamental question.
Overall, I dont think Portal shouldve recommended Mr S switch his L&G and PL pension 
plans into a relatively expensive arrangement providing him with ongoing advice, with a 
Novia SIPP and the investment funds it recommended, the bulk of which were above his risk 
appetite. I say this because of the flaws Ive found in its advice process; what it knew about 
his attitude to risk and capacity for loss; his lack of experience of the sort of investments it 
was recommending; and its lack of exploration of his income needs in retirement.
Portal was aware Mr S was being exposed to significant risks in the investments it was 
facilitating. It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Mr S might have difficulty getting 
access to his pension funds.
I think if Portal had given Mr S effective advice, he wouldnt have gone ahead with the switch 
from his personal pensions into the SIPP and the medium-high-risk portfolio it 
recommended. Its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against 
the recommendations received. I think its more likely than not Mr S wouldve opted to retain 
his L&G and PL policies.
To conclude I dont think the switch of Mr Ss personal pension funds into the Novia SIPP 
and the recommended portfolio of investments could sensibly be regarded as fair to him. As 
such I think Portal failed to meet the regulatory requirements when providing him with advice 
and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against Portal and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ss case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Portal Financial Services LLP responsible for.
If Portal had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Mr S wouldve switched personal 
pension funds into the Novia SIPP, and so he wouldnt have suffered the financial loss hes 
potentially facing. I think its most likely he wouldve left his pension where it was.So Portal Financial Services LLP needs to do the following.
1. Calculate a notional loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the switch of his pension 
funds from L&G and PL
Portal Financial Services LLP should obtain the notional value of Mr Ss previous personal 
pension plans with L&G and PL, as at the date of calculation. So, as if they hadnt been 
transferred to the Novia SIPP. It will need to obtain the value of the plans as previously 
invested.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then it should use a hybrid 
benchmark, using a 50/50 split of (i) the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index) and 
(ii) the average rate from fixed rate bonds. Im satisfied this is a reasonable proxy for the 
type of return that couldve been achieved if Mr Ss pension had remained invested in his 
previous plans.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. It 
should apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Portal should then find the current value of his SIPP, including investments and any cash 
held. Concerning the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
Im not aware of the detailed position regarding any additional contributions Mr S made to his 
SIPP. Similarly, I think he mayve withdrawn some benefits. After confirming the detailed 
position, then the value Portal obtains or the calculations it makes should assume these 
adjustments would still have occurred and on the same dates. 
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr Ss 
former personal pensions and the equivalent current value of his SIPP will be his basic 
financial loss that Portal needs to redress.
2. Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
To close Mr Ss SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised. To do 
this Portal Financial Services LLP should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its 
willing to accept as a commercial value for the investments and Portal can then pay this to 
take ownership of them.
If Portal is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, the value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where Portal has 
compensated Mr S fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask him to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investments. 
Any undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr S may 
receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the 
SIPP. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.3. Pay an amount into Mr Ss SIPP so that the value is increased by the loss calculated 
(resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax. 
If compensation is paid into Mr Ss SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension plan.
If paying compensation into Mr S s SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and/or the plan is closed and Portal Financial Services LLP takes on his 
investment, then it should pay him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should 
make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional deduction should be calculated using Mr S s actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 
20%. However, if Mr S wouldve been able to take TFC, the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Portal should also pay interest on any loss calculated from the date of calculation to the 
date of payment at 8% simple. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it 
should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
4. SIPP fees
If the investments arent removed from Mr Ss SIPP, and it remains open after compensation 
has been paid, Portal Financial Services LLP should pay him an amount equivalent to five 
years of future fees. This should allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be 
dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP.
If, after five years, Portal wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments under the investment, it must agree to pay any further future SIPP fees. 
If Portal fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr S should then have the option of trying to cancel the 
investments to allow the plan to be closed.
Portal should also provide details of its calculations to Mr S in a clear format.
Distress and inconvenience
I also think Mr S has been caused trouble and upset because of Portal Financial Services 
LLPs failings. His retirement planning has been disrupted. In recognition of this it should pay 
him a further £250.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. As such, I require Portal Financial Services LLP to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman