DRN-4035936
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about fees charged by Colbourne & Company in order to manage 
their investments. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr and Mrs C complained to Colbourne & Company when they heard they 
had stopped providing any regulated activities.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the service provided as their investments had fallen in 
value and they had been charged fees they say they didnt authorise. 
Mr and Mrs C asked for a refund of the fees they had been paying to Colbourne & Company 
to manage their investments.
Colbourne & Company didnt respond to the complaint so one of our Investigators looked 
into what happened. They also didnt receive any substantive response from Colbourne & 
Company so reached out to the platform provider of Mr and Mrs Cs investments for 
information.   
Our Investigator upheld the complaint saying that Colbourne & Company should repay a 
total of £3,800 worth of fees that had been charged. They had seen no evidence of an 
ongoing advisory service for which Mr and Mrs C were being charged. They thought it was 
reasonable to conclude that the fees were charged without justification and should not have 
been taken from Mr and Mrs Cs investments.
Colbourne & Company didnt respond to our Investigator, so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.
Our rules
When coming to a decision Ive considered the rules set down by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in the Dispute Resolution Sourcebook (DISP). These are the rules that give 
the Financial Ombudsman powers to resolve complaints.
Colbourne & Company have not replied to requests for information on multiple occasions. 
Nor did they respond to our Investigators view of the complaint explaining how they thought 
it should be resolved. 
One of the objectives of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve complaints 
informally and at the earliest possible stage, this is reflected in the rules:
DISP 3.5.1 The Ombudsman will attempt to resolve complaints at the earliest possible stage 
and by whatever means appear to him to be most appropriate, including mediation and 
investigation. 
The rules also allow me to reach a decision on limited information: 
DISP 3.5.9 The Ombudsman may: 
(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take into account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested
Im satisfied this rule applies here as Colbourne & Company have failed to provide the 
information requested. 
Alongside this the rules allow the fixing of time limits for a response:
DISP 3.5.13 The Ombudsman may fix (and extend) time limits for any aspect of the 
consideration of a complaint by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was first made aware of this complaint in early 2023. 
Colbourne & Company didnt respond to our information request nor our Investigators view 
of how things should be put right.
Im satisfied time limits for information requests were appropriately set and communicated 
with Colbourne & Company. Emails have been sent to the address declared on the FCA 
register for Colbourne & Company and we have previously received responses using those 
details.
Because of the non-cooperation of Colbourne & Company Im basing my decision on the 
information I have been provided with which is allowed under the rules: 
DISP 3.5.14 If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint, and
(2)Include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by that 
failure in any award which he decides to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C took advice from Colbourne & Company in 2016. Between January 2018 and 
July 2019 they were charged an advisor specified fee on seven occasions which ordinarily 
relates to advice being given by their adviser. Ive referred to this as an ongoing advisory 
fee throughout. 
Due to the non-response from Colbourne & Company I dont have a copy of the advisory 
service agreement so cant say exactly what service Mr and Mrs C were paying for. 
Id expect Colbourne & Company to have contacted Mr and Mrs C sometime between 2018 
and 2019 to discuss their investments and see if they were still meeting their needs  at a 
minimum, providing advice for which it appears they have been charged for. However Ive 
not seen any evidence this occurred and Mr and Mrs C say this never happened. 
The only transaction during the time the fees were being charged was a fund switch in 
June 2019. Theres no evidence about why this transaction took place and nor any proof the 
switch was initiated due to advice from Colbourne & Company. There was a fee of £1,000 
charged at around this time. Our Investigator didnt reasonably think there was any link between the fee and what 
happened as it represented around 12% of the value of the switch.  
Because of the lack of information from Colbourne & Company I cant say for certain what 
this fee was for. But looking at all the information I do have I think, on balance, the fee wasnt 
related to the fund switch. Ive also taken into account that the same amount was charged 
the following month when no switch took place. Because of this I think that particular fee 
needs to be refunded along with the others charged.
Ive considered everything Ive been provided with and also taken into account the failure of 
Colbourne & Company to provide any information. Having done so Im satisfied, on the 
balance of probabilities, Mr and Mrs C didnt receive the advisory service they were being 
charged for. 
By charging fees and not providing a service I think Colbourne & Company have not fulfilled 
their regulatory obligations and also not acted in accordance with the principles set out by 
the FCA. Therefore the total of £3,800 should be refunded to Mr and Mrs C.
The fees were taken from Mr and Mrs Cs investment by way of an auto-sell function where 
units were sold in order to pay the fees to Colbourne & Company. Mr and Mrs C have since 
moved their investments, so it isnt possible to replace those units from where they were 
taken.
I think the most fair and reasonable way of putting things right is to refund the fees to 
Mr and Mrs C allowing them to add the funds to their current investments if possible. 
Colbourne & Company should also pay 8% simple interest from the time each fee was 
charged until they are refunded. 
Mr and Mrs C have also been put to a level of distress and inconvenience by what 
happened. Our Investigator thought Colbourne & Company should pay £300 for the trouble 
and upset caused.
Ive considered everything that happened including the worry about what happened, the time 
and effort it has taken to get a resolution, and the overall effect this has had on 
Mr and Mrs C. Having done so I think Colbourne & Company should pay Mr and Mrs C £500 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I sent Colbourne & Company two emails explaining this and setting out my thoughts with 
deadlines for a response with any comments. I also reminded Colbourne & Company about 
our powers for setting time limits and our ability to come to a decision on limited information 
as Ive explained above. I received a one line email response with reasons for personal 
delays, but nothing to suggest why Colbourne & Company couldnt respond to the complaint 
or our requests for information.
Putting things right
Colbourne & Company should refund the following fees adding 8% simple interest from the 
date of each charge until the date of refund:
Amount Date of charge
£200 08/01/2018
£200 22/01/2018£400 27/06/2018
£500 29/01/2019
£500 02/05/2019
£1,000 11/06/2019
£1,000 01/07/2019
Colbourne & Company should also pay Mr and Mrs C £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Colbourne & Company should take the actions Ive outlined above in paying compensation 
to Mr and Mrs C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman