DRN-3899620
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Insurance Factory Ltd trading as Asda mis-sold him a pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J bought a pet insurance policy through an online comparison site. The policy was sold 
by Insurance Factory Ltd, an insurance intermediary whilst the actual insurance cover was 
provided by a different company.
When Mr J took out the policy, he thought the limit of cover was £5,000 for each condition. 
When he made a claim for his dogs cruciate ligament treatment, he was told the limit for that 
was £1,500.
Mr J complained that this limit hadnt been mentioned in the policy schedule or made clear to 
him at the point of sale. 
Insurance Factory Ltd said all the policy terms were available for him to review before 
purchase and he had ticked a box to confirm that he had read them. The limit of £1,500 for 
cruciate ligament treatment was set out on Page 5 of the policy under the heading Tables of 
Cover.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She thought the 
cover limits had been made sufficiently clear at the point of purchase.
As Mr J didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J bought the policy online and so far as I am aware, without any human interaction. As 
such, Insurance Factory Limited didnt recommend the policy to him. That means it didnt 
need to take steps to ensure the policy was suitable for him. What I need to decide is 
whether Insurance Factory Limited gave Mr J enough information about the policy so that he 
could make an informed decision about whether to buy it and if not, whether Mr J has lost 
out as a result.
So I have considered the information Mr J was presented with at the point of sale. He and 
Insurance Factory Ltd have sent us screenshots of what he would have seen when obtaining 
a quote. After the summary of cover (which didnt include the limit for cruciate ligament 
treatment) there was an option to See all benefits. If Mr J had opened that link, he would 
have seen the limit of £1,500 for cruciate ligament treatment.
Before proceeding with the quote, Mr J would have had to tick a box that said:
Please tick to confirm you have read the important Policy Information, Policy Wording and 
Insurance Product Information Documents and to confirm that you fully understand the 
policy youre buying. Please also read the Privacy Policy to learn about how your data 
might be used and the Terms of Business that regulate our business relationship with you.
With the paperwork sent to Mr J by email just after the sale was a link to a summary of the 
key information relating to the policy (the Information Product Information Document). On the 
second page under the heading Are there any restrictions on cover? it said:
Cruciate treatment is limited and up to £1,500 per leg.
In the same document Insurance Factory Ltd told Mr J that he had 14 days from the start of 
the policy in which he could cancel it and receive a full refund of the premium if no claims 
had been made.
With the same email Mr J was sent the insurance schedule. That set out a table of cover 
which included the benefit limit of £5,000. It said at the bottom:
This document is a summary and does not contain all benefits and policy terms. Please 
refer to your policy wording for full terms and conditions.
At the beginning of the policy document (also attached to the email) Insurance Factory Ltd 
said:
We encourage you to read this document to ensure that you fully understand what you are 
 and are not covered for.
On page 5 under Table of Cover it said there was £1,500 of cover for cruciate ligament 
treatment.
I appreciate that its not easy to read all the information and see all the links on a mobile 
phone. However overall, I think Insurance Factory Ltd provided Mr J with adequate 
information about the limit for cruciate treatment. Mr J chose to buy the policy on his phone 
and, unfortunately for him, it was his responsibility to read the information provided to make 
sure the policy was suitable for his needs. I am not persuaded that Insurance Factory Ltd 
mis-sold the policy to Mr J.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman